Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-2435-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
RAILWAY PROJECT
April 26, 1979
th                        bU  lbe eW     my  11 derw e b dbe   k    W     ak     .



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           zaire (Z)
Z 1                     0.5 SDR
Z I                     US$0.65
US$I                    z 1.54
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB    -   African Development Bank
CFL     -   Chemin de Fer des Grands Lacs
CFM     -   Chemin de Fer de Mayumbe
CFMK    -   Chemin de Fer Matadi-Kinshasa
CMZ     -   Compagnie Maritime Zairoise
DOTC    -   Department of Transport and Communications
GEEP    -   Economic Study and Planning Unit of DOTC
KDL     -   Chemin de Fer Kinshasa-Dilolo-Lubumbashi
KfW     -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
OPCF    -   OPEC Special Fund
ONATRA  -   Office National des Transports
OR      -   Office des Routes
RVA     -   Regie des Voies Aeriennes
RVF     -   Regie des Voies Fluviales
RVM     -   Regie des Voies Maritimes
SFD     -   Saudi Fund for Development
SNCZ    -   Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
VCZ     -   Vicizaire Railway



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:         Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ)
Amount:              US$20.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Re-lending Terms:   The proceeds of the credit will be relent by the
Republic of Zaire to SNCZ at 8 percent p.a., for
a term of 20 years, including 4 years' grace period.
Colenders:           Saudi Fund for Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau;
OPEC Special Fund; African Development Bank; Belgium;
United Kingdom; USAID.
Project              The Project consists of SNCZ's 1979-1982 investment
Description:       program and includes essential track rehabilitation,
equipment and operational improvements to increase SNCZ's
effective capacity to meet traffic demands. The project
finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210 km of track and
ballasting another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting
locomotives and 12 passenger coaches; (c) spare parts for
locomotives and wagons; (d) telecommunications, workshops,
data processing and service equipment; (e) extension of
Ilebo port facilities; (f) social infrastructure; and (g)
middle/senior technical and management staff training and
consultant services. The main sources of risk affecting
the project include lower than projected growth of mining
traffic over the next five years and slower improvements
in operational efficiency. Should these risks materialize,
the rate of economic return of the project would decrease
by about a third to 13 percent.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                          Local   Foreign   Total
in US$ million equivalent
Track upgrading and equipment       23.6      32.3    55.9
Locomotives and rolling stock          .6     12.9    13.5
Spare Parts                          2.2      28.0    30.2
Workshops and service equipment    1.5        10.0    11.5
Ilebo port                           2.3       3.1      5.4
Staff housing and clinics            5.0       2.1      7.1
Training and consultant services   1.5         2.5      4.0
Local Taxes                          3.7        -       3.7
Base Cost:                        40.4      90.8   131.2
Contingencies:
-  Physical                        0.4       0.4     0.8
-  Price                          14.8      14.7    29.5
Total Cost with contingencies:    55.6    105.9   161.5
Net of Taxes                      51.9    105.9   157.8
Financing Plan:
SNCZ                                51.9       -      51.9
IDA                                 -         20      20
Saudi Fund                          -         35      35
KfW                                 -         25      25
OPEC Special Fund                   -          7        7
AfDB                                -          9.6     9.6
Other (GOZ; UK; Belgium; USAID)   -            9.3     9.3
51.9    105.9   157.8
Estimated
Disbursements:                                               US$ Million
Bank FY         1980   1981   1982   1983
Annual Disbursements               0.5    2.5    9.0    8.0
Cumulative Disbursements           0.5    3.0   12.0   20.0
Rate of Return:      20 percent
Appraisal Report:   No. 1986-ZR dated April 25, 1979.
Map:                 Zaire - Transport Connections - IBRD 11253R1



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE FOR A
RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of US$20.0 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance the capital cost of the 4 year
(1979-1982) rehabilitation program of SNCZ. The proceeds of the Credit would
be relent to SNCZ for 20 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at
8 percent per annum. The Saudi Fund for Development will provide the equiv-
alent of US$35.0 million at 4 percent interest, repayable over 25 years,
including a 5 year grace period; the Federal Republic of Germany will provide
the equivalent of US$25.0 million at 2 percent, repayable over 30 years, in-
cluding a 10 year grace period. The African Development Bank will provide
the equivalent of US$9.6 million, at 8 percent interest, repayable over 15
years, including 4 years grace. The OPEC Special Fund will provide US$7.0
million at 4 percent interest, repayable over 19 years, including a 4 year
grace period. The terms of the Belgium, United Kingdom and USAID contribu-
tions are still to be confirmed.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Zaire in June 1976 and its report (No.
1407-ZR) was distributed on April 13, 1977. Another mission took place in
August 1978; its report is under preparation but its findings are incorporated
below. Country data are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and
the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated
at about US$130 in 1976, ranks among the lowest in the continent. Approxi-
mately one-fourth of its population of about 26 million live in urban areas,
and the population density is 11 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been
proceeding at a rate of 8 percent per annum, or about three times faster than
the growth of population. Although agriculture accounts for 16 percent of
GDP, it provides employment and income for more than three-quarters of the
population. The mining and mineral processing industry accounts for 20
percent of GDP; it has been traditionally the largest source of public revenue
and provides more than two-thirds of the country's merchandise exports.
4.        Zaire is rich in land, forestry, mineral and energy resources,
particularly hydropower resources, nearly all of which are grossly under-
exploited. Even in copper, its share of world "identified resources" (25
percent by some estimates) exceeds its share of world production and exports
(7 percent and 10 percent, respectively) by a wide margin. The traditional
constraints to the economic development of Zaire have been: (a) a shortage
of trained and experienced managerial and technical manpower, coupled with
a serious institutional weakness; (b) poor social conditions, particularly
with respect to nutrition and education; (c) the semi-landlocked location,



- 2 -
with a coast limited to 30 km on the Atlantic Ocean; (d) inadequate transport
network, which severely hampers marketing and communication; (e) a relatively
neglected agricultural sector; (f) heavy dependence on one export, copper,
which is subject to wide fluctuations; and (g) inadequate savings. These
constraints reinforce one another: for example, the inadequacy of transport
coupled with inadequately set or enforced farm prices dampen the farmers'
incentive to produce a surplus for the market; and the adverse impact of the
gyrations in copper prices has been accentuated by the institutional con-
straints to devise and implement appropriate policy responses.
5.        When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for
the change, both technically and institutionally. The first 6-7 years were
marked by violent political strife and a severe disruption of the economy, but
after the restoration of political order and stability in 1967, the gross
domestic product grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until 1974 -
the year which marks the beginning of Zaire's current difficulties. The
uninterrupted growth in GDP of the 1967-74 period was characterized, however,
by an accentuation of structural imbalances.  The bulk of investment was
allocated to the modern sectors (mining and manufacturing) and services
benefitting mostly the urban centers. Projects were generally capital-
intensive and contributed relatively little to employment. Agricultural
production expanded at less than half of the rate of GDP. The benefits of
growth accrued disproportionately to urban middle- and high-income groups,
while real wages began to decline. In November 1973, the Government announced
its decision to "Zairianize" the ownership of enterprises in key sectors,
which disrupted economic activity severely because of the poor way in which
the measures were implemented. Most importantly, the institutional framework
which had started to be put in place began to show signs of weakening in the
form of poor budgetary and foreign exchange management.
6.        The current crisis started in 1975 when GDP fell by 4.6 percent.
The decline in output was especially marked in commercialized agriculture and
manufacturing. In addition, the Government's current budget registered
a deficit of Z 70 million, the first since 1965, owing, in part, to the
cyclical downturn in copper prices. The latter caused the share of taxes on
international trade and transactions in total government revenues to fall from
an average of 63 percent during 1970-74 to some 50 percent in 1975. Reflect-
ing these developments as well as the overall decline in economic activity,
total tax revenues declined from about 30 percent of GDP during 1970-74 to 22
percent in 1975. The external accounts also deteriorated in 1975. Despite a
decrease in imports of 36 percent in real terms, the current account deficit
showed little improvement owing largely to a decline of 38 percent in the
terms of trade. In order to finance the large deficit, Zaire drew substan-
tially on its international reserves and accumulated arrears on external
payments relating to merchandise imports, debt service and invisibles totaling
about US$330 million. Pending a renegotiation of Zaire's external indebted-
ness with both official creditors and private banks, the authorities suspended
most debt service payments, and creditors and suppliers became increas-
ingly reluctant to continue external credits to Zaire. Furthermore, early in
the year the Government announced the nationalization of enterprises in
certain sectors in order to end abuses by the new Zairian owners. With some
exceptions, the management and consequently the finances of enterprises
deteriorated further. As a result, in late 1975, the Government announced its
intention to partly de-nationalize, i.e., return most enterprises to their
original owners.



- 3 -
7.        Faced with mounting difficulties, in early 1976, the Government
adopted a one-year stabilization program which, on March 22, 1976, was sup-
ported by a stand-by arrangement with the TMF. The program was design,ed to
reduce excess demand pressures and to permit a revival in economic activity
through a limit on wage increases, a considerable reduction in Governnient
expenditures in real terms, a limit on total credit expansion, the renegotia-
tion of the external public debt, and a commitment not to contract new foreign
loans in the maturity range of 1 to 10 years, except for the financing of
priority projects underway. Pending debt negotiations, the authorities were
also to set aside in a blocked account 10 percent of export receipts to meet
debt service payments. In addition, the program envisaged a reduction of
external payment arrears by about US$73 million during 1976. The policies
affecting wages, incomes, prices and bank credit to enterprises, as well as
the decision to set aside a portion of export receipts for meeting debt
service payments, were all broadly carried out. However, performance departed
substantially from the program targets in two major areas, namely, the govern-
ment budget and the allocation of foreign exchange. The overall budget
deficit, which was to be limited to Z 60 million, reached a record of Z 316
million, equivalent to about 9 percent of GDP. Imports declined by 10 percent
in real terms, with imports of essential goods shrinking disproportionately.
As a result, GDP declined by about 4 percent; unemployment increased; and
inflation accelerated to some 80 percent. The authorities introduced new
foreign exchange restrictions and new external payments arrears of about
$90 million accumulated, raising the outstanding arrears to $420 million at
the end of the year.
8.        In early 1977, the Government adopted another financial program
designed to reduce significantly the domestic rate of inflation and to ensure
at least a moderate recovery in economic activity. In support of this program,
on April 25, 1977, the 14F approved a one-year stand-by arrangement extending
into the third enlarged credit tranche. Given Zaire's very low level of
foreign exchange reserves and large short-term external commitments, the new
program aimed at limiting deficits in the balance of payments and the Govern-
ment budget. New tax measures (e.g., on coffee and petroleum exports) were
introduced and efforts to improve tax collection and to reduce public expendi-
tures by 20 percent were announced.
9.        The 1977 stabilization program had minimal impact in curbing the
rate of inflation and in improving economic activity. The index of consumer
prices in Kinshasa increased again by about 60 percent during that year.
Despite a recovery in mining production of 4.4 percent, GDP declined by
another 2.1 percent. The overall budget deficit attained Z 310 million, 77
percent more than the IMF target. This, moreover, took place by accumulating
Z 106 million in arrears instead of the reduction envisaged under the program.
The deficit was almost entirely financed by the Central Bank and was to a
large extent responsible for a 60 percent increase in the money supply.
Despite a sharp drop in imports, the overall balance of payments deficit in
1977 increased by about 30 percent and hit the US$500 million mark. In
addition to copper prices, contributing factors were the difficulty in repa-
triating export earnings especially from coffee, and a sharp drop in net
capital inflows. At the end of 1977, net international reserves were negative



-4-
by about US$33 million and outstanding external payments arrears, including
those on commercial credits and invisibles, amounted to about US$800 million
equivalent to about two-thirds of annual export receipts. Finally, with a
further decline in real wages, the Government found it increasingly difficult
to maintain the wage freeze. Because of the trends and performance in evidence
during the first six months of the program, Zaire was able to draw only US$6
million of the US$52 million available under the stand-by arrangement and the
arrangement was de facto suspended in November 1977.
10.       In 1978, domestic and external financial imbalances continued to grow
and economic activity continued to decline. GDP in real terms most probably
contracted again, possibly by 3 percent, due to adverse weather conditions,
the persisting shortage of inputs in the agriculture, industry and transporta-
tion sectors, and the fall in Gecamines' output resulting partly from the
events which took place in the Shaba provincq in May and partly from the
unattended rehabilitation needs of the company. The overall bugetary deficit
attained a record level of about Z 560 million, equivalent to a staggering
12.5 percent of commercialized (monetized) GDP, owing to a 40 percent increase
in current expenditures. Deficit financing, together with the worsening
shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel and intermediary products, pushed the
annual inflation rate to about 100 percent. Beginning November 1, 1978, the
Government devalued the zaire in four stages from the equivalent of SDR 1.0
to SDR 0.5. According to IMF estimates imports changed only marginally in
1978 and, despite a slight improvement, the overall balance of payments
deficit remained in the neighborhood of US$500 million. The deficit was
financed primarily by further accumulation of arrears (US$369 million on
external public debt, US$150 million on short-term commercial credits and
invisibles). Total arrears increased from about US$800 million at the end of
1977 to more than US$1.3 billion at the end of 1978.
11.       To alleviate the growing debt repayment difficulties, Zaire began
rescheduling negotiations with the Paris Club in late 1975. A first agreement
was reached in June 1976 under which the 11 Paris Club countries partici-
pating agreed to consolidate and reschedule over a 9-year period most unpaid
maturities due on their credits up to the end of 1976. The total amount of
the consolidation (US$211.3 million) wag equivalent to about 41 percent of the
total debt service payment due in 1976. A second rescheduling agreement was
reached in July 1977 with the same Paris Club countries for the consolidation
and rescheduling, also over a 9-year period, of maturities due on their
credits in 1977 (US$202.0 million) which amounted to 53 percent of total debt
service payment due in that year. The terms of debt relief extended to Zaire
in both 1976 and 1977 were generally harder than those provided in the recent
past to other developing countries.
12.       With respect to Zaire's obligations vis-a-vis syndicated non-
guaranteed bank loans, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed in London
on November 5, 1976 with representatives of 13 private banks. In accordance
with this Memorandum, Zaire has reportedly cleared interest payments in
arrears and falling due. It has also deposited a portion of the corresponding
principal payments in a special account. These funds wre to be released in



favor of the creditor banks immediately upon Zaire's becoming entitled to draw
under a US$250 million medium-term loan that Citibank N.A., one of the parti-
cipants in the London meeting, undertook to syndicate on a "best efforts"
basis. However, this loan has not materialized yet.
13.       Actual payments by Zaire of debt service increased during the early
seventies, reaching a peak of about US$190 million in 1974, equivalent to a
debt service ratio of 12.9 percent. Thereafter, they decreased steadily and
amounted to US$127 million in 1976 and US$117 million in 1977, representing a
debt service ratio of 11.2 percent and 9.4 percent, respectively. As a result
of the Paris Club reschedulings and the accumulation of arrears, the propor-
tion of debt service obligations paid declined from 61 percent in 1975 to 41
percent in 1976 and 31 percent in 1977.
14.       At the end of 1977, the external public debt of Zaire stood at
US$3,537 million of which US$2,623 million was disbursed and outstanding.
Most of the debt was incurred during the period 1973-75 when Zaire contracted
a total of US$2.6 billion in external loans to finance various manufacturing
and infrastructure projects, the latter primarily in the transport and energy
sectors. A large proportion of the loans committed in these years were in the
form of non-concessional private lending, including large Euro-currency loans
from syndicated bank groups (US$600 million). This contributed to a deteriora-
tion of the overall maturity structure of the debt. Approximately 60 percent
of the debt is owed to private lenders on commercial terms. Private bank
lending outstanding accounts for 39 percent of the total debt. More than half
the debt outstanding is projected to fall due before 1983.
15.       The most urgent issues facing Zaire concern:  (i) the need to stabi-
lize the economy in cooperation with the IMF; (ii) the need to clear external
debt arrears and meet debt service obligations; and (iii) the need to reverse
the decline in production, to raise productivity and to start new productive
investments. The resource constraints remain severe. Scheduled external
payments on long-term public debt are of the order of US$480 million per year
during 1979-80, implying an average debt service ratio of about 30 percent.
If no further rescheduling were to take place, and assuming that domestic
demand in real terms were to halt the decline of the last three years, gross
capital requirements, net of the pipeline on existing projects (about US$200
million per annum), would average about US$700 million per year in 1979-80.
An important element which weighs heavily on the future and has not been taken
fully into account in the above illustrative estimate is the substantial
rehabilitation needs of Gecamines, which predate the recent events in the
Shaba province.
16.       Zaire retains a significant potential in mineral resources, energy
and agriculture. Its difficulties of the last few years have been aggravated
considerably by exogenous factors such as the persistent weakness of copper
prices. The recent upsurge in copper and especially cobalt prices are en-
couraging developments for Zaire; however, significant difficulties in the
production of these metals have been encountered in the last few months.
Moreover, important domestic problems remains. Adjusting to the resource
constraints and other difficulties brought on by the crisis has been seriously



hampered by the overall weakness of institutions, the inadequacy of administra-
tive controls, especially with regard to the repatriation and allocation of
foreign exchange earnings and the monitoring of budgetary expenditures, and
the absence of a proper framework for economic decision-making.
17.       With the deepening of the crisis, the Government became increasingly
cognizant of these weaknesses and took a number of positive steps. The most
important of these were: (i) the installation of an expatriate deputy governor
as well as five technical advisers, all appointed by the IMF, at the Central
Bank; (ii) the appointment, by the UNDP, of an expatriate controller general
to the Ministry of Finance, who will also be assisted by a team of technical
experts; and (iii) a proposed reform of the Customs Service, including its
reorganization as an independent entity, the designation of an expatriate
Director, and the appointment of about 30 other expatriates to key posts.
18.       Among the initiatives taken by Zaire in the economic sphere in
recent years is the reversal of the zairianization/nationalization
measures of 1973-74. The so-called retrocession measures were implemented
quite fully in 1977 and, since then, the Government has reaffirmed through
various actions its commitment to expand the role of and reliance on the
private sector. Seven inefficient "commodity offices" have been dissolved;
agricultural producer prices have been raised; under a scheme of "development
conventions" an effort is underway to involve private industry in the rehabili-
tation of agriculture and related infrastructure; a new investment code has
been drafted in cooperation with the private sector and is expected to go into
effect soon; and a number of reforms have been initiated in the management of
state enterprises.
19.       The above actions by the Zairian Government have been accompanied
by still on-going process of decentralization whose recent manifestations
include the creation of an Economic Management Committee, chaired by the Prime
Minister and composed of key ministers. Most important, priority matters are
being discussed, whether revenue collection, customs reform, control of coffee
exports, revitalization of state enterprises, or management in general.
20.       In 1978, Belgium organized two ad hoc international consultations on
Zaire, with the support and participation of the Government. In the first one,
in June 1978, some donors announced modest amounts of commodity assistance,
Zaire was pressed to draw up a new stabilization program with IMF assistance,
and the Bank was asked to help Zaire prepare a three-year public investment
program. In the second conference, in November 1978, Zaire reported on the
additional reforms being undertaken in response to the first conference and,
together with IMF, emphasized the indispensability of substantial external
assistance to the success of a stabilization program. The IMF and Zaire
have recently reached tentative agreement on a stand-by arrangement, but the
agreement has not been finalized yet. The signature of the agreement may



be followed by a new meeting of the Paris Club, and may pave the way ior a
meeting of the Consultative Group, subject to the completion of an acceptable
public investment program.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
21.       From 1969 to date, Zaire has received 16 IDA credits totaling
US$201.5 million for transport, development finance company operations, water
supply, agriculture and education projects. The Bank has also extended grants
totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance
projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100 million for the
GECAMINES Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the European
Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided for
special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. The
IFC, which has a US$760,000 equity participation in the Societe Financiere de
Developpement (SOFIDE), the development finance company, approved a US$4.1
million loan for an offshore oil production project in September 1978. Annex
II contains a summary statment of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
as of February 28, 1979 and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
22.       As of December 31, 1977 the Bank Group's share of Zaire's disbursed
debt outstanding was about 2.7 percent and its share of current debt service
during 1977, 1.2 percent. Disbursements on IDA credits, which were slow for a
long time, have accelerated and amounted to US$114.5 million as of February 28,
1979. Disbursements on the US$100 million loan to GECAMINES amounted to
US$75.5 as of the same date.
23.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been insti-
tution-building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in
1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, Office
National des Transports (ONATRA), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVS), Regie des
Voies Maritimes (RVM), Bureau of Roads (OR), recovered technical and financial
assistance from the Association which also helped establish the National
Livestock Development Authority.
24.       While SOFIDE and the National Water Authority (REGIDESO) are execut-
ing projects in a satisfactory manner, implementation of other projects has
been poor due to the country's inadequate manpower and management capacity.
The first Education Project (1972) was delayed because of administrative
weakness, and had to be reduced in scope. Implementation of the three highway
projects has also been difficult, in particular because of logistical problems
resulting from the vastness of the country. In the last two or three years,
release of the required budgetary funds has been increasingly difficult. Lack
of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, deterioration of the
transport network and marketing system have also resulted in supply problems
for most projects. Finally, inflation has compounded the above problems to



-8-
increase project costs. Several projects have been revised or are about to be
revised, including the GECAMINES project, to reduce their scope and reduce
Government counterpart financing.
25.       In the past two years the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture, transport, and education sectors, in part through the design and
implementation of appropriate policies. In agriculture, IDA's assistance
focusses on coordinating and reinforcing the efforts made to reverse the
declining trend of agricultural output, decrease reliance on agricultural
imports, and promote the export of selected agricultural commodities. Invest-
ments in industry are also included in our program. A fourth highway project,
a fifth SOFIDE project and a smallholder maize development project were
appraised in 1977 and are scheduled for presentation to the Executive Direct-
ors in the coming months.
26.       A Consultative Group Meeting for Zaire was held in Paris from June
8-10, 1977. The Group expressed its concern about the shortage of Government
funds to execute ongoing projects and criticized the failure to assure
repatriation of the windfall profits on coffee. The Group strongly supported
the Government's intention to give highest priority to the development of
agriculture and decided to create a Working Group on Agriculture, chaired by
the World Bank. The first meeting of the Working Group took place in Kinshasa,
in March 1978 to review the Government 1978-80 Agricultural Development Plan.
The recommendations made by the Group were used by the Government in the
design of the public investment program for agriculture which is being
finalized. The Consultative Group may be reconvened after the Government
completes its public investments program and agrees with the DMF on an appro-
priate stabilization program.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
27.       Zaire's transport system is essentially based on its natural network
of about 14,000 km of waterways consisting of rivers and lakes, most of which
are navigable year round. In addition there are about 5,000 km of railways
which are mostly extensions of waterways and bypasses of their unnavigable
portions. The road network serves as a feeder network for the rail/river
trunk system, except in the northeast, where transport is mainly by road.
This is reflected2in Zaire's relatively low road density to total area (0.06
km of road per km ). Only 2,000 km of the 145,000 km of roads are paved.
28.       The most important rivers are the Zaire and Kasai, which combined
with their tributaries and several lakes provide navigable waterways serving
large parts of the country. There are about 70 inland ports, of which Kinshasa
on the Zaire river, and Ilebo, on the Kasai river are the main transhipment
points between river, rail and road traffic. Matadi is the only seaport



- 9 -
directly linking the rest of the country with the ocean and is situated on the
Zaire estuary about 150 km from the Atlantic. The rail-river transportation
system includes two major routes: (i) the "Voie Nationale", extending about
2,500 km from Shaba to the Atlantic, comprising the railway from Lubumbashi
to Ilebo (1,575 km), the Kasai river from Ilebo to Kinshasa (650 km) and the
railway from Kinshasa to Matadi (360 km). Total freight carried on the Voie
Nationale is about 650,000 tons annually, including about 50 percent of all
copper exports from Shaba; and (ii) the Zaire river, linking the northeastern
Haut Zaire region to Kinshasa and Matadi, carrying some 400,000 tons.
29.        The economically important Shaba province is linked to the sea via
three other major but external transport routes, all rail: (i) the Benguela
railway through Angola (closed to traffic from Zaire since 1975 but may become
operational once again by mid-1979) to the port of Lobito which used to carry
about 40-50 percent of Shaba's mineral exports as it is the shortest route
to the sea; (ii) the Zambia and Rhodesia railways to Mozambique (virtually
closed to Zairian traffic because of the political situation in Rhodesia and
Mozambique) and to South Africa, and (iii) the Tanzania-Zambia railway to Dar
es Salaam.
30.        Government responsibility for transport in Zaire is shared by two
Ministries (Departments). General responsibility for transportation, railways,
waterways and civil aviation lies with the Department of Transport and Commu-
nications, while responsibility for roads rests with the Department of Public
Works. Management of rail/river and road transport is handled mainly by three
autonomous parastatal agencies. The Office National des Transports (ONATRA)
is responsible for river transport and port operations and also manages the
Matadi-Kinshasa and the Mayumse railways. All other railways are managed by
the Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ). Both agencies are
under the Department of Transport and Communications (DOTC). The Bureau of
Roads -- established in 1971 within the Department of Public Works, with
assistance from UNDP and IDA -- has primary responsibility for road planning,
construction and maintenance.
31.        The development of Zaire's transport sector has faced several
constraints. At independence, its transport administration had inadequate
technical and managerial staff, a situation which still persists today.
In addition, the vastness of the country and an inadequate communication
system create substantial logistical problems for the execution of transport
projects. Poor organization and a lack of adequate equipment at the major
transhipment points of Kinshasa and Ilebo have increased transit times on the
Voie Nationale from about 2 weeks normally to more than 3 weeks, and occasion-
ally to more than a month from the southeast of Zaire to Kinshasa. Finally,
in recent years due to the difficult economic situation in Zaire, budgetary
funds and foreign exchange resources have been insufficient to purchase the
necessary spare parts and fuel, thus seriously affecting the capacity of the
river, railway and highway administrations.
32.        To improve the overall coordination of Government investments in the
transport sector, the planning division of DOTC was restructured and strengthened.



- 10 -
As a result of its data collection and analysis, more favorable conditions are
being created for preparing transport policies and transport sector investment
plans which are well balanced, address the priority needs of the sector, and
take into account the scarcity of resources. On the basis of proposals made
by this Department, Government prepared, in 1978, a three-year draft investment
program for the entire sector, which provides mainly for the improvement and
rehabilitation of existing facilities in rail-river and road transport. The
program aims at the improvement of important agricultural roads, the supply of
petroleum products to the interior, the exports of minerals, and the develop-
ment of urban transport. Total investment for this three-year period is
estimated at US$490 million. Generally, the program's objectives are sound as
they focus on improving existing capacity rather than on initiating new
investments.
33.       The Bank has attempted to assist the Government in the implementa-
tion of these plans and the strengthening of the transport administration
through institutional improvements and training of local staff. In connection
with this project, Government will establish an Operations Coordinating Unit
within DOTC to improve operational coordination between ONATRA and SNCZ,
specially at inter-modal transfer points, with staff, powers and duties
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.04 of the Development Credit
Agreement). The Bank has also played a crucial role in mobilizing consi-
derable amounts of cofinancing needed to cover the external financing require-
ments of priority investments in this sector.
Railroad Network
34.       SNCZ was established in 1974 to integrate and manage the five sepa-
rate companies that owned and operated the railways of Zaire. (i) The Chemin
de Fer Katanga - Dilolo - Lubumbashi (KDL) with about 2,400 km route length and
3 million traffic units, now constitutes SNCZ's Southern and Central Regions;
it was built over the past 50 years to support the development of Shaba's
mining industry. (ii) Chemin de Fer des Grands Lacs (CFL) with about 960 km
route length and 0.18 million traffic units, now constitutes SNCZ's Eastern
Region; its main function is to ensure communications, to supply imports and
to evacuate the agricultural production for Southern Kivu and offers an alter-
native outlet for Shaba's exports to the port of Dar es Salaam. (iii) Vicizaire
Railway (VCZ), with about 1,100 kms route length and 0.05 million traffic units,
now constitutes SNCZ's Northern Region; it was built as an extension of the
Itimbiri river system in order to reach the Uele and Ituri regions which have
high agricultural potential; it hauls imports to these regions and evacuates
agricultural products, mainly coffee, cotton and palm oil. (iv) Chemin de
Fer Matadi a Kinshasa (CFMK), connecting Kinshasa and the interior to Matadi,
the country's main international port, and (v) Chemin de Fer de Mayumbe (CFM),
connecting Boma and Tshela in the western end of Zaire. The last two railways
now constitute the Western Region of SNCZ and, continue temporarily under
ONATRA's management , in accordance with the terms of an agreement made at
IDA's request to avoid delays in implementing parts of the Rail/River Trans-
port Project financed by Credit 571-ZR.



- 11 -
Organization, Management and Training
35.       SNCZ is headed by a Delegue General (DG) directly responsible to
the Minister of Transport and Communications. He is assisted by three senior
officials - one each for engineering, operations, and administration. For
operational purposes, SNCZ is divided into four regions (southern, central,
eastern, northern) with each Regional Manager responsible for all operations
within his region. SNCZ's management is heavily dependent on expatriate staff
at both senior and middle levels. Both the DC and two of his three deputies
are expatriates. There are altogether some 180 expatriates in SNCZ down to
the foreman level, most of them belonging to the permanent staff. The number
of expatriates needed will be halved in five years' time as a result of SNCZ's
training programs.
Track, Signalling and Port Facilities
36.       (i) Track:  SNCZ operates 4,627 km of main line single track rail-
way and some 100 km of industrial sidings. Some 851 km of track located in
the mining district in the southern region (Lubumbashi-Tenke-Kamina and Tenke-
Mutshatsha sections) is electrified. The gauge is 1,067 mm except for the
Ubundu-Kisangani section in the eastern region (1,000 mm) and the northern
region (600 mm). Most of the rails (3,100 km) on the 1,067 mm track are 29
kg/m and were laid during 1924-1930, with some renewals in the 1950's and in
the 1970's. Only about 600 km of track has 40 kg/m rail most of which is 25
years old. The 1,000 mm track has 24 kg/m rails and the 600 mm track has
mostly 18 kg/m rails, almost all over 50 years old. The rails on more than
1,100 km of track between Luena, south of Kamina, and Ilebo are badly worn.
As this section also has a large number of curves with radius of 200 m or
less, derailments are frequent and, in spite of speed restrictions, they are
increasing in number. Steel sleepers are used all over the network except
for 200 km with wooden sleepers and 10 km of test track for concrete sleepers.
Most of the steel sleepers are over 50 years old and are now in poor condi-
tion. (ii) The signalling system in the southern, central and eastern re-
gions, except for the Kisangani-Ubundu section, is key-token. The other
sections have a train order system. The system is old and spare parts are
becoming difficult to obtain. SNCZ has ordered a centralized traffic control
(CTC) system for the Likasi-Tenke section, to be in operation later in 1979.
This is the first phase of a CTC system for the electrified sections of the
network, to be completed as traffic warrants.  (iii) Ports:  SNCZ operates two
major ports, at Kalemi on Lake Tanganyika and at Ilebo on the Kasai river.
The port at Kalemi links SNCZ to the Tanzania Railway system, the port of
Ilebo links SNCZ to the ONATRA rail/river system and the port of Matadi.  The
bottleneck in the transport system to Dar es Salaam is the effective capacity
of the Tanzania Railway. Some 18,000 tons of goods, mostly copper and zinc,
are awaiting shipment from Kalemi to Dar es Salaam. The port of Ilebo has an
annual capacity of about 450,000-500,000 tons allowing for fluctuations in
river and weather conditions. The main problems at Ilebo are poor staff
productivity, delays in the movement of barges and wagons, and lack of con-
tainer handling facilities and storage areas for containers. Its capacity
cannot be increased significantly without extension of the quay, rebuilding
of the railway yard and provision of additional loading facilities.



- 12 -
Motive Power, Rolling Stock and Workshops
37.        (1) Locomotives:  Except for three steam locomotives in the northern
region, SNCZ motive power is diesel and electric. All 56 main line electric
locomotives are in good condition, although 20 are 20 years old or more; they
had high availability in 1976 (85%), but low utilization due to the decline
in Zambian (transit) copper traffic. Of the 97 diesel main line locomotives,
only 8 are more than 20 years old and 81 less than 10 years old, but many of
them are out of service due to lack of spare parts, which has resulted in low
availability (56%) and high utilization. The 65 diesel shunting locomotives
are also affected by lack of spare parts; their availability is, however,
somewhat higher (64%). Only 4 shunting locomotives are more than 20 years old
and 56 units less than 10 years old. The shunting locomotives are generally
in good condition. (ii) Rolling Stock: SNCZ has about 5,300 freight wagons
in service, including privately owned ones, and operates a further 300 Zambian
wagons. Of its fleet, 2,400 wagons are 20-35 years old and 1,400 wagons more
than 35 years old. About 800 wagons are in poor condition, 3,400 in accept-
able condition, and 800 in good condition. The availability of the wagons is
82%; this could be higher but for continued use of friction rather than roller
bearings and lack of spare parts generally. SNCZ has 338 passenger and
service coaches and 30 motor coaches and trailers. Of the passenger coaches,
250 are more than 20 years old, but most of them are in acceptable condition.
The 30 motor coaches, all less than 10 years old, are in good condition.
(iii) Workshops. The workshops are well run and their work is good. The
wagon workshop in Lubumbashi is building bodies for ore wagons and rebuilding
old freight wagons. The only work which the workshops do not presently
perform is repair of transformers and traction motors, which is subcontracted
to a workshop in Likasi owned by the Belgian locomotive manufacturer, ACEC.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.        A staff appraisal report entitled "SNCZ Railway Project"
(No. 1986-ZR, dated March 30, 1979) is being circulated separately. A
supplementary project data sheet is provided as Annex III. The project was
prepared by SNCZ and appraised in November/December 1977. Negotiations were
held in Washington, in February 1979. The Government delegation was led by
Mr. Baudour, Deputy Director General, SNCZ. Representatives from the Saudi
Fund and AfDB attended the negotiations.
Background and Purpose
39.        Zaire's most pressing transport problem is to provide a reliable
means of transport between the mineral-producing Shaba region in the south-
east and deep-water port facilities for both the export and import of the
mining industry's requirements. The only route located entirely in Zaire
is the 2,500-km-long "Voie Nationale" which connects Shaba to the port of
Matadi. Because of the uncertainties associated with the use of foreign
routes, the Government has become more committed to greater use of the Voie
Nationale through improving the operation of existing facilities and through



- 13 -
investments to increase capacity at points in the chain where bottlenecks are
likely to arise. The Bank is currently assisting Zaire in improving capacity
and operations on the rail line between Matadi and Kinshasa and in the reha-
bilitation and improvement of river transport on the Kasai and Zaire rivers.
It is also helping to finance studies for the improvement and expansion of the
Matadi and Kinsliasa ports. The present project focuses on the last major link
of this system by rehabilitating and strengthening the capacity and operations
of SNCZ on the Voie Nationale section of its network, including Ilebo port.
40.       Although it is technically possible to convert the Voie Nationale
artery into an all-rail connection, thereby eliminating river transport
and two transhipments between Shaba and the Atlantic Ocean, the very high
cost of the investment required, relative to the volume of traffic expected to
move on the Voie Nationale in the next few years, make the project of question-
able economic merit and its financing doubtful. Therefore, for the near and
medium term future, a commitment to transport greater volumes over the Voie
Nationale should be based on (a) more efficient utilization of existing
infrastructure; (b) the maintenance, rehabilitation and modernization of this
infrastructure as and when required; and (c) selective investments to increase
capacity in line with the growth of traffic on the Voie Nationale.
Project Description
41.       The proposed project comprises SNCZ's most urgent investment require-
ments for the years 1979-82 and is an integral part of its long-range program
for track rehabilitation and operational improvements. It will enable SNCZ
to maintain line capacity at required levels and to increase fleet utiliza-
tion and thus effective capacity to meet traffic demands. These objectives
will be achieved by:
(a) renewing and upgrading 210 km of track and ballasting
another 285 km; providing for the construction of a con-
crete sleeper plant and related track maintenance and
service equipment;
(b) purchasing 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting locomotives and
12 passenger coaches;
(c) providing spare parts to improve maintenance and avail-
ability of locomotives and rolling stock;
(d) improving maintenance, handling, telecommunications and
data processing facilities;
(e) extending Ilebo port facilities;
(f) training of Zairian staff at middle and top management
and technical levels;



- 14 -
(g)  providing consultant services to determine the economic
availability of domestic timber for sleeper manufacturing
and to assist SNCZ with the establishment of a traffic
costing unit; and
(h) construction and rehabilitation of housing and related
social infrastructure for workers.
Project Implementation and Operational Targets
42.       SNCZ will have direct responsibility for execution of the project
and is competent to do so. The project is based on a program to improve
operational efficiency on the basis of specific targets relating to locomotive
and wagon availability and productivity, wagonload and turnaround time, and
staff productivity (Section 3.04 and Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement).
Detailed Features
43.       Track.  About 65 percent of the rails in the southern and eastern
regions are more than 45 years old. Rail on more than 700 km of the main
section from Lubumbashi to Ilebo has deteriorated close to the limits of safe
train operation and speed restrictions have been imposed on about 200 km of
this section. Sleepers and fasteners are also badly worn. The project pro-
vides for upgrading the worst 210 km of this section and ballasting another
285 km of track. The project also provides for the construction of a concrete
sleeper plant and for related track and service equipment if the utilization
of wooden sleepers is determined to be uneconomic. Should the plant not be
needed, we expect the funds to be reallocated for other priority items.
44.       Locomotives and Rolling Stock.  (i) The projected increase in
traffic will require a few more shunting locomotives, in addition to the
anticipated increase in shunting locomotive availability as a result of
operational improvements. The present number of line diesel locomotives is
sufficient to meet long haul traffic needs, provided the expected increases in
availability and utilization are realized. (ii) It is estimated that, after
allowing for some operational improvements, SNCZ will require about 570 hopper
wagons, or 100 more than its present fleet. Wagons used in the ore traffic
are on the average loaded close to their maximum capacity and their turnaround
time is a low 3.7 days. Improvements in average load and turnaround time
cannot release sufficient capacity needed for the expected increase in ore
traffic by 1983. Finally, (iii) the 12 additional passenger coaches financed
by the project are provided to handle the increase in passenger traffic
projected at 3 percent per year. Passenger coaches at present have high
utilization, with average seat occupancy of about 80 percent, with over 100
percent occupancy being quite common.
45.       Spare Parts.  The lack of spare parts arising from the country's
critical balance of payments situation has constrained the availability of
main line diesel locomotives to 56 percent and has adversely affected the
proper maintenance and repair of SNCZ's rolling stock and other assets. The
provision of spare parts will increase the availability of locomotives to
75 peflegnt angfilon restore SNCZ's rolling stock and other assets to proper



- 15 -
46.       Workshop, Telecommunications and Data Processing Equipment and
Facilities. To help further improve servicing and maintenance of locomotives
and rolling stock, the project provides for the extension of the Likasi depot,
the replacement of oxygen plant, purchasing of machine tools for the workshops,
and handling equipment. Provision is also made for the establishment of a
data processing center and for improving SNCZ's telecommunication facilities.
47.       Ilebo Port.  In order to improve efficiency and to handle projected
traffic growth, the project provides for extension of the quay by 300 m, a new
warehouse, container facilities and other cargo handling equipment. This will
increase the capacity of the port from about 450,000 tpy to 650,000 tpy by
1983.
48.       Training Program.  The first phase of a program to train Zairians
at middle and senior technical and management levels for taking over all
responsibility of SNCZ's management and operations within the next ten years
is included in the project. This program includes: (i) the training of a
sufficient number of Zairians at upper technical and managerial levels to meet
SNCZ's requirements for qualified staff in engineering, systems analysis,
financial analysis, economics and administration; students would be trained
in Zaire and abroad, with foreign railroads and through postgraduate univer-
sity studies, for about two years; (ii) short term on-the-job training to
upgrade the quality of middle management staff including track and workshop
foremen, station masters, accountants and EDP staff; and (iii) on-the-job
training for engineers and technicians. A detailed training program along
these lines is being prepared by SNCZ and is expected to be submitted to the
Association shortly.
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$157.8
million equivalent, including a foreign exchange component of US$105.9 million
equivalent. The proposed US$20 million IDA credit will finance about 13
percent of the project's total cost. The local cost of the project amounting
to US$51.9 million equivalent, plus US$3.7 million equivalent in local taxes,
will be financed by SNCZ from internal resources. Provision for price in-
creases after the mid-1978 base period amount to US$29.5 million or 22 percent
of base cost estimates plus physical contingencies of US$0.8 million.
50.       In addition to the proposed IDA credit for US$20.0 million equiv-
alent, the Saudi Fund for Development (SFD) is expected to provide the equiv-
alent of US$35.0 million at 4 percent interest, repayable over 25 years,
including a 5-year grace period, to finance about half of the project's track
component, 9 diesel shunters, part of spare parts and handling equipment and
all social infrastructure. The Federal Republic of Germany would provide a
credit of US$25.0 million equivalent, at 2 percent interest, repayable over 30
years, including a 10-year grace period, to finance a concrete sleeper plant,
100 hopper wagons and parts of the track, spare parts, and data processing
center. AfDB would provide a loan of US$9.6 million equivalent, at 8 percent
interest, repayable over 15 years, including 4 years of grace, to finance the
Ilebo port component, machine tools, and part of spare parts requirements.



- 16 -
The OPEC Special Fund would provide US$7.0 million, at 4 percent interest,
repayable over 19 years, including 4 years of grace, to finance parts of the
track and spare parts components. The remaining external financing gap
(US$9.3 million equivalent) will be met by Government and other bilateral
sources (e.g. Belgium, UK, USAID). The terms of these bilateral contributions
are still to be confirmed. The relending terms to SNCZ of the IDA credit
would consist of a repayment period of 20 years, including 4 years of grace,
with an interest rate of 8 percent per annum. The project would be cofinanced
on a parallel basis. SNCZ would bear the foreign exchange risk of its borrow-
ings. It is a condition of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement that all
conditions precedent to disbursements under the loan agreements between the
Government and the Saudi Fund, AfDB, OPEC Special Fund and KfW, for parts of
the project to be financed by those institutions, except the effectiveness of
the IDA Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled (Section 5.01(b) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement) and that the onlending subsidiary loan agreement
between Government and SNCZ would have been signed (Section 5.01(a) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
Forecast of Future Traffic
51.        Future traffic on the SNCZ network depends on the growth of mining
activities in Shaba, the general level of economic activity in Zaire and
developments in neighboring countries. With respect to mineral traffic, the
long range planned expansion program of Gecamines and the other mining con-
cerns is expected to bring about an increase in mining export traffic from
about 600,000 tons in 1977 (through the Voie Nationale and foreign routes) to
about 900,000 tons by 1987. Local mining traffic will increase in step with
the increase in the production of copper and other minerals from some 1.8
million tons in 1977 to some 2.9 million tons in 1987. Furthermore, if the
Zairian manganese ore exports, which amounted to about 300,000 tons/year until
1975, and the (copper) transit traffic from Zambia resumes as a result of the
reopening of the Benguela railway and Lobito port, then SNCZ would carry an
additional 600,000 tons per year to the Benguela Railway.
52.       General cargo traffic is projected to increase gradually over the
next ten years. General cargo import traffic is projected on the whole to
grow modestly. Domestic general cargo traffic, which is composed of agricul-
tural produce and cargo such as gravel, cement, building materials, sugar and
beer, is projected to grow at the rate of 3 percent per annum. Passenger
traffic is expected to continue to grow at some 3 percent per annum on average,
from 2.6 million passengers transported in 1976 to 3.6 million in 1987. This
is in line with the country's population growth and reflects the demand for
work-related travel. Service traffic should start growing again in view
of the renewed emphasis on track maintenance and the initiation of a track
renewal program under this project. A service traffic level of 500,000 tons/year
is projected to be achieved from 1981 onwards.
53.       Finally, in view of the uncertainties surrounding the other routes,
the Government has adopted a policy aimed at providing transport facilities
for an increasing share of imports and exports via the Voie Nationale, to
ensure greater Zairian control over its vital export routes to the sea. SNCZ
will benefit from carrying larger volumes on its longest section and the
shippers will benefit from added independence and assurance for international



- 17 -
transport of both imports and exports to and from Shaba. Traffic projections
for the project are based on the following assumptions: (i) traffic via the
southern and eastern routes to the port of Dar es Salaam would stabilize at
about current levels; (ii) the Angolan and Mozambique routes, when reopened,
would not lead to a net reduction in the volume of traffic carried on the Voie
Nationale. Traffic flows on the Voie Nationale would double from 1977 to
1987.
Financial Performance
54.       SNCZ's financial performance has been poor since its creation
as a result of a number of factors. First, while the ex-KDL which accounts
for over 90 percent of SNCZ's traffic has been a fairly profitable and effi-
cient entity, the VCZ and CFL lines which were merged into it have been oper-
ating at a deficit; in 1974, their revenues did not even cover their cash
operating expenditures. SNCZ has a single tariff structure for all its lines
but, even if it were to discard this policy, the tariff increase required
to make the losing lines financially sound might well exceed what would be
socially acceptable, since there is no alternative to rail transportation
on most of these routes. It was agreed that SNCZ, in cooperation with
the Planning Office (GEEP) of DOTC, will study the future of its low-density
sections and will discuss its findings with IDA no later than December 31,
1979 (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement).
55.       A second series of factors which has adversely affected the finan-
cial performance of SNCZ is a decrease in traffic following the closing of
the Angola border in mid-1975 (Zambian transit traffic generated about a
quarter of SNCZ's revenues in 1974) parallel with the decline in economic
activity in Zaire. The resultant decline in operating efficiency was aggra-
vated by the shortage of spare parts due to the unavailability of foreign
exchange and by an increase in operating expenses as a result of heavy infla-
tionary pressures. Although domestic inflation exceeded 60 percent per
annum, SNCZ was able to limit its increase in cash operating expenditures to
15 percent per annum between 1976 and 1978. On the other hand, the devalua-
tion of the zaire in 1976 led SNCZ to revalue its assets and resulted in a 47
percent increase in operating costs because of the increase in the provision
for depreciation and in fuel and spare parts. As a result of all these
factors and in delays in tariff adjustments, SNCZ has suffered heavy losses
after providing for depreciation. SNCZ is authorized by Government to offset
taxes due (import duties, property and payroll taxes) against this loss.
Taking into consideration the impact of the January 1979 devaluation on
foreign exchange costs, it was estimated that a 75 percent tariff increase
was immediately needed to offset the current loss. Subsequently, Government
approved, effective March 1, 1979, an increase in freight tariffs by 80
percent and in passenger tariffs by 50 percent, or by 76 percent overall.
56.       A thorough analysis of SNCZ's financial performance would require
an analysis by region and by type of traffic to assess on which specific
services losses are incurred. However, SNCZ's present accounting system
identifies its revenue and expenses by location and general category, but
provides little guidance for designing tariffs, since costs and revenue



- 18 -
of specific transport services are difficult to isolate. Consequently, in
1979, SNCZ set up a Traffic Costing Unit, as part of the reorganization of its
accounting system.  Furthermore:  (i) Government will establish, as a condition
of effectiveness, a Tariff Commission to periodically review the level and
structure of SNCZ's tariffs;-the Commission will include representatives of
the Ministries concerned (Transport, Finance, Portfolio, National Economy,
Agricuture, etc.) in addition to SNCZ and its main users (Section 5.01(c) of
the Development Credit Agreement); (ii) Government subsidies will be limited
to losses on non-profit-making services provided specifically on Government
directives (Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement); (iii) SNCZ's
payments to suppliers will be promptly remitted by the Bank of Zaire and SNCZ
will not have to meet any additional charges arising from delayed transfer
(Sections 3.01(d)(i), 3.01(d)(ii) of the Development Credit Agreement); and
(iv) Government will allocate to SNCZ at least US$10 million equivalent per
year in foreign exchange to secure the spare parts needed following completion
of the project (Section 3.01(d) (iii) of the Development Credit Agreement).
57.       The internal financial rate of return of the project over the next
10 years would be 20 percent compared to the "without project" case. SNCZ is
still expected to incur operating losses in 1979, but its finances would be
restored to a satisfactory position in 1982 and would improve substantially
over the projection period. However, SNCZ's financial recovery is contingent
upon its ability to adjust tariffs promptly for inflation. To ensure SNCZ's
financial viability, and meet its cash requirements, it was agreed with the
Government and SNCZ that tariff increases and other measures will be imple-
mented to produce a minimum return of 3 percent annually on the current net
value of its fixed assets from 1981 onwards (Section 3.02(a) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and Section 4.05 of the Project Agreement). During the
projection period, SNCZ's debt/equity ratio will remain satisfactory and its
ratio of current assets to current liabilities is expected to be well above 1.
Debt service coverage is satisfactory with a minimum of 3.0 over the projection
period. It was agreed that SNCZ will not incur any further debt if the debt
service coverage is forecast to fall below 1.5 (Section 4.04 of the Project
Agreement). If the annual cash surpluses exceed SNCZ's needs, it will
pay to the Government the net profits as specified in the law creating SNCZ.
58.       SNCZ's cash situation remains excellent throughout the projection
period and it would be able to finance without difficulty investments which
may be needed beyond 1983. The cash balance is expected to increase from
Z 5 million in 1978 to Z 200 million by 1983, because about one third of its
operating expenditures (for depreciation) do not constitute an outlay of cash.
However, in order to safeguard SNCZ's cash position, it was agreed that until
the project is complete SNCZ will not undertake any investments outside the
project, in excess of US$1.0 million equivalent in any one year, without the
agreement of IDA (Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement).
Procurement
59.       Equipment and material financed by the Association will be obtained
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guide-
lines except for: (a) small orders for under US$50,000 each, but for not



- 19 -
more than US$500,000 in total; and (b) critical spare parts which are available
only from the original equipment manufacturers. These items will be procured
through selective competitive bidding. The amount involved is estimated at
about US$2.0 million.
Disbursement
60.       Excluding unallocated contingencies, the proceeds of the Credit will
be disbursed as follows on contracts financed by the Association (Schedule 1 of
the Credit Agreement):
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for track
material and quarry equipment or 75 percent of
imported equipment procured locally (US$6.0 million);
(b)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for passenger coaches
(US$3.0 million);
(c)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for spare parts,
or 75 percent if purchased in Zaire (US$4.0 million);
(d)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for a data processing
center (US$1.5 million);
(e)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for training and
consultant services (US$2.5 million).
Economic Benefits and Justification
61.       Unless the Voie Nationale is able to meet the demand for transport
of the southern half of Zaire, more extensive use will have to be made of the
railways of neighboring countries. A comparison of the rates paid for trans-
port over these foreign routes and the cost of transport on the national route
indicates that substantial economic savings can be achieved by increasing the
proportion of shipments via the Voie Nationale. The economic cost of tariff
payments associated with the use of foreign railways is estimated at about
US$105 per ton, on the average. The economic cost to Zaire of transport via
the Voie Nationale is estimated at about US$78 per ton. Thus, on the basis
of present traffic forecasts, from 1982 onwards, a minimum saving of US$2.7
million per year will be generated. These savings, in addition to the other
savings generated by the components mentioned below, yield an overall economic
return of 19 percent on project investments. The economic rate of return on
track related investments is estimated at 20 percent as a result of generating
savings in derailment and maintenance costs, and in the number of locomotives
and rolling stock needed due to train delays. Spare parts and workshop and
service equipment yield economic rates of return of 30 percent and 26 percent,
respectively, as a result of increasing the number of locomotives and rolling
stock available for service. The economic costs and benefits of the project
were estimated by applying a shadow rate for foreign exchange of twice the
official rate, and projected over the estimated average useful economic life
of 25 years for the proposed investments.



- 20 -
Risks
62.       There are two possible sources of uncertainty surrounding the out-
come of the project. The first relates to the growth of total Shaba traffic:
if expansion plans for mineral projects already under implementation are
delayed by up to five years in realizing the full additional production
planned, the economic return on the project will only decline from 20 to 16
percent. The second cause of uncertainty arises from the possibility that
the targets set for the improvement of operational efficiency would not be
achieved as planned; in this case, the economic return on the project would
decline to about 13 percent, which is still satisfactory. The reopening of
the Lobito route is not expected to divert traffic from the Voie Nationale but
would: increase total traffic carried by SNCZ as a result of transit traffic
from and to Zambia; allow the export of Zairian manganese ore and absorb
some Zairian traffic diverted from the eastern and southern (foreign) routes.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Zaire
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
SNCZ and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
65.       Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be:
(a) all conditions precedent to disbursements under the loan
agreements between Government and the Saudi Fund for Develop-
ment, AfDB, OPEC Fund and KfW for parts of the project to be
financed by those institutions would have been fulfilled other than
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement (Section
5.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement); and
(b) the subsidiary loan agreement between Government and SNCZ
would have been signed (Section 5.01(a) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
(c) that Tariff Commission would have been established
(Section 5.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 26, 1979



- 22-                                                    Annex I
TAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEZT                            Page  1  of  7
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ZAIRE                                                  Lat
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. iKM.)                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           2345.4                                                  SAME        SANE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTJRAL     326.2                                 OST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE ib       REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  60.0        90.0     130.0           223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUttPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EAUIVALENT)     87.0        81.0      78.n            86.7        88.9       251.7
POPBLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       16.6        21.6      26.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.7        21.6      26.4            13.6       15.C        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        7.0         9.0      11.0            18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. Rl. AGRICULTURAL LAND     52.0        67.0      80.0            53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTaRE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.7        44.4      44.2            44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                        52.5        52.8      53.0            52.7        53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.8         2.8        2.5             2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GRQffT RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                          2.7       2.7             2.6        2.4         2.7
lUR8AN                              *-         3.6       8.0             5.8        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     47.3        46.8      45.2            46.9       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     26.0        23.2      20.5            20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..          2.8       2.9             3.1        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPIORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARIED  MEN)    ..            ..        ..             2.5       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            100.8       100.0      91.9            94.2       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREIIINTS)                  92.0        92.0      85.0            90.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          33.0        33.0      32.1            55.2       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANML AND PULSE           ..        16.0  f   12.5            17.1       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..          ..         ..              ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   39.5         42.0      43.5            43.7       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY WE (PER
THOUSAND)                          104.0&         ..       ..            138.4      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        11.0      19.0            22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..        33.0      38.0            66.3       63.5        68.5
RURA4                               .          4.0      12.0            10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         5.0      22.0            23.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                               ..         5.0      67.0            70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                               ..         S.0       6.0            14.2        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         63000.0    30040.0  27900.0 ^         21757.5    13432.7      9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..    13230.0   11680.0 /k        3473.8    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               ..       320.0    330.0            645.4     1157.6       786.5
URBAN                               ..        90.0     110.0           172.9      183.3       278.4
RURAL                               ..      1070.0    1000.0          1292.6     1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..            19.2       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIE2 OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..             4.9        5.2
URBAN                               ..         6.1        ..             5.0        4.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URBAN                               ...                   ...                       1.8'         2.'3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..        25.9        28.3
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..         8.7        10.3



- 23  -                                                Annex  I
TABLE 3A
ZAIE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SREET                               Page  2  of  7
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ZAIRE
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT RIGHER
MosT RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT PATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 60.0        90.0      88.0 /h          52.1       62.9        75.8
FEMALE               38.0        66.0        ..             37.6       45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  3.0         9.0      11.0              8.0       14.4        17.7
FEMALE                1.0         4.0       6.0              5.0        8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCSNT OF SECONDARY) 27.0        10.0      14.0              7.2        6.6         7.4
POPIL-TEACIR RATIO
PRIKARY                           40.0        43.0        ..             43.2       38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                         20.0        20.0      23.0             22.8       19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PDICEIT)         ..        13.0       15.0            20.3       36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TIDUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         3.0       3.5              3.9        3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TEOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         3.0     101.0             40.1       31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.3       0.3              2.2        2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
T13DUSAND POPULATION                 1.0         9.0       2.0              3.9        6.0        16.3
CINA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1           0.1       0.1              1.2        1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     7900.0      9700.0   10800.0
FILE (PERCENT)                    43.8        42.8      42.3             32.6       24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.0        79.0      77.0 /t          73.3       60.7        54.1
iNDaSTRY (PERCENT)                 8.8        10.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               47.7        44.9      43.6             42.0       39.8        37.8
MALE                                54.4        52.1      50.9             54.8       53.3        50.3
FENALE                              41.2        37.9      36.5             27.3       19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1        1.1             1.2        1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF ROUSEWLDS      ..          ..        ..             25.7       20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS    ..          ..        ..             55.1       45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..              5.8        5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..             14.5       16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            108.8       88.5       155.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      80.0             74.1       71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOH
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      76.0            124.4      100.8       143.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      40.0             59.6       42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      25.0             26.8       46.0        22.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      80.0             47.6       48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geomtric mans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the moat populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators dependa on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yer between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lw lIneCO  ($280 or lese per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Incoue
($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /f  1965;  IL  1955-58;  /L  1972;   L  As percantaga of saploymut.
September, 197S



-   Annex I
- 24i -
Page 3cr 7'
iEY TO COUNTRIES BY REGION AND LNCOME CROWP/.
Region /nco-e Group                Low Inos-e/b                      Lower Middle                Inter-ediate Middle                    Upper Middle            High tncRt-If                Cntries
In-om ic                     Incrae/d                             Intoas"e                                        Oil Exporter.
lenin                   Maleoi             ngoi                     Cha..                                   Djibouti                   Gabon
Burundi                 Mali               Boteto-n Ivory Coast                                             Reunion
Central Africn REp.   Mneambique           Camereon                 Mauritius
Chad                    Niger             Cape Verde                N bnihia
C_m_o.                  neanda            Congo, P.R.               Seychelles
Ethiopia                Sierra Leone      Equatorial Cuinea
AFRICA SOUTH          Gambia, The              So-ali            Liberia
OF SAHARA             Guine-                   Tent-ci           Mauritania
unea-_BiS....           Toga              Nigeri
Kenya                   Uganda            Rhodsia
Lee.thO                 Upper Volta       Sao Tome E Principe
Medag..car              Zaire              Senegal
Sudan
Egypt                                     MorBone                   Algeria                                 Boerain                    lereel                      Rusit
NORTH AFRICA          Ieqn A R.                                                            Jordan                                  Iran .an                                              Libye
AND MIDDLE            Y-een  PD.R.                                                         Syrian AR.                             Iraq                                                   Qater
EAST                                                                                       Tunisia                                Lebanon                                                Saudi Arabia
Veited Arhb iir.
Afgh-niat-n             Maldi.s.
SOUrH ASIA            Bhutn Pdh               N     ten
Bur.:                   Sri Lanka
India
Cambndia                                  Nee Hebrides              Chins, Rap. nf                          Fiji                       Ari-n  S_oe
Indonesia                                 Papoa New Guinea          Gilbert Island.                        Hung Kong                  Brunei
EAST ASIA SLo PD.n.                                              Philippines              Korea, ReP  of                                                     French Pnlrneeia
Soln-on  lel-nd                           Thailand                  Macan                                                             Guam
Viet NI                                   TConga                    qalareKa Nev Celedonia
deetern S_on              Trust Territory of the Pacific                                    Sing _pore
Hatti                                     Inl"ie                    Artigla           Cuat-n 1a            Argentin-                  Bahas
El Salvador              BalEen            j anit                Barhad.e                  .sonuda
LATIN AMRIftCA                                                   Grnada                   Chile             MAiso                  Cr .il                    Cn   P ud
Any CAIAMRRICA                                                   Guyana                   GolonCbiS         Airagu. French fuien,                            Martinique
AND CARIBBEAN                                                   Hondura                   Costa Ric-        Peregucy             Fuad _loupo                Veneenele
St. Vincant              Datinica          Peru                 NMthorlaadu Antill-        Virgin Ilelnda (C-SI)
Dominican Rep.   St. Kitts-NRvie       P-ne
Ecuador           St  Lonia            Puerto Rico
Surini=a
Trindd&Tbg
UruguaY
Turkey                                 Cyprus                     Chael Isand.
lele of Mao               Feerne ISlande
EUROFE                                                                                                                           MH-Ita                      Cibriert
PortugalGrec
R-=ugearia                Spain
Australia         Finland                       Italy               Norway                 United States
INDUSTRIALIZEO        Austri-           France                        Jepan               South Africa
coUNTRIES             Beigiu.            G-rny Fed. Sp  of            Lu-emb-urg          Sedon
CInada            Iceland                       Detherlande         Sitoerlard
.erk              Ireland                       New Zealond         United Kingdom
AlbanLa           Ge-.an D_  Rp.            USSR
Bulgaria          gungery
CENTEALLY PLANNED    Chin P.R  of    Karea D1. Rep  of
ECGOM*IES             Cubs              Mongolia
Caech-slovakia   Poland
a  BO.eed on lA7h GNP Par capit  in  t976 UL d1llre.
7i S2HO or less par capita.
/c  S281-550 per c-pita.
'd $551-1135 par capita.
f  11136-2500 per cspi,                                                                                                                                                                               FPDFs
!f  _ur SOV  pec :Pia



Annex I
- 25-                                                                       Page 4 of 7
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL lNDICATORS
Notes: AlthOugh the data are drawn from sources generally judged the most authoritative and reliable, it should also he noted that thev may not be inter-
notiunally comparable because of the lack of standardized definitions and concepts used by different  ouncriee in collecting the data.  The data are  nonetheless,
uaeful to describe orders of nognitude  indicate trends, and ohsracteruei  certain najJr differences between conntries.
Thu adiunted groan averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric m-ans, e-cluding the extr... u-hiss of the indicator and the most
FoFIated country in o.ch group. Coverage of countries among the indic-tors depends on availability of data sod is not uniform. Due to lack of data.
group averages for Capitol Surplus Oil Exporters and indicstors of ncfeen to water end e-creta disposal, hunsing  income distribution and poverty are
sinple population-weighted geometric means without the excluniom of otreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kr)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Tutal surface ares comptising land area and inland waters                            urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recaet enti, e of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                                at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and mdi-
GNP PER CAPITA lUSl) - GNP per capita ontinaten at current market prices,                      cal  nensers nut permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World IBak Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                                 provide a limited range PE medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
EENRGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                        from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total populatIon, aid-year (millionu) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their maim  eals.  A boarder  r lodger may or my not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                              the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (pe-cent of ttotl) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
tion; different definitious of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average uum-
of data among countries,                                                                   ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent strtctures and
Per  so. km.  - Mid-year population per squane kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
PFr s. kbn  agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural l-nd                      ConventionUl dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rats (percent) - coca1, and urban - Compound annual                      PrImary  -hoo1 - total, and femal  - Total and femal  enrollment of al ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                          at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth ruae (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal *du-
mid-year population; ton-year arithmetic averagen ending In 1960 and                       cation enrollment say exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and floe-year average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate,                        above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as  above; secondary educe-
year population; tan-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                             vides general v"cational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal ueproductive period if she experiences present age-                          excluded.
spclific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                    Vocational enrollment (percent o.  secondary) - Vocationa1 inartittiona in-
1970  and 1975.                                                                            clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of natlonal family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program,                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by nmbers  f teachers in the corre-
Family planning - osers (percent of married women) - Percentage of                           sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
deviosa to sll maaried women in same age group.                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                        CONSUMPTION
Cndex of food production per napitu (1970-100) - Indo. number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
rapita annual prodoction of all food commodities                                        seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                    vehicles
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
pe  day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thossand of population; excludes unlicensed
-xports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in nountries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; data for recent years may not be comparable sinc moat countries
quicomeoc.  ocre estimated by FAO boned on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
sal octivitp and health considering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (Par thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to gener&
weights, age and sea distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                     public per thousand population; eacludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
test for waste at household level,                                                        tries  nd in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of fond per day.  Net supply uf food is defined as                       tion of "daily general interest newspaper". defined as a periodical publi-
above.   Requirements for a11 countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimun allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grass                     be "daily" if it appears at least four tines a week.
uf animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the year, including admissio.s  to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       units.
FAO in the Third World Pond Surv_y
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulso - Protein supply of fond                EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals amd pulses is grams per day                                       Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persona, including armed
Child (aces 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 yeats, to children in this age group.                                 tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor frce.
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor tolce in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Avefage number of years of life                           as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, cnnstruction, manufacturing end
and 1971.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infsnt mortality tate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participa lios rate (percent) - total  male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand livc birhts.                                                 female labor force as percentages of their respective populatio.s.
Access to safe water  (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    These ore ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting  ge-es
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                       structure of the pcpolatio,  dand long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                    Eonomic dependenny ratio - Rati  of population under 15 and 65 sod over to
uncontaminaned water such as that fron protected boreholen, springs,                       the labor force in age group  f 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost locaed not more                      INCOME DISTRIBIUTION
than 200 moters from a house nay be considered as being within r.a-                    Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percente   poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of tho household do not have to                       of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
s,'tcc needs.                                                                         POVERTY CARGET GROUPS
Access to escreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                   Estimated absute poverty income level (UPS per capita) - urba    d rural -
rurn1 - Number of people (total, urban, and cural) served by exctreta                        Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations,   Excreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus essential on-food requirements is not
disposal nay include the collection and disposal, with or without                         afford.ble.
treatment, of human axcreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                     Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                      Relativ  povarty income loya  is that income level less than one-third
Popluation per physIcian - Populotion divided by number of practicing                        per capita personal income of the nountry.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                        Estimated population  below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Poculation pet nurning person - Population divided by number of                              Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing sale and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relativ  por" whichever is greater.
assistant curses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis snd Projections Department



Annex I
ECONCMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET                                      Page 5 of 7
Annual
Actual                                        .            ----Growth Rates--                 ---Shares of GDP_-
1970     1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977(E)  1978  (E)       1970-74       1974-78                1970    1974    1978
A. National Accounts Data
1.  GDP (millions uS$ at 70 prices)         1904.2  2046.8   2066.2   2208.6   2344.0   2235.8   2115.2   2071.5   2019.7                    5.3          -3.7                 100.0   100.0   100.0
2.  Gains from TT                               -   -217.6   -193.2   -128.6   -168.7   -441.0   -430.4   -420.9   -456.                      --                                  -      -7.2   -22.6
3.  Gross domestic income (1 + 2)           1904.2  1829.2   1873.0   2080.0   2175.3   1794.8   1684.8   1650.6   1562.9                    3.4          -8.0                 100.0    92.8    77.4
4.  Imports                                  835.0   917.2    934.8   1017.4   1123.8    720.4    650.0    615.6    615.                     7.8        -14.0                   43.8    47.9    30.5
5.  Exports - volume                         826.6   934.0    942.6    966.6    986.8    897.2    908.0    971.0    988.7                    4.5           0.2                  43.4    42.1    49.0
6.  Exports - TT adjust.                     826.6   716.4    749.4    838.0    818.0    456.2    477.6    550.1    531.9                   -0.3        -16.6                   43.4    34.9    26.3
7.  Resource gap -- TT adjust                  8.4   200.8    185.4    179.4    305.7    264.2    172.4            65.5      83.1          145.6        -15.0                    0.4    13.0       4.1
8.  Total consumption                       1394.4  1381.0   1419.6   1531.2   1764.2   1480.6   1405.0   1350.6   1280.0                    6.1         -7.7                   73.7    75.3    63.4
9.  Investment                               518.2   649.0    638.8    720.6    753.0    578.4    452.2    365.5    365.0                    9.8        -16.5                   27.2    32.1    18.1
10.  National savings                         377.6   413.3    415.7    422.8    282.6    230.9    187.1    228.1    216.3 2/                -7.0          -6.5                  19.8    12.1    10.7
11.  Domestic savings                         509.8   448.2    453.4    548.8    411.1    341.2    279.8    300.0    282.9                   -5.2          -8.9                  26.8    17.5    14.o
12.  GDP at current US$                      1904.2  2017.2   2158.0   2753.0   3591.8   3586.2   3602.7   4565.6   7545.6
B.  Prices(1970 - 100)
1.  Export price index                       100.0    79.6       79.5    115.2    149.0    108.3    125.0    128.9    138.0
2.  Import price index                       100.0   103.8    114.7    132.9    179.8    213.2    204.8    224.7    240.4
3.  Terms of trade index                     100.0    76.7       69.3      86.7      82.3      50.8      61.o     57.4       57.4
4.  GDP deflator                             100.0    98.6    104.4    133.2    157.7    174.6    170.3    220.4    373.6
5.  Average exchange rate (Z/$)                0.5      0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.807    0.857    0.8091-
C.  Selected Indicators                         1970-74
1.  ICOR                                       5.9
2.  Import elasticity                          1.47
3.  Average national saving rate               0.18
4.  Marginal savings rate                     -0.35
5.  Imports/GDP                                0.46
6.  Investment/GDP                             0.32
7.  Resource gap/GDP                           0.09
D.  Public Finance                              1970      1973      1974      1975      1976 2'  1977 D   1978 
(as 2 of GDP)
1.  Current revenue                          33.1      27.4      30.0      24.1      18.4      19.0    14.5
(1.l)Tax revenue                        30.0      26.9      28.1      21.8      17.8      18.7    14.2
(2)  Current expenditures               27.2      24.4      29.4      28.0      25.2      26.4    25.0
(3)  Capital expenditures                6.6       7.6      11.1       4.7       5.4        3.0     2.0
1/ Average rate for the first three quarters.
/  Assuming only half of investment income due is paid.
/  Percentages of commercialized GDP.
not applicable



Amnex I
- 27 -                                  Page 6 Of 7
W2 V AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Millions of US$)
Actual
1970             1973      1974       1975    1976(E) 1977(E)
A.  Summary Balance of Payments
1.  Exports (inc.NFS)                   826.6           1113.6   1470.2    971.6   1135.0  1252.2
2.  Imports (inc.NFS)                   835.0           1352.2   2020.6   1535.8   1368.2  1385.2
3.  Resource Balance                     -8.4           -238.6   -550.4   -564.2   -233.2  -133.0
4.  Net Factor Service Income          -132.2           -167.4   .-231.1   -195.6   -189.9  -195.0
(1)  Direct Investment Income    -23.6               -23.1    -21.9    -11.7       -4.9    -4.0
(2)  Workers remittances (net)   -37.7               -99.3   -115.4    -86.4    -80.8  -110.0
(3)  Other factbr service income  -4.9               -45.0    -93.8    -97.5   -105.0  -106.0
5.  Curent transfers (net)               77.2             126.2    118.9    103.2    130.0   115.0
6.  Balance on Current.:Account         -63.4           -279.8   -662.6   -656.6   -293.1  -213.0
7.  Private direct investment            42.2             75.6    125.4       37.5      35.0    23.8
8.  Public MT and LT loans
9.  Disbursements of pipeline            31.1            365.2    524.3    500.0    585.0   448.7
10.  Amortization of existing debt    -28.1                -59.4   -125.5    -92.9    -65.5   -50.5
11.  Net disbursements                     3.0             305.9    398.8    407.1    519.5   398.2
12.  Short-term capital                   38.0              75.6    143.8   -172.4       --        --
13.  Arrears (net)                         -                 -        -       329.0    135.0   335.0
14.  Errors and omissions                -27.8           -108.4    -98.4   -233.4!  -463.4 -472.6
15.  Change in net reserves (increase   8.0                -69.0     93.0    178.0       67.0   -71.4
of which IMF)                                       (3.4)    (0.5)   (51.2)  (124.1)  (44.6)
16.  Net international reserves                           233.7    140.7    -37.3   -104.3   -32.9
B. Grants and loans commitments
1.  Official grant                       79.3            119.8    146.7    167.1    153.0   175.0
2.  Total public M/LT loans             194.0          1,104.6    970.8    513.5    422.2   161.7
(1) IBRD                             -                -          -       100.0      -        -
(2) IDA                               5.0              8.5      10.0     52.0      50.5    18.0
(3) Other multilateral                8.9              3.9      28.1       2.0     17.0      1.3
(4) Governments                     10.0             288.7    286.9    124.2    170.6   123.1
(5) Suppliers                      115.9             252.6    159.9    132.6       40.5    12.2
(6) Financial institutions          54.2             550.9    485.9    102.7    126.5        7.1
(7) Bonds                            -                 -         -         -       17.1      -
(8) Other
C.  Memorandum items                           Average
1.  Grant element of total loan           1970-72
commitments                           18.5          22.6      13.3      22.8      23.8    40.3
2.  Average interest (X)                     6.8           6.3       7.5       6.2       6.2      4.2
3.  Average maturity (years)                13.6          14.5      12.7      16.1      17.1    22.4
4.  Average grace                            3.6           4.4       4.6       4.6       3.7      5.1
11  Includes the coumterpart entries to arrears and an undetermined amount of short-term capital
outflows as vell as of imports.
:'not available



-   28   -                                Annex I
DEBT AND CREDTTWORTHINESS            Page 7 of 7
Actual
1970    1972    1973       1974      1975      1976      1977
A.  Medium and Long Term Debt/
Disbursed Only
1. Total debt outstanding(DOD
of period)                  310.6   544.2   862.3   1294.6   1655.1   2168.8   2632.9
2.  Including undisbursed           538.9   714.9  1750.8   2676.9   3008.3   3305.6   3536.8
3.  Public debt service              36.8    61.1    93.3    189.4    154.7    127.2    117.5
(1) Interest                     8.8    17.2    33.9        63.9      61.8     61.7      67.0
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Public debt service ratio         4.5      8.2      8.4     12.9      15.9      11.2       9.4
2.  Public debt service/GDP( )        1.9      2.8      3.4      5.3       4.3       3.5       2.6
3. Public debt service/Govt.
revenue                       5.8    10.2    12.4        17.6     17.9      21.0      14.9
C.  Items
1. Interest on total DOD/total
DOD                           2.8      3.2      3.9       4.9       3.7      2.8       2.5
2.  Total debt service/total DOD  11.8    11.2    10.8          14.6       9.3       5.9       4.5
D. Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1. Gross disbursements/imports
(inc. NFS)                    3.7    22.5    27.0       25.9      32.6      42.8      32.4
2.  Net transfer/imports(inc.NFS) -0.7    16.8    20.1          16.6      22.5      33.5      24.0
3. Net transfer/gross disburse-
ments                       -18.3    74.6    74.5        63.9      69.1     78.3      73.8
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD disb./gross total disb.    -           -        -        -        2.4       3.5       5.3
2.  Bank Group disb./gross total
disb.                         2.4      2.1      1.91      1.9      4.6       6.4      12.6
3.  IBRD DOD/total DOD                1.6      0.5     0.2        -        0.7       1.5      2.1
4.  Bank Group DOD/total DOD          1.8      2.0      2.1      2.1       3.0       4.0       5.4
5.  IBRD debt service/total debt
service                       4.5      1.9      1.2       0.6      0.9       2.7       3.4
6.  Bank Group debt service/total
debt service                  4.5      1.9      1.3      0.6       0.9       2.9       3.7
Outstanding December 31, 1977
F., External Debt (Disbursed only)               Amount      z
1.  IBRD                                     56.4      2.1
2.  Bank. Group                             143.4      5.4
3.  Other multilateral                       36.4      1.4
4.  Governments                             801.2    30.4
(of which centrally planned
economies)                        (108.2)   (4.1)
5.  Suppliers                               505.6    19.2
6.  Financial Institutions                 1126.3    42.8
7.  Bonds                                     6.5      0.3
8.  Other                                    13.6      0.5
9.  Total public M&LT debt                 2632.9!/l}0.O
(including undisbursed)             (3536.8) -
G. Debt Profile
Total debt service 1978-82/total
DOD end of 1977                           0.85
Includes US$268.0 million of principal in arrears but excludes US$109.4 million of interest in arrears.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of February 28, 1979)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                      Amount in US$ Millions
Number       Year      Borrower       Purpose        Bank      IDA 2/  Undisbursed
Prior to   Congo and  Transport          91.6 1/
June 1960  Otraco      Infrastructure
Two credits fully disbursed                                     11.0
255         1971      ZAIRE       River Transport    -          7.0         0.7
271         1972      ZAIRE       DFC II              -        10.0         0.0 3/
272          1972     ZAIRE       Education I         -         6.5         2.8
292          1972     ZAIRE       Highway II          -        19.0         0.1
398         1974      ZAIRE       Livestock I         -         8.5         2.6
463          1974     ZAIRE       DFC III             -        10.0         0.7
1090          1975     ZAIRE       Gecamines        100.0         -         24.5
536         1975      ZAIRE       Highway III         -        26.0         7.0
571         1975      ZAIRE       Rail-River II       -        26.0        11.6
624         1976      ZAIRE       Education II        -        21.0       20.6
625         1976      ZAIRE       Water Supply        -        21.5       11.8
660         1977      ZAIRE       Cotton I            -         8.0         7.4
697         1977      ZAIRE       Livestock II        -         8.0        7.7
710         1977      ZAIRE       DFC IV              -        10.0        5.0
796         1978      ZAIRE       Oil Palm            -         9.0 4/     9.0
TOTAL (less cancellations):           191.6      201.5
- of which has been repaid:          91.6        -          -
TOTAL now outstanding:                100.0      201.5      111.5
Amount sold:                    54.5
- of which has been repaid  54.5
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA: 2/  100.0        201.5
TOTAL undisbursed:                     24.5       87.0      111.5
1/   Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgiun.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/   Undisbursed balance of $565.74.
4/   Not yet effective.



30 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
Fiscal                                Type of            Amount in US$ Millions
Year         Obligor                  Business          Loan   Equity    Total
1970      Societe Financiere de       DFC                 -       0.76      0.76
Developpement (SOFIDE)
1979      Zaire Gulf Oil Company      Oil Company        2.50      -        2.50
1979      Zaire Petroleum Company    Oil Company         1.60      -        1.60
Total gross commitments
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                      4.0     0.76       4.86
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-'
Loan 1090     Mining Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of March 8,
1975; Effective Date: December 2, 1975; Original Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project, which was cofinanced with the Libyan Arab Foreign
Bank and EIB, consists of expanding the production facilities of the state-
owned Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (GECAMINES) to produce an addi-
tional 120,000 tons per year of refined copper and 4,000 tons per year of
cobalt in the form of copper-cobalt alloy. Following the invasion of
Kolwezi in May 1978, project implementation has been stopped. GECAMINES
faces serious (i) technical problems due to urgent rehabilitation needs and
lack of sufficient experienced staff; (ii) managerial problems due to
political interference in operational policies; and (iii) financial problems,
Amendments to the loen documents including determining a new closing date
are expected to be negotiated shortly to allow completion of essential works
while postponing the procurement or erection of certain equipment.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-31 -.
Annex II
Page 3 of 8
Credit 463     Third DFC; US$10 million Credit of February 20, 1974;
Effective Date: July 25, 1974; Original ClosinE Date:
December 31, 1977; Present Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Credit 710     Fourth DFC; US$10 million Credit of August 2, 1977; Effec-
tive Date: October 3, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided
a substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment
of US$750,000 and an IDA credit of US$5 million. It started operating on
July 1st, 1970,with a General Manager seconded by the Bank. Credit 463 is
expected to be fully disbursed shortly. It is expected that Credit 710
will be committed well ahead of schedule. In May 1973, a Zairian General
Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior Advisor, replaced the Bank-seconded
General Manager. The institution has developed into a well run and capable
development bank, despite the policies of zairianization/
retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and financial sectors.
SOFIDE has recently diversified its activities by increasing its operations
in key economic sectors, especially agriculture and transportation. SOFIDE
has also decentralized its operation and has recently opened two regional
offices. In 1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department conducted a
project performance audit of the first Credit to SOFIDE and found that
SOFIDE had been generally successful in fulfilling its objectives and had
developed into a competent organization.
Credit 398     Livestock Development; US$8.5 million Credit of June 21, 1973;
Effective Date:  February 14, 1974;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project was designed to increase beef output in the Shaba
region and to help establish a National Livestock Development Authority
(ONDE) through the provision of technical support and funds for training
agriculturalists. Implementation is proceeding slowly and unevenly.
Initially, a major constraint was the poor performance of the consulting
firm selected to implement the project, which led to its replacement in 1976.
The management of ONDE has tried to improve performance but limited managerial
capacity, inadequate performance of local and expatriate staff and lack of
supervision capability still constitute major problems.  While technical
results have improved in two out of three ranches, the financial situation
of the project has deteriorated for lack of financial management and
budgetary control. The project was revised in January 1978 in particular to
develop a training program in animal production and range management and
to finance the foreign exchange element of current expenditures on the
ranches.



- 32 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 8
Credit 697      Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 million Credit of
August 2, 1977; Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic
of Germany and the Canadian International Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three
ranches to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and
slaughter facilities. Project start up has suffered from delays in the
provision of counterpart funds, supply shortages due to serious deteriora-
tion of the Kisangani-Bunia road and lack of foreign exchange to import
the necessary commodities, insufficient support from central services in
Kinshasa, and delays in setting up of the training program financed by
German Aid, but implementation is now progressing satisfactorily.
Constraints remain the very high costs in the project area, compounding
inflation in Zaire, the lack of establishment of minimum prices for
beef as agreed and the need to ensure the project's financial autonomy
through the setting up of a revolving fund. The ranch component has not
yet started as the planned transfer of the ranches from Kilomines to ONDE
has not taken place. The slaughterhouse component and the training program
are expected to start shortly.
Credit 660     Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981, Cofinanced by Belgium
The project aimed at helping the Zairian Government to rehabilitate
cotton production in the Equateur region through reorganization of the buying,
transportation,and ginning operations of the National Textile Fibers
Authority (ONAFITEX) in the project area. It also includes rehabilitation
of the network of roads linking the production areas. The project faces
serious implementation problems. The Government dissolved ONAFITEX, the
agency responsible for project implementation on May 5, 1978 and IDA was
not consulted prior to the event. Although the Government has made an
effort to define interim arrangements to allow project implementation to
continue, the consequences of ONAFITEX's dissolution for the project are
far-reaching, and organization, management, and financing arrangements
require extensive revision. For the present, project execution is largely
at a standstill because the project management team works in an uncertain
situation without clear authority over staff, facilities, or resources;
the financial situation is unclear and adequate budgetary provisions have
not been made.  Responsibility for overseeing the project at the central
government level is not clear.  A recent mission reviewed with the govern-
ment proposed new institutions for the cotton sub-sector, including those
which would assume responsibility for project implementation. The govern-
ment is currently preparing detailed proposals for a new regional company
which would replace ONAFITEX for the Equateur region; when details of new
arrangements are agreed upon, the Credit Agreement and related documents
will be amended as appropriate. Some progress has been made on the road
component which is executed by the Bureau of Roads (OR).



- 33 -                                ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Credit 796-ZR    Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of May 2, 1978,
not yet effective; Cofinanced by ADF, BADEA, CCCE
The project consists of a five-year program to support the
rehabilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for
replanting and new plantings, renewal of oil mill and transport equipment,
improvement and expansion of social infrastructure, the employment of
additional staff, and training of staff. Several conditions of effectiveness
remain to be fulfilled: signature of subsidiary loan agreements, signature
of administration agreement, submission of statement on labor use to IDA
by the Government, and notification by cofinanciers that all conditions
precedent to their first disbursement other than the effectiveness of the
IDA Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Credit 292        Second Highway; US$19 Million Credit of March 23, 1972;
Effective Date: September 11, 19T'2; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1975; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1979;
Cofinanced by UNDP, CIDA, FAC and USAID
The project consists of a comprehensive program to strengthen
.highway administration and maintenat~ce and to rehabilitate high-priority roads.
The project is substantially completed. The main institutional objective of
the project, the development of the Office des Routes, OR, established under
the first project, as an effective countrywidde organization responsible for
highways, was achieved. notwithstanding the initially rather unsatisfactory
performance of the-consultants and owing mainly to the efforts of its new
Del'egu'e-General. Rehabilitation work has encountered many difficulties such
as cost increases, shortage of Governiment f-unds, disruption due to Zairianization
of the contractors. Only about 1,000 kiss of roads have been rehabilitated to
planned standards; the remaining 900 kiss have been upgraded to standards lower
than originally envisioned. Changes in currency parities resualted in a foreign
exchange cost overrun of US$400,000 for civil works.
Credit 536       Third Highway Project; US$26 Million Loan of March 19, 1975;3
Effective Date: July 31, 1975; Closing Date:
.December 31, 1979; Cofinanced by UNDP, Belgium and France
The project was designed to strengthen the Office des Routes (OR),
by continuing to develop local expertise in highway administration and
maintenance and to provide for the rehabilitation of a key road. Shortage
of local funds and foreign currency for capital and recurrent expenditures
has considerably hindered project implementation. The project was revised
in 1978 to reduce the Governiment's financial contribution to the project by
curtailing road rehabilitation and feasibility studies and reallocating
funds to finance the most essential road improvements, fuel and spare parts.



_ 34 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
At the request of the Government, a ferry maintenance program was later
added to the project. Technical assistance to OR is operating satisfactorily
but the Government continues to have difficulties in appointing suitable
counterparts. OR's overall maintenance operations in 1978 reached about
70% of the objectives, despite inadequate budgetary allocations, which can
be considered satisfactory. The Department responsible for equipment
maintenance and repair is severely restricted by the shortage of spare
parts and equipment utilization rate is very low. Rehabilitation by
contractor of the Kabinda-Lompmi road is progressing satisfactorily, but
little progress has been made on the section to be rehabilitated by force
account due to the shortages of fuel during most of last year and continuing
shortages of construction materials.
Credit 255        River Transport; US$7 million Credit of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: January 17, 1972; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1973; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, based on UNDP-financed studies, consists of:  (a)
rehabilitation of navigational aids, dredging facilities and equipment
for the Zaire River estuary; (b) improvements of navigation on the Kinshasa-
Ilebo waterway; (c) rehabilitation of the ONATRA river fleet; (d) provision
of experts to fill key positions in ONATRA, RVM AND RVF; and (e) feasibility
study for the Voie Nationale, the combination of rail-river links between
the mining areas of Shaba and Zairian seaports. The river agencies have
been set up as autonomous public entities, and almost all contracts for goods
and services under the Credit have been awarded. Physical implementation
however is slowed down by delays in completing: a) a buoy tender for RFV,
due to the Government's failure to meet required local currency costs; and
b) rehabilitation of navigation aids on the Kasai River for which a contract
was terminated and which is now to be implemented by RVF. Financial
constraints and management shortcomings in the Government executing agencies
still delay project completion and impede the achievement of envisaged
operational and financial objectives.
Credit 571        Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 million Credit
of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including
a comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings for the Regie
des Voies Fluviales; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering study
for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially slow
due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints.
Since March 1977 ONATRA has been increasingly under the direction and control
of a team of expatriates, now numbering 75, including the Delegue General.
All procurement is now completed or underway. ONATRA's financial performance
has improved significantly as a result of tight controls. Operations have
improved in the ports, in river transpor; and in the shipyards; the railway
(CFMK) still suffers from parts shortages, however lmprovement is anticipated
in the near future. Overall project execution is satisfactory.



- 35 -
Annex II
Page 7 of 8
Credit 625      Water Supply Project: US$21.5 million Credit of
June 18, 1976; Effective Date: August 4, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979; Cofinanced bl
ADB and BADEA
The project comprises construction and expansion of production
and distribution facilities in six major cities, the rehabilitation of
existing facilities, provision of engineering consultant services for
the six cities, a comprehensive training program, and feasibility studies
for additional water supply projects.  REGIDES   the state corporation
responsible for water supply and electricity in Zaire, is the executing
agency. Construction works are progressing slowly but satisfactorily
mainly because of shortage of fuel and building materials and transportation
means. Construction of new facilities in the six towns should be
completed between May and August 1979. Rehabilitation works are expected
to be completed by December 1979.
Credit 272      First Education; US$6.5 million Credit of December 17,
1971; Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
The project consists of (a) the construction oF rehabilitation,
equipping and furnishing of educational institutions and facilities in order
to train teachers, inspectors, and directors for primary education,
teachers for secondary-level general and technical education, and
middle-level industrial technicians; (b) the carrying out of a management
study of the Ministry of National Education to improve the effectiveness
of its administration; and (c) the carrying out of a survey of manpower
needs. Due to considerable and unforeseen price increases after appraisal,
the Government and IDA curtailed the scope of the project in 1976. Physical
implementation of two institutions is near completion; at the other two
institutions, project implementation was interrupted by the recent events
in Shaba but arrangements have been made to make up for the lost time.
Project completion is now expected by mid-1980.
Credit 624      Second Education Project; US$21 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of building and equipping five new rural
primary teacher training schools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment of
six agricultural technician training schools and one higher agricultural
institute, technical assistance and fellowships for these instutions, and
evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying out
of preinvestment studies in preparation for further education projects.
The credit was not declared effective until late 1977, because of the
Government's request that a local autonomous architectural group be estab-
lished within the National Education to implement the project. The group's
performance to date has not been satisfactory but some progress is expected
following recent changes in staff. The preparation of architectural working
drawings, specifications, and bills of quantities for the first group of
institutions to be financed under the project is well advanced, and the
preparation of working drawings for the remaining institutions is underway



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
The provision of counterpart funds remains a problem. Substantial
progress has been made in the achievement of educational objectives
since the IDA mission which visited Zaire in May 1978. Because of
implementation delays and an unexpectedly high rate of inflation, however,
the total cost of the project substantially exceeds available funds. The
Government has requested that the project content be reduced in line with
Government priorities. Emphasis would be given to those components of
the project designed to assist agricultural development, namely, the
Agricultural Technical Institutes and the Higher Institute of Agricultural
Studies. Equipment would be provided to one existing secondary-level
institute for the training of rural primary teachers. This proposal is
being reviewed.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
RAILWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I
Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Project Identification:               December 1975
(b)  Project Preparation:                  June 1977
(c)  Appraisal Mission:                    November 1977
(d)  Colenders Meeting:                    December 1978
(e)  Negotiations:                         February 1979
(f)  Planned date of
Credit effectiveness:                August 1979
SECTION II
Special Bank Group Implementation Action
None.
SECTION III
Special Conditions
(a)  SNCZ will study the future of its low density sections,
in cooperation with the Planning Office of DOTC, and
will discuss its findings with IDA no later than December
31, 1979 (para 54).
(b)  Government subsidies will be limited to losses on non
profit making services provided specifically on Govern-
ment directives (para 56).



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Government will establish an Operations Coordination
Unit within DOTC to improve coordination between
SNCZ and ONATRA (para 33).
(d) SNCZ's payments to suppliers will be promptly remitted
by the Bank of Zaire and SNCZ will not have to meet any
additional charges arising from delayed transfers (para 56).
(e) At least $10 million equivalent will be allocated to SNCZ
annually for spare parts after the project period (1979-1982)
(para 56).
(f) Government and SNCZ will adjust tariffs and take other
measures to produce a minimum return of 3 percent annually
on the current net value of its fixed assets from 1981
onwards (para 57).
(g) SNCZ will not incur any further debt if its debt service
coverage is forecast to fall below 1.5 (para 57).
(h) SNCZ will not undertake any investment outside the project,
in excess of US$1.0 million a year, without the agreement of
IDA (para 58).
(i) SNCZ will take steps to achieve by the end of 1980, 1982, and
1984 the operational targets set forth by the project (para 42).
Special Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a) All conditions precedent to the first disvursements under the loan
agreements between Government and the Saudi Fund, KfW, AfDB, and the
OPEC Special Fund other than the effectiveness of the IDA Credit
Agreement would have been fullfilled (para 50).
(b) Onlending subsidiary loan agreement between Government and
SNCZ would have been signed (para 50).
(c) Tariff Commission would have been established (para 56).



CIA                                                                                                                                        z
ME ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~4
V7 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
549~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
S5.j  .5--            CC'~~~g
g                                                                                                             :S5 5L"
JK ~
K -                                -~~~~~~~~~~~ - - -~~~~~~~~~  -4                     F   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'               C~,~ ' J
K  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
9:~~~~~~~A



