Document of                       M
The World Bank
FOR OFF][CIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1986-ZR
ZAIRE
SNCZ RAILWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 25, 1979
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Zaire (Z)
B 1.00               =   US$ 0.65
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2    =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )   =   0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)              =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)             =   2.2 pounds (lbs)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CFMK      -    Chemin de Fer Matadi a Kinshasa
KDL       -    Chemin de Fer Kinshasa-Dilolo-Lubumbashi
ONATRA    -    Office National des Transports
RVF       -    Regie des Voies Fluviales
RVM       -    Regie des Voies Maritimes
SNCZ      -    Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
OR        -    Office des Routes
CFM       -    Chemin de Fer de Mayumbe
VCZ       -    Vicizaire Railway
CFL       -    Chemin de Fer des Grand Lacs
DOTC      -    Department of Transport and Communications
GEEP      -    Economic Study and Planning Unit of DOTC
RVA       -    Regie de Voies Aeriennes
CMZ       -    Compagnie Maritime Zairoise
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
GDP       -    Gross domestic product
km/h      -    Kilometers per hour
kg/m      -    Kilograms per meter
GOVERNMENT OF ZAIRE
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..............      .....................  1
A.   Economic Background .....................  .........      1
B.   The Transport System 1..                  .      ...      i
C.   Organization of the Transport Sector      . ..            2
D.   The "Voie Nationale" and Alternative
International Transport Links            ...          4
E.   Transport Planning and Coordination           ..          6
F.   Past Bank Group Role in Sector           . . .           6
Il.   SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER ZAIROIS (SNCZ)            8
A. Introduction......                                          8
B.  Track .. . . .... ..........                       .      8
C.   Signalling and Telecommunications   .       .12
D.   Motive Power and Rolling Stock             .             12
E.   Workshops .... ...... ..                                14
F.  Port Facilities ..... . ............                      14
G.   Organization, Management and Staff         .     .       15
H.   Training .......      ...................................    15
I.   Past and Present Traffic .....      .....................    17
J.   Budget, Accounts, Audit and Insurance .............   19
K.   Problems-Facing SNCZ ............. ..    ...............   20
III.   THE PROJECT ......................................................   22
A.   Scope of the Project ............. ..    ...............   22
B.   Details of the Project .....      .......................   22
C.   Cost Estimates         ............................   25
D.   Financing and Procurement .........................   25
E.   Disbursements ..........................................   28
F.   Project Execution, Environment and Employment .....      28
G.   Operational Targets .., .............   ................   30
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Parthasarathi (Senior Economist),
R. Masthagen (Railway Engineer), O. Fraisse (Financial Analyst) and J. van
der Ven (Transport Economist, RMZ), on the basis of their findings during an
appraisal mission in Zaire in November-December 1977. Mr. Delvoie (Financial
Analyst) participated in completing it.
This document has a restrictod distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. lIu contents may not otherwise be discbosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                           Page No.
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION .......      ..............................    31
A.   Forecast of Future Traffic ........................    31
B.   Objective of the Project ...........................    34
C.   Project Benefits and Economie Return .34
D.   Sensitivity and Risk Analysis .....................    38
V.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION ............................ ..           39
A.   Past Financial Perf-ormance .....     ...................    39
B.   Financial Forecasts .... .....         . ....... ... .    43
C.   Financial Rate of Return ..........................    48
VI.   RECODMMENDATIONS          .......................    49
ANNEXES
1.   Past Bank Group Financed Transport Projects in Zaire
2.   Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAPS
1.   Zaire - Transport Connections - IBRD 11253
2.   Zaire - Transportation Network - IBRD 13411



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Background
1.01      faire, the third largest country in Africa, covers an area of 2.4
million km . Its geography is dominated by the Zaire River and its tribu-
taries which drain virtually the entire country. Zaire's only access to the
sea is 30 km of shoreline on the Atlantic Ocean (Map 11253).
1.02      The country is exceptional:Ly rich in mineral resources, especially
the Shaba region in the southeast. At present, mining is the most important
source of export earnings; copper, the main export commodity, accounts for over
20% of GDP and 60% of export earnings. However, some 75% of Zaire's popula-
tion of 26.1 million makes a living from agriculture, which is mainly subsis-
tence farming. There is also a large export-oriented plantation sector,
mainly in the northeast. Per capita GNP was US$130 equivalent in 1976.
1.03      Zaire's excessive dependence on a single export commodity whose
price is volatile has resulted in economic instability. The insufficiency of
qualified technicians and managers siLnce independence, the deterioration in
the country's terms of trade since 1975 and the heavy burden of the external
debt incurred by Zaire since then, have all aggravated the economic situation
and the scarcity of foreign exchange needed to purchase raw materials and
spare parts and to make critical rehabilitation investments.
B. The Transport System
1.04      The development of the transport system in Zaire has been influenced
by the structure of the economy, the location of the copper mines in the far
southeast, the long distances between centers of economic activity, the avail-
ability in many areas of relatively cheap river transport, and the fact that
the country is almost landlocked (Map 13411).
1.05      The transport system is based on the Zaire and Kasai Rivers and
their tributaries, which provide some 15,000 km of navigable waterways. Other
transport modes have been developed to complement them. Hence the railways
do not form an interconnected network.  In the Shaba Region, the railway was
built to transport the products of the mining industry to export outlets and
to bring in supplies. Elsewhere, the railway was built to bypass non-navigable
sections of the river system. The total rail route length is under 5,000 km,
with much of it in the south and east. Most of the road network of 145,000 km
was constructed to provide local access roads or feeder roads to the rail/river
system. The country's only seaport is Matadi, about 150 km from the ocean in
the Zaire estuary; it is open to ships with a maximum draft of 9 m. Air
transport is limited to long-distance transport of people and high-value
freight. Filally, a 4" and 3a 6" pipeline, with respective yearly capacities
of 100,000 m  and 590,000 m , transport white oil products from Matadi to



-2 -
Kinshasa; both are past their normal economie life and Bank Group financing
may be considered to rehabilitate them once Zaire's economic recovery gets
under way.
1.06      On the whole, the basic infrastructure already exists in terms
of ports, railways and roads, as do railway rolling stock and rivercraft
to meet short term transport demands. The facilities have suffered badly
in the recent past from lack of proper and timely maintenance and repair.
Operational capacity in the transport sector could be increased significantly
in the short term by improving the supply of spare parts and fuel, but the
medium term need is principally to rehabilitate and then increase the effec-
tive capacity of the existing infrastructure while prcviding for essential
additions to facilities and equipment.
C.  Organization of the Transport Sector
1.07      The transport sector of Zaire is dominated by three large parastatal
agencies, ONATRA, SNCZ and the Office des Routes, each of which is responsible
for a major part of the transport system. In addition to these, the trans-
port sector includes a number of smaller agencies in river and air transport,
national transport operators such as Air Zaire and Compagnie Maritime Zairois
(CMZ), and an increasing number of private operators of road, river and air
services.  Except for Office des Routes, which comes under the Department of
Public Works, all these agencies and operators come under the Department of
Transport and Communications (DOTC).
1.08      The Office National des Transports (ONATRA) is an autonomous Gov-
ernment agency under the general control of DOTC. It has a staff of 27,000
and provides transport services on the Zaire River, its tributaries and lakes,
the railway services between the port of Matadi and the capital city of
Kinshasa, and the port operations at Matadi and Kinshasa. ONATRA has four
operating divisions: Ports, Railways, River Transport and Shipyard. Since
the early 1960's, ONATRA.has suffered from inadequate organization, lack of
competent staff, and low staff morale. However, significant improvements have
taken place since the appointment of the new Director General in 1976.
1.09      The Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer ZaiLrois (SNCZ) was created
at the end of 1974 by merging all railway companies then existing in Zaire
into the KDL (Kinshasa-Dilolo-Lubumbashi Railway) which was by far the most
important company (details in Chapter II).
1.10      The Office des Routes (OR) was created in 1972 as the country-wide
agency in charge of road maintenance and construction. It has a staff of
some 10,700, of whom about 50 are expatriates.  Zaire's road network is some
145,000 km in length, of which 20,000 km have been designated as national
roads, 40,000 km as regional roads and the remainder as purely local roads.
Only 2,000 km of roads are asphalt-surfaced. The network also comprises 330
ferries, of which a large number are in poor condition or out of service for
prolonged periods. OR has primary responsibility for 40,000 km of the network,



- 3 -
but in the past, due to lack of funds, it has been unable to maintain this
network to acceptable standards. Road upgrading and major rehabilitation
works are carried out by contractors. In the past the foreign currency cost
of these works has been provided by development assistance agencies.
1.11      In addition to the three principal transport organizations, there
are, under DOTC, the following agencies:
i.   Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), charged with maintaining and
operating the navigational markings and services on the navi-
gable waterways of the country except for the Zaire estuary;
ii.   Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM), charged with maintaining and
operating the navigational markings and services on the Zaire
estuary from the port of Matadi to the sea;
iii.   Regie des Voies Aeriennes (RVA), responsible for the construc-
tion, maintenance and operation of airports;
iv.   Air Zaire, the State-owned airline, with scheduled domestic and
international flights; and
V.   Compagnie Maritime Zairoise (CMZ), the national shipping company,
which operates five general cargo ships.
1.12      Finally, Zaire's transport sector features an increasing number of
private operators in road, river and air transport. Despite the lack of an
appropriate legal framework and the sometimes irregular nature of their
operations, these private operators have continued to grow in recent years
and are likely to play an increasing role in providing freight services.
Private operators have traditionally played an important role in road trans-
port; they competed mainly with transport for own account by large companies
and small traders. Recently, however, a large number of operators are giving
increasing competition to other modes of transport on some selected routes.
1.13      For many years ONATRA had a de facto monopoly of river transport.
During the last decade, however, this position has been slowly eroded as
customers grew dissatisfied with the quality of ONATRA's services and have
begun to use the services of private operators. A GEEP study of total tonnage
loaded and unloaded at Kinshasa port by ONATRA and private operators indicates
that the share of private operators was some 16% in 1976. In 1978, ONATRA lost
its de jure monopoly on river transport.
1.14      In air transport, the once dominant position of Air Zaire is being
eroded. In 1978, it also lost its legal monopoly. Total internal air freight
traffic is estimated to be about 30,000 tons a year.  Despite the very high
rates charged by private carriers, their share of the market is about two-
thirds.



-4-
D. The "Voie Nationale" and Alternative International Transport Links
1.15      Zaire's most pressing transport problem, and indeed one of the
most pressing national problems, is to provide a reliable means of transport
between the mineral-producing Shaba region in the south-east and deep-water
port facilities for both the export and import of the mining industry's
requirements. The only route located entirely in Zaire is the 2,600 km-long
"Voie Nationale" which connects Shaba to the port of Matadi. It comprises
rail transport from Shaba to Ilebo on the Kasai River, then river transport on
the Kasai and Zaire Rivers to Kinshasa, followed again by rail transport from
Kinshasa to Matadi. The existing national transport system thus requires two
transshipments and 20 to 25 days in transit.
1.16      Apart from the "Voie Nationale", other rout es available to Zaire
for transporting Shaba's products for export, all through one or more foreign
countries, are the following (Map 11253):
i.   Rail to Kalemi in the east - barge across Lake Tanganyika to
Kigoma, Tanzania - Tanzania Railway to the port of Dar es
Salaam. This involves two transhipments, and a total transit
time, ex-factory to alongside quay, varying from 20 to 30 days.
ii.   Rail to Dilolo in the west - Benguela Railway through Angola
to the port of Lobito. This route is closed to Zairian and
transit traffic since mid-1975 due to political differences
between Zaire and Angola, but it is now expected to be re-
opened in the near future. On this route, transit times were
of the order of 10 to 13 days.
iii.   Rail to Sakania in the south - Zambia Railway to Livingstone -
Rhodesia Railway to Bulawayo, then Francistown - Botswana
Railway to Mefeking - then South African Railway to the port
of East London. This is the longest route which can involve
a transit time of up to 40 days.
iv.   Rail to Sakania in the South - Zambia Railway to Kapiro Mposhi -
Tazara Railway or road through Zambia and Tanzania, to the port
of Dar es Salaam. This is at present the shortest all-rail route
with transit times which should be comparable to those achieved
on the Lobito route; but due to congestion, however, transit
times at present tend to be much longer.
v.   Rail south to Zambia - through Rhodesia to Mozambique to
either Beira or Maputo ports.  This route is also closed at
present.  Transit time on this all-rail route used to be of
the order of 15 to 25 days depending on conditions at the
port of embarkation.



- 5 -
1.17      If all the routes were ful]Ly operational, the transport capacity
available to transport Shaba's exports and imports would be well in excess
of immediate requirements. The following considerations and constraints have
to be taken into account in deciding what proportion of total traffic should
travel each of the possible routes:
i.   Bottlenecks, or complete closure, can occur from time to
time on each of the routes, for prolonged periods of time.
ii.   When using the foreign routes, total transit costs on foreign
territory have to be paid in foreign currency at rates set by
the foreign country concerned.
iii.   The Shaba mining region is presently dependgnt on countries
to the south for some of its essential supplies, requiring
that balancing shipments of mineral products have to be
exported via these southern rail routes to meet the con-
ditions imposed by the foreign governments.
1.18      In recent years the Voie Nationale has carried some 50% of copper
from Shaba, and this proportion has remained fairly stable despite fluctua-
tions in total production. Because of uncertainties within Angola and
Mozambique, Zaire has become more commnitted to greater use of the Voie
Nationale through improving the operation of existing facilities and through
investments to increase capacity at points in the chain where bottlenecks are
likely to arise.
1.19      The Bank Group is currently assisting Zaire in improving capacity
and operations on the rail line between Matadi and Kinshasa and in the re-
habilitation and improvement of river transport on the Kasai and Zaire rivers.
It is also helping to finance studies for the improvement and expansion of
Matadi and Kinshasa ports. The remainLing portion of the Voie Nationale need-
ing attention is, therefore, the rail line from Ilebo to Lubumbashi and Ilebo
port itself. The present project is aimed principally at rehabilitating
and strengthening the capacity and operations of SNCZ on the Voie Nationale
section of its network, including Ilebo port.
1.20      Although it is technically possible to convert the Voie Nationale
artery into an all-rail connection, thereby eliminating river transport and
two transshipments between Shaba and the Atlantic Ocean, the very high cost
of the investment required, relative to the rather limited volumes moving
on the Voie Nationale at present, make the project of questionable economic
merit and its financing doubtful. Therefore, for the near and medium term
future, a commitment to transport greater volumes over the Voie Nationale
should be based on (a) more efficient utilization of existing infrastruc-
ture; (b) the maintenance, rehabilitatLon and modernization of this infra-
structure as and when required; and (c) selective investments to increase
capacity in line with the growth of traffic on the Voie Nationale.



- 6 -
E. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.21      In spite of the interdependence and complementarity between the
different transport modes, in the past transport policies and investments
were often decided without due regard for overall sector planning and inter-
modal coordination. At present, the institutional framework for overall
economic planning is somewhat weak, but transport sector planning is quite
effective. During 1977 the Economic Study and Planning Unit at the Department
of Transport and Communications (GEEP) was restructured and strengthened to
play a more important role in decision making in the transport sector. As a
result of the data collection and analyses by these two planning units,
increasingly favorable conditions are being created for preparing transport
policies and transport sector investment plans which are well balanced,
address the priority needs of the sector, and take account of the scarcity of
resources available for overall investment in the econcimy.
1.22      The 1977-1980 draft investment program for the sector prepared in
early 1977 by the Government gives a comprehensive overview of the situation
in the sector and its investment requirements. Its operational value for
investment planning purposes could be further enhanced if it could be inte-
grated in an economy-wide plan. GEEP has for a number of years carried out
a very extensive program of data collection and analysiLs, thereby building up
a most valuable data base. Recently it has been increasingly involved in
policy-oriented analyses. It has conducted a first major exercise in trans-
port coordination centered on investments in the Voie Nationale with the
collaboration of all the agencies involved in this crucial transport corridor.
1.23      However, better coordination of operations at inter-modal transfer
points, such as Ilebo, would contribute to improvement in the efficiency of
transport on the Voie Nationale. During negotiations, the Government agreed
to establish an Operations Coordination Unit in DOTC for this purpose, with
staff, powers and duties satisfactory to the Association.
F. Past Bank Group Role in Sector
1.24      The Government places considerable emphasis on the improvement of
its rail/river arterial network (Voie Nationale) and the establishment of an
effective road maintenance organization. The Bank Group agrees with both
objectives, and has supported them through two credits in the rail-river
subsector and three in the road subsector, all since independence (Annex 1).
1.25      Implementation of the rail/river projects (Credits 255-ZR and 571-ZR)
has been slow due to management weaknesses and procurement delays, and the
Government's inability to meet the local currency costs. The closing date of
the earlier credit has had to be extended from December 1973 to December 1979.
The future outlook is brighter since the Government's appointment of a compe-
tent Delegue General for ONATRA in 1976, the principal beneficiary of the



- 7 -
credit proceeds, who has succeeded in putting together a well-qualified
management team to put the agency back on its feet. Project implementation
hereafter is expected to be much more satisfactory. Most of the project
implementation problems, however, are not project specific but general
country-wide problems.



- 8 -
II. SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER ZAIROIS (SNCZ)
A. Introduction
2.01       SNCZ was established in 1974 to take over and manage the five sep-
arate companies that owned and operated the railways of Zaire. These were:
(a)  Chemin de Fer Katanga-Dilolo-Lubumbashi (KDL), which
operated in the Shaba region;
(b)  Chemin de Fer des Grand Lacs (CFL), which served the Lake
Tanganyika and Kivu regions;
(c)  Vicizaire Railway (VCZ), serving the Uele and Ituri regions
in the northeast;
(d)  Chemin de Fer Matadi a Kinshasa (CFMK), connecting Kinshasa
and the interior to Matadi, the country's only international
port; and
(e)  Chemin de Fer de Mayumbe (CFM), connecting; Boma and Tshela
in the western end of Zaire.
The last two, constituting the Western Region of SNCZ, continue temporarily
under ONATRA, CFMK in accordance with the terms of the agreement for Credit
571-ZR, and CFM because of its proximity to CFMK.
2.02      The heart of the SNCZ system is the former KDL which was based on
Lubumbashi and catered to the transport requirements of the mining companies
in the Shaba region and to transit traffic between Zambia and the port of
Lobito in Angola. SNCZ's headquarters continue to be in Lubumbashi with
a liaison office in Kinshasa.
B. Track
2.03      SNCZ operates 4,627 km of main line single track railway and some
100 km of industrial sidings. It is organized into four operating regions as
follows:



9-
Southern Region
Sakania-Tenke-Kamina                          855 km
Tenke-Dilolo                                  522 km
1,377 km
Central Region
Kamina-Ilebo                                  978 km
Eastern Region
Kamina-Kabalo-Kalemi                          720 km
Kabalo-Kindu                                  406 km
Ubundu-Kisangani                              125 km
1,251 km
Northern Region
Mungbere-Bumba                                868 km
Komba-Bondo                                   121 km
Andoma-Titule                                  32 km
1,021 km
2.04       Some 851 km of track located in the mining district in the southern
region (Lubumbashi-Tenke-Kamina and Tenke-Mutshatsha sections) is electrified.
The gauge is 1,067 mm except for the Ubundu-Kisangani section in the eastern
region (1,000 mm) and the northern region (600 mm).
2.05       Most of the rails (3,100 km) on the 1,067 mm track are 29 kg/m
and were laid during 1924-1930, with some renewals in the 1950's and in the
1970's. Only about 600 km of track has 40 kg/m rail most of which is 25 years
old.  The 1,000 mm track has 24 kg/ni rails and the 600 mm track has mostly
18 kg/m rails, almost all over 50 years old (Charts 18552 and 18553).
2.06       Steel sleepers are used all over the network except for 200 km with
wooden sleepers and 10 km of test track for concrete sleepers (originally
420 km of the track had wooden sleepers). Most of the steel sleepers are
over 50 years old and are now in poor condition.  The wooden sleepers are
all in poor condition although they are only 8 to 15 years old and were
treated before installation, mainly because they were reportedly not made from
the most suitable varieties of domestic timber.
2.07       The rails on more than 1,100 km of track between Luena, south of
Kamina, and Ilebo are badly worn. As this section also has a large number of
curves with radius of 200 m or less, derailments are frequent and, in spite of
speed restrictions, they are increasing in number. More than 80 short sections
totalling 200 km have speed restrictions, from the regular 45 km/h to between



- 10 -
ZAIRE
SNCZ - AGE OF RAIL
TITULE
BONDO 
(À          ~~~~32
` `        -)                ~~~~~~MUNGBERE
_KOMBA
BUMBA
KISANGANI
U UBtJNDU
Age of Rail
-= r      > 45 Y ears
_ _ 45-15 Years
< 15 Years
KINDU                    Figures in km
ILEBO                                          406
422
KANANGA                              e KABAI,0  KALEMI
246
556               ,4KABONGO
*    *" 201
KAM INA
`36
522 }~TENKE
DILOLO                               3<7
LUBUMBASHI
` 255
XSAKANIA
Worid Bank -18552



- IL -
ZAIRE
SNCZ - RAIL WEIGHT
TITULI
BONDO           32
121
s>) KOMBA                                       MUNGBERE
BUMBA
KISANGAN I
(t125
DUBUN DU
40 kg/m
-_____________ 29 kg/m
24 kg/m
KINDU                             Va,iious k,,ds 9 kg/m: 18 kg/m, 29 kg-m
\             ~~~~~Figures In km
I LEBO                                           406
`>422                                        `
KABALO
KANANGA                                                   KALEMI
246
"556                 ,:
556gv KABONGO
*201
KAMINA
363
522                  TENKE
DILOLO                                237
LUSUMBASH I
\255
SAKANIA
Wor d Bakn  18553



- 12 -
15-30 km/h, resulting in train delays of about 20 hours, compared with the
scheduled running time of 57 hours from Tenke to Ilebo. The train delays
increase turnaround time, and thus the number of locomotives and wagons
needed. Derailments and speed restrictions are now c;ausing such delays that
the traffic throughput on the whole Voie Nationale is being affected.
C. Signalling and Telecommunications
2.08      The signalling system in the southern, central and eastern regions,
except for the Kisangani-Ubundu section, is key-token. The other sections
have a train order system. The sections with key-token systems have the
following five train control offices controlling the respective sections:
Lubumbashi: Lubumbashi-Sakania;
Likasi    : Likasi-Lubumbashi, Likasi-Tenkes-Kamina, and
Tenke-Dilolo;
Kananga   : Kamina-Kananga-Ilebo;
Kabalo    : Kamina-Kabalo-Kindu; and
Kalemi    : Kalemi-Kabalo.
Train control offices for the other lines are located at Kisangani, Aketi
and Isiro.
2.09      Communication between the train control office and stations is
by regular telephone system. The system is old but fanctions satisfactorily
although spare parts will become difficult to obtain in the future and will,
therefore, need modernization. SNCZ has ordered a CTC signalling system for
the Likasi-Tenke section, to be in operation in mid-1979. This is the first
phase of a CTC system for the electrified sections of the network, to be
completed as traffic warrants.
D. Motive Power and Rolling Stock
2.10      Except for three steam locomotives in the northern region, SNCZ
motive power is diesel and electric (Chart 18551). All 56 main line electric
locomotives are in good condition, although 20 are 20 years old or more; they
had high availability in 1976 (91%), but low utilization due to the decline
in Zambian (transit) copper traffic. Of the 97 diesel main line locomotives,
only 8 are more than 20 years old and 81 less than 10 years old, but many of
them are out of service due to lack of spare parts, which has resulted in low
availability (56%) and high utilization.



-- 13 -
ZAIRE
SNCZ - TRAFFIC DENSITY
BUMBA                2            AKETI   (i0         3              ISIRO       1       MUNGEIERE
20       3OKmh
250
I K I SANGAN I
180
c-X ILEBO                                                 ;  é) UBUNDU
KINDU
725 \5,8
KANANGA                                           -50   45Kmh
500
45Kmh                                                06
725 _                              _ _           ABALO        400         0 KALEMI
725                                            KABALO
850          6           3            650500
500-900
KAMINA
750         66
86,6
45          KEammENKE
Dt;;-SHATSHAT700HA
52KM  >LIKASI
Legend                                                                   1
(9        - Passenger Trains Per Wee                               LUBUMBASHI I
2     Freight Tramns Per Day                                         \ i
45Krnh   Maximumr Speed 
725   Average Train Load, Gross Ton                                     60
800    Maximum Train Load, Gross Ton
Diesel Traction 45Kmh                                                            SAKmhIA
. Electric Traction 25Kv  52Kmh
VVorId Bank- 18551



- 14 -
2.11      The 65 diesel shunting locomotives are also a,ffected by lack of
spare parts. The availability is, however, somewhat higher (64%). Only 4
locomotives are more than 20 years old and 56 units less than 10 years old.
The shunting locomotives are generally in good conditic,n.
2.12      SNCZ has 338 passenger and service coaches arnd 30 motor coaches and
trailers. Of the passenger coaches, 250 are more than 20 years old, but most
of them are in acceptable condition. The 30 motor coaches, all less than 10
years old, are in good condition.
2.13      SNCZ has about 5,300 freight wagons in service, including about 300
privately owned ones, and operates a further 300 Zambian wagons. Of this
fleet, 2,400 are 20-35 years old and 1,400 more than 35 years old. About 800
wagons are in poor condition, 3,400 in acceptable condition, and 800 in good
condition.  The availability of the wagons is 87%; this could be higher but
for continued use of friction rather than roller bearings and lack of spare
parts generally.
2.14      During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the Government
that SNCZ will be allotted sufficient foreign exchange for the purchase of
spare parts needed for locomotive and rolling stock maintenance beyond the
period (1979-82) of the proposed project (para. 3.08).
E. Workshops
2.15      Workshops for maintenance of diesel locomotives and rolling stock
are located at Lubumbashi, Kalemi, Aketi and Isiro. Electric locomotives are
maintained at Likasi. In addition there are 20 depots for service of locomo-
tives and a number of running sheds for service and minor repair of coaches
and wagons. The workshops also maintain track maintenance equipment, signal-
ling and telecommunications equipment, and port equipment belonging to SNCZ.
At Kalemi, SNCZ has a shipyard for maintenance of ships operating on Lake
Tanganyika.
2.16      All workshops are in good condition and have equipment adequate to
their needs, although the Likasi depot is somewhat lacking in space and hence
congested. The workshops are well run and their work is good. The wagon
workshop in Lubumbashi is, for instance, building bodies for ore wagons and
rebuilding old freight wagons. The only work the workshops do not perform is
repair of transformers and traction motors, which is subcontracted to a work-
shop in Likasi owned by the Belgium locomotive manufacturer, ACEC.
F. Port Facilities
2.17      SNCZ operates two major ports, at Kalemi on Lake Tanganyika and
at Ilebo on the Kasai river. The port at Kalemi links SNCZ to the Tanzania
Railway system and the port of Ilebo links SNCZ to the ONATRA rail/river
services as part of the Voie Nationale.



- 15 -
2.18      Kalemi port has a capacity of 500 tons a day with two shifts.  The
quay is 130 m long and has three portal cranes, all old but in satisfactory
condition. Loading facilities are primitive. The capacity can be increased
without substantial investments through changes in working methods. The
bottleneck in the transport system to Dar es Salaam is the effective capacity
of the Tanzania Railway. Some 18,OOC tons of goods, mostly copper and zinc,
are awaiting shipment from Kalemi to Dar es Salaam.
2.19      The port of Ilebo has a capacity of 2,000 tons a day with three
shifts and, allowing for fluctuations in river and weather conditions,
450,000-500,000 tons a year. The quay is about 500 m long and is equipped
with eight portal cranes of 3 or 4 tons capacity and one fixed crane of 30
tons. The cranes are old but well maintained, with an average availability of
85%.  The main problems at Ilebo are (i) poor staff productivity, (ii) delays
in the movement of barges and wagons, and (iii) lack of container handling
facilities and storage areas for containers. The capacity cannot be increased
significantly without extension of the quay, rebuilding of the railway yard
and provision of additional loading f'acilities.
G. Organization, Management and Staff
2.20      SNCZ is headed by a Delegue General (DG) directly responsible to
the Minister of Transport and Communications. He is assisted by three senior
officials - one each for (a) engineering, (b) operations, and (c) administra-
tion. For operational purposes, SNCZ is divided into four regions, with the
Regional Manager responsible for all operations within his region (Chart
18555).
2.21      SNCZ's management is well cLualified and competent.  It continues
to be heavily dependent on expatriate staff at both senior and middle levels.
Both the DG and two of his three deputies are expatriates. There are al-
together some 180 expatriates in SNCZ down to the foreman level, with most
of them belonging to the permanent staff. This compares with around 500
expatriates employed at various levels in the late 60's and early 70's.
The number of expatriates needed will be halved in five years' time, as a
result of its training programs. SNCZ's total staff numbers 22,000, including
2,000 professional staff.
H. Training
2.22      SNCZ operates three training centers for workers up to foremen
level, specializing respectively in railway administration, track maintenance,
and locomotive and rolling stock maintenance and operation. The railway
administration training center is located at Lubumbashi and provides training
in such fields as personnel administration, movement of trains, tariff setting
etc; in 1976, this center trained 552 staff members in courses lasting from
one month to six months. The track maintenance center, also located at



- 16 -
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER ZAIROIS
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DIRECTOR -GENERAL 
DIRECTOR             DIRECTORF
OPERATIONS           TECHNICAL            SECRETARY      I
ffi ffi  MANAGER,   l   |   MANAGER,   l   |  CHIEF ;   l   MANAGER,
. 1  FINANCE    l  1   COMMERCIAL        MECHANICAL            PERSONNEL
r  M AN AG E R,      MAN TRAGER, F F I C  l  q    ECHIEF
PURCHASING  TRAFFIC            ~ELECTRICAL               EA
AND STORES                      ~~~~~~~ENGINEE-RADIE
FMANAGER,   l   |   MANAGER,   l   r    STUDIES                 MANAGER,
ORGANIZATION          SOUTHERN                 AND               ADMINISTRA-
AND TRAINING            REGION                      H               TION
INTERA  MANAGER,               CHIEF                 CHIEF
AUDITERNL     _     CENTRAL              ENGINEER,             MEDICAL
AUDIT          ~~~REGION             TRACK,               OFFICER
MANAG ER,              CH I EF             MANAG ER, |
_  EASTERN           É ENGINEER,            DATA
REGION             CIVIL WORKS           PROCESSING
r MANAGER, |
-| NORTHERN
REGION
BRUSSELS OFFICE J
KINSHASA OFFICE
World Bank-18555



- 17 -
Lubumbashi, provides training for track workers of all levels; during 1976,
staff trained at this center totalled 193, for an average training period
of four months. Finally, the technical training center at Likasi provides
training in mechanical, electrical and machine tool maintenance and opera-
tions for three different levels of personnel; in 1976, it was attended by
440 students for an average of six months each. The centers are well run
and produce competent personnel who have gradually moved up in SNCZ ranks,
enabling reduction in the number of expatriates employed.
2.23      The critical area in SNCZ's training requirements relates to senior
and middle management. At present training for these positions is mainly on
the job. In addition, SNCZ runs seminars and refresher courses periodically
and deputes staff to work with foreign railways to acquire experience. SNCZ
also practices extensive job rotation between the field and headquarters and
between functions. The programs have helped in the extensive transfer of
responsibilities from expatriates to Zairians in the last few years. While
the company had only 399 Zairians in the middle and senior management levels
in 1969 (KDL only), this number had increased to 1,220 in 1977. During the
same period, the number of Zairian university graduates in SNCZ employment
increased from 19 to 290, and the total number of expatriates employed
declined from 535 to 180.
2.24      Despite the recent progress, SNCZ has to find and train an adequate
number of Zairian staff to take over in the near future positions now occupied
by expatriates. Since a substantial amount of such training relates to oper-
ations, it should best be provided with an operating railway abroad, for which
provision is made in the proposed project (para. 3.11).
I. Past and Present Traffic
2.25      At the time SNCZ was created, KDL was by far the most important part
of the new system, and in 1975 the relative shares in total tons transported
were as follows: ex-KDL 94%, ex-CFL 5% and ex-VCZ 1%.
2.26      During the late 1960's and early 1970's, traffic growth cn the SNCZ
network was very rapid. From 1968 to 1974, freight transported grew from 4.5
million tons to 6.3 millions tons and from 1.7 billion ton/km to 2.8 billion
ton/km. 1/ Due to a number of unfavorable developments - the closure of the
Benguela (Angola) railway to Zairian traffic in August 1975, the depressed
world price of copper, and a decline in domestic economic activity - total
tons transported in 1976 fell back to the levels of the late 1960's. However,
because of the substantial passenger traffic (after the merging of the three
networks) and an increase in the average distance transported, total traffic
units 2/ did not decrease to the same extent as tons transported and, at 2.4
billion in 1976, were still above the levels reached in the 1960's:
1/   The figures for 1968 relate to the ex-KDL system.
2/   Ton-km plus one-half of passenger-km.



- 18 -
Past Traffic on SNCZ
1968      1971       1974       197'5     1976      1977
Freight ('000 tons)
Minerals
Exports              767        870       975        77:3       611      632
Local              1,771      2,158     2,150      2,054      2,039    1,787
Transit              281        375       889        465         -
General Cargo
Imports              342        510       601        576        481      750
Exports               20         il         37        44         12         -
Domestic             842      1,034     1,298      1,200      1,304    1,222
Service                 458        541        390       267        157       202
Baggage                  -           1          1        -           1         1
Total           4,481     5,500      6,341      5,379     4,605    4,594
Passengers ('000)    1,584       2,636     2,164      2,866      2,616    1,078
2.27      The earlier rapid growth and subsequent drop in traffic occurred in
all three main categories of traffic - mineral, transit and general cargo -
but was most pronounced in transit traffic. Zambian transit traffic reached
a peak in 1974 when close to 900,000 tons of Zambian imports and exports tra-
velled on the SNCZ network over a distance of some 1,0()0 km. In 1975 transit
traffic stood at just over half that of 1974.  In 1976 there was no transit
traffic as the Lobito route remained closed to Zairian traffic.
2.28      The closure of- the Lobito route also unfavorably affected Zairian
mineral traffic.  Total mineral exports, which had been growing steadily from
0.77 million tons in 1968 to 0.97 million tons in 1974, dropped to 0.61 mil-
lion tons in 1976. This steady decrease was primarily the result of the loss
of some 300,000 tons of manganese ore export traffic via Lobito. However,
since this traffic travelled only some 70 km on the SNCZ network, the impact
on total ton/km transported was less severe. In addition, the closure of the
Lobito route temporarily affected copper production anid hence exports, as
essential imports for mining activities were blocked in Angola on their way to
Shaba or had to be rerouted, with the result that temporary shortages occurred,
adversely affecting production. During 1976 copper production and exports
never reached the levels of the early seventies. Finally, the much greater
use of the southern and eastern export routes, which involve a much shorter
haul on the SNCZ network than the Lobito route, had a negative effect on total
ton/km of traffic on SNCZ.



- 19 -
2.29      General cargo traffic comprises imports, domestic agricultural pro-
duce, and some semi-manufactured and f inished local products. Import traffic
increased rapidly from 340,000 tons in 1968 to some 600,000 tons in 1974.
Then, largely due to the balance of payments problems of Zaire in recent
years, this traffic fell to 480,000 tons in 1976. The closure of the Lobito
route had an additional negative impact on ton/km since a larger reliance of
Shaba on imports from the south and the east entails much shorter hauls on the
SNCZ network which was not offset by the longer hauls for traffic diverted to
the Voie Nationale.   Domestic general cargo traffic, on the other hand, was
not affected by these developments and continued to grow steadily:  from
842,000 tons in 1968, it reached a volume of 1.3 million tons in 1976.
2.30      Due to a slowdown in track maintenance and deferral of track renewal,
service traffic has been declining since the late sixties, when it reached
more than 600,000 tons/year, to 157,000 tons in 1976.
2.31      Passenger traffic grew steadlily in the late sixties reaching 2.9
million passengers in 1970, but dropped sharply in 1972 when the lowest
(fourth) class was abolished. Since then this traffic has picked up again
and, with the merging of the three rail networks which now constitute the
northern, eastern and southern/central regions, the total SNCZ network carried
2.6 million passengers in 1976. In 1977, however, the low availability of
motive power led to a steady reductiorn in the number of passenger trains and,
in turn, to a decrease in passenger traffic.
J. Budget, Accounts, Audit and Insurance
2.32      The Delegue General is empowered to approve SNCZ's revenue and in-
vestment budgets, which detail planned current and capital expenditures in
the forthcoming year. The Investment Plan, which usually covers a five-year
period, is approved by the Transport and Communications Minister. Annual
accounts are sent to the Minister together with a report on SNCZ's activities
during the year.
2.33      SNCZ's accounting system does not comply with the "Plan Comptable
Zairois", issued recently by the Government, which is mandatory for all public
and private corporations operating in Zaire. The stated objective of the new
"Plan Comptable" is to reduce the individual accounting systems to a common
form to facilitate the preparation of national accounts and to estimate
important parameters such as value added, gross savings, gross fixed capital
formation, financing capacity and requirements, etc. The implementation of
the new Plan should not raise too many difficulties for SNCZ.
2.34      In the present system, revenues and expenses are analyzed by location
(by region and district) and by categories. This enables management to effec-
tively monitor and control each district's financial performance, but it pro-
vides little guidance for designing tariffs, because the revenues and costs



- 20 -
of specific transport services are difficult to isolate.  To facilitate this,
during negotiations SNCZ informed the Bank that it has set up a traffic
costing unit. Financing of experts' services to help this unit for an initial
period of about six months is included in the project (para. 3.11).
2.35      SNCZ's financial statements have not been regularly audited since
1974 when Coopers & Lybrand assisted in establishing thie opening balance
sheet and helped to set up an Internal Audit Department.  However, in accor-
dance with the understanding reached between the Bank and SNCZ, the same firm
has recently completed the audit of 1976 and 1977 accounts. It was agreed
with SNCZ that suitable arrangements for regular future audit would continue
to be made.
2.36      With the exception of the truck and automobile fleets, which are
insured against third party claims, and of some buildings, insured against
fire and water damage, SNCZ is self-insured for all activities. These ar-
rangements are in line with industry practice, and are satisfactory.
2.37      Tariffs are based on 13 commodity classes and distance travelled.
SNCZ maintains costs and revenues on the basis of major categories of trans-
port services - passenger traffic, local mining traffic, export mining
traffic, general goods, etc. - but not on the basis of each class of com-
modity, and attempts to revise the tariffs so that revenues from each category
of service rémain in line with the corresponding costs including depreciation.
However, tariff revisions have to be approved by the Minister of Transport
and Communications.  Tariffs were increased yearly since 1976 - by 75% in July
1976 for copper and zinc exports; by 60% in August 1976, for all other catego-
ries; by 30% for all categories in July 1977 when SNCZ's tariffs were realigned
with CFMK's; and by 15% again for all but mining traffic in February 1978.
However, due to implementation delays coupled with high inflationary pressures,
the tariff increases granted in the past did not allow SNCZ to cover its oper-
ating losses. During negotiations, the Government informed the Association
that it had approved a further 80% increase in freight tariffs and a 50% in-
crease in passenger fares, or 76% overall, effective March 1, 1979; it was
also agreed that the tariffs will be reviewed later this year on the basis of
the findings of the traffic costing unit, the impact of the new amortization
policy based on replacement cost, and the secondary effects of the Zaire
currency devaluation on local costs which will be clearer by then.
K. Problems Facing SNCZ
2.38      Since its establishment four years ago, SNCZ has suffered from many
problems partly stemming from its attempts to integrate three very different
railway systems. Its principal problems are the follcwing:



- 21 -
(a) Until recently, about one-fifth of SNCZ's revenues were con-
tributed by the Zambian transit traffie from and to Lobito
in Angola. Since August 1975, however, due to the closure
of the Lobito route through Angola, Zambia is moving its
traffic through other routess, principally via Dar es Salaam,
and SNCZ has thus lost this important traffic with a con-
sequent impact on its finances.
(b) Simultaneously, a significant volume of Zairian (Shaba) traffic
which was using the Angola route, has had to be re-routed to the
other routes. This has incluced a change in the traffic flows
and operational orientation of SNCZ, while simultaneously high-
lighting emerging bottlenecks on the Voie Nationale. The most
important of these are the track condition ,on the main line
between Shaba and Ilebo anci the port of Ilebo itself.
(c) Rail track maintenance has been neglected for many years, adding
to SNCZ's problems. As a result the number of accidents has gone
up, causing speed restrictions to be imposed, especially on the
main line to Ilebo. This lias increased turnaround time and
reduced utilization and traffic capacity.
(d)  On top of the problems of maintenance of track, SNCZ also has
problems in the maintenance! of motive power and rolling stock
due to lack of spare parts resulting from the country's
foreign exchange problems.
2.39      The proposed project is designed to help SNCZ to restore the railway
to an acceptable level of operational efficiency.



- 22 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Scope of the Project
3.01      To deal with the problems facing it, SNCZ has drawn up a four-year
investment plan involving a total investment of about US$120 million equiva-
lent at 1976 prices. It has also prepared a longer-range program for reha-
bilitation and improvement of track. The proposed project comprises SNCZ's
most urgent investment requirements for the years 1979-1982 and is an integral
part of its long-range program for track rehabilitation and operational
improvements. It will enable SNCZ to make essential rehabilitation invest-
ments, begin restoration of line capacity to normal levels, increase fleet
utilization and thus effective capacity to meet traffie demands, and improve
availability and utilization of locomotives and rolling stock. This will be
achieved by:
(a) improving track by renewing and upgrading 210 km and
ballasting another 285 km;
(b) purchasing 100 hopper wagons, 9 shunting locomotives
and 12 passenger coaches;
(c) providing spare parts to improve maintenance and avail-
ability of locomotives and wagons;
(d) improving maintenance, telecommunications, data processing
and handling equipment and facilities;
(e) extending and improving Ilebo port facilities; and
(f)  providing for training of Zairian staff in middle and
top management.
B. Details of the Project
i.   Track
3.02      About 65% of the rails in the southern and eiastern regions are
more than 45 years old.  Rail on more than 700 km of the important section
from Lubumbashi to Ilebo has deteriorated close to the limits of safe train
operation and speed restrictions have been imposed on about 200 km of the
section. Sleepers and fasteners are also badly worn. The project provides
for upgrading the worst 210 km of this section and ballasting of another
285 km of track.



- 23 -
3.03      Ballast needed for the track improvement will be obtained by opening
a quarry close to the sections concerned, as the present quarries are too far
and do not in any case have sufficient capacity to meet the extra requirements.
Provision is also made in the project for the construction of a concrete sleeper
plant and for the purchase of related maintenance and service equipment, should
the study of the economic availability of local wood for sleepers prove to be
inconclusive.
ii. Rolling Stock
3.04      Wagons used in the ore traffic are on the average loaded close to
their maximum capacity.   Wagon turnaround time is a low 3.7 days which is
acceptable. Improvements in average load and turnaround time cannot release
sufficient capacity needed for the expected increase in ore traffic of 136
million ton-km (43%) by 1983. After allowing for some operational improve-
ments (para. 3.21), SNCZ will require 570 hopper wagons, an increase of at
least 100 over its present fleet, which the project provides for.
3.05      General freight traffic is expected to increase from 1,700 million
ton-km in 1976 to 2,260 million ton-kmc in 1983 - or by 560 million ton-km
(33%). SNCZ is already short of wagons since 800 wagons (in good condition)
are impounded in Angola. Although SNCZ has about the same number of Angola
wagons in Zaire, these are in poor condition. Most of them also have friction
bearings and are for that reason not allowed to operate outside Zaire, thus
reducing their use.
3.06      Passenger coaches at present have high utilization, with average
seat occupancy of about 80%, with over 100% occupancy being quite common.
Passenger traffic is expected to increase by 3% per year over the next few
years. The project provides for 12 new coaches to handle this increase.
iii. Locomotives
3.07      The planned growth in mineral production as well as the forecast
increase in traffic at Ilebo port will require more shunting locomotives. The
anticipated increase in shunting locomotive availability will not meet the
entire additional requirement of such locomotives. Therefore, the project
provides for the required nine new locomotives. The present number of line
diesel locomotives is sufficient to meet long haul traffic needs, provided the
expected increases in availability and utilization are realized. There is
currently a surplus of line electric locomotives due to inactivity on the line
to Angola which is mostly electrified. Should traffic on the Lobito route
resume at the expected level of about 500,000 tons/year, this surplus will
cease.
iv. Spare Parts
3.08      The availability of diesel locomotives is low, especially for main
line locomotives (56%) and that of wagons somewhat on the low side (87%). The



- 24 -
main reason is lack of spare parts arising from the country's poor balance of
payments situation. Availability can improve to acceptable levels (80% for
locomotives and 90% for wagons) only if spare parts are provided for proper
maintenance and repair. The project provides for spare parts for the 1979-
1982 requirements of SNCZ (para 2.14).
v.   Workshop, Telecommunication, and Data Processing Facilities
3.09      To help further improve servicing and maintenance of locomotives
and rolling stock, the project provides for extension of the Likasi depot,
replacement of oxygen plant past its economic life, machine tools for the
workshops, and handling equipment. It also provides for improved tele-
communication and data processing facilities to help improve operations.
vi. Ilebo Port
3.10      Ilebo port handled some 400,000 tons of traffic in 1976.  In the
next few years, the traffic is expected to increase to above 600,000 tons.
Ilebo port will then become the next bottleneck in the Voie Nationale system.
To avoid this and to handle the anticipated traffic growth, up to about 1985,
the project provides for extension of the quay by 300 m, a new warehouse,
container facilities and other cargo handling equipment.
vii. Training and Consultant Services
3.11      The first phase of a program to train Zairians at middle and senior
technical and management levels for taking over all responsibility for SNCZ's
management and operations in the next ten years is included in the project.
This program includes: (i) the training of a sufficient number of Zairians at
middle and senior technical and managerial levels to meet SNCZ's requirements
for qualified staff, both in Zaire and abroad, with foreign railroads or for
post-graduate university studies, for about two years; (ii) short term on-the-
job training to update the quality of middle management staff including track
and workshop foremen, station masters, accountants, etc; and (iii) on-the-job
training for engineers and technicians to train them for repairing locomotive
engines and transformers. Provision is also included for consultant services
to help SNCZ evaluate the availability of local timber suitable for the
manufacture of wooden sleepers and to help SNCZ in establishing the traffic
costing unit.
viii. Staff Housing and Facilities
3.12      In most towns and villages along the railway, SNCZ is the principal
or sole employer. The railway, therefore, provides housing for its employees
as well as medical and social facilities, etc. No improvements have been made
to these for a number of years. To retain its staff, the railway has to
improve the housing and other facilities, for which provision is made in the
project.



- 25 -
C. Cost Estimates
3.13      The project cost is estimated at US$161.50 million equivalent.  Of
this, US$105.95 million equivalent is in foreign exchange and US$55.55 million
equivalent represents local costs, of which US$3.70 million equivalent is local
taxes. Details of the cost estimates are given on the next page.
3.14      The cost estimates are based on recent quotations and bids for simi-
lar materials and equipment, updated to 1979 prices. Physical contingencies
of 20% have been provided for Ilebo port works only, as the quantities for the
other items can be considered as fixed. Price contingencies for materials and
equipment have been provided according to Bank Group escalation rates (1979
- 7.5%; 1980-82 - 7%). For local cost, it is assumed that the depreciation
rate of the zaire will closely follow the local inflation rate, but to allow
for time lags in adjustments, a somewhat higher provision has been made
(about 35% of base cost).
D. Financing and Procurement
3.15      Of the total cost of the project amounting to US$161.50 million
equivalent, the foreign cost of US$105.95 million will be met from external
borrowings and the local cost of US$55.55 million by SNCZ from internal re-
sources. It is proposed that the Bank Group provide a credit of US$20.0
million. The remainder of the foreign costs will be met from other sources,
principally the Saudi Fund (US$35.0 million equivalent), KfW (US$25.0 mil-
lion equivalent), ADB (US$9.6 million equivalent), and the OPEC Special
Fund (US$7.0 million equivalent). These were confirmed during credit
negotiations. The effectiveness of these financing arrangements, as well
as the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
SNCZ, are conditions of credit effectiveness. The balance of foreign cost
(US$9.35 million equivalent) would be met from Government and other bilateral
sources (e.g. USAID, U.K. and Belgium). The foreign exchange financing plan
is as follows (page 27):



- 26 -
ZAIRE
Cost Estimates - 1979 Prices
(US$ '000)                      Foreign
Exchange
Local       Foreign          Total           (%)
A.  TRACK
1. Relaying, resleepering and ballasting
(210 km) and ballasting only (285 km)          23,100        15,700         38,800           40
2.  Concrete sleeper plant                             200         3,800         4,000           95
3.  Quarry equiipment                                  100         2,200          2,300          96
4.  Track maintenance equipment                        200         7,500          7,700          97
5.  Service equipment                                   50         3,050          3,100          98
Sub-Total                           23,650        32,250         55,900           58
B.  LOCOMOTIVES AND ROLLING STOCK
1.  Diesel shunters (9)                               200          4,300         4,500           96
7.  Hopper wagons (100)                               300          5,600         5,900           95
3.  Passenger coaches (12)                             100         3,000         3,100           97
Sub-Total                              600        12,900         13,500           96
C.  SPARE PARTS
1.  Rehabilitation                                  1,800         20,000         21,800          92
2.  Maintenance                                       400          8,000         8,400           95
Sub-Total                            2,200        28,000         30,200           93
D.  WORKSHOPS AND SERVICE EQUIPMENT
1.  Likasi depot extension                            600            600          1,200          50
2.  Machine tools                                     100          1,700          1,800          94
3.  Oxygen plant                                      150            500            650          77
4.  Handling equipment                                 100         2,100          2,200          95
5.  Workshop equipment                                 100         1,250          1,350          93
6.  Telecommunications, etc.                           200           650            850           76
7.  Data Processing Center                            200          3,200         3,400           94
Sub-Total                           1,450         10,000         11,450           87
E.  ILEBO PORT
1.  Equipment                                         300          1,100          1,400          79
2.  Civil works                                     2,000          2,000         4,000           50
Sub-Total                            2,300         3,100          5,400           57
F.  STAFF HOUSING, MEDICAL FACILITIES                    5,000          2,100         7,100           30
G.  TRAINING AND CONSULTANT SERVICES                     1,500          2,500         4.,000          63
H.  LOCAL TAXES1(                                        3,700            -           3,700            0
1.  TOTAL WITHOUT CONTINGENCIES                         40,400        90,85         131,250           69
J.  PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                 400            400           800           50
K.  PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                 14,750         14,700)       29,450           50
L.  TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES                            55 550        105,95        161,500           66
1/ 3% tax on each item except on D 7 (Data Processing Center).
February 1979



- 27 -
Foreign Exchange Financing Plan
(US$ million)
IDA   OPEC   SF    KfW   ADB   Other   Total
A.  Track                    7.0    3.5  16.5  10.5    -        -      37.5
B. Locomotives and
Rolling Stock           3.5      -    5.0   6.5    -       -       15.0
C.  Spare Parts             5.0    3.5   8.5   4.5   3.0    8.0        32.5
D. Workshop and
Service Equipment       1.5      -    2.5   3.5   3.0    0.95    11.45
E.  Ilebo Port                -      -     -      -    3.6    0.4       4.0
F. Staff Housing, Medical
Facilities, etc.         -       -    2.5    -      -      -        2.5
G. Training and
Consultant Services    3.0       -     -     -      -      -        3.0
Total            20.0    7.0  35.0  25.0   9.6    9.35   105.95
3.16      Equipment and material financed by the Bank Group will be obtained
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guide-
lines except for:
(a) small orders for under US$50,000 each, but for not
more than US$500,000 in total; and
(b) critical spare -parts which are available only from
the original equipment manufacturers. The amount
involved is estimated at about US$2.0 million.
These items will be procured through selective competitive bidding.
3.17      Items involved in Bank Group financing are part of the track mate-
rial, quarry equipment, part of the loczomotive and wagon spare parts, part of
the data processing equipment, passenger coaches, training and technical
assistance. There is no domestic preference.



- 28 -
E. Disbursements
3.18      The proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed as follows on contracts
financed by the Association:
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for track material
and quarry equipment or 75 percent for imported equipment
procured locally;
(b)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for spare parts, or
75 percent if purchased in Zaire ; and
(c)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for passenger coaches,
data processing center, and training and consultant services.
The schedule of estimated disbursements is as follows:
IBRD Fiscal Year          Disbursements          Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter             during Quarter             at end of_quarter            %
(US$'000)                   (US$'000)
1980
December 31, 1979                100                        100                  0.5
March 31, 1980                   150                        250                  1.25
June 30, 1980                    250                        500                  2.5
1981
September 30, 1980               500                      1,000                  5.0
December 31, 1980                500                      1,500                  7.5
March 31, 1981                   500                      2,000                 10.0
June 30, 1981                  1,000                      3,000                 15.0
1982
September 30, 1981            2,000                       5,000                 25.0
December 31, 1981             2,000                       7,000                 35.0
March 31, 1982                2,000                       9,000                 45.0
June 30, 1982                 3,000                      12,000                 60.0
1983
September 30, 1982            2,000                      14,000                70.0
December 31, 1982             2,000                      16,000                80.0
March 31, 1983                2,000                      18,000                 90.0
June 30, 1983                 2,000                      20,000               100.0
F. Project Execution, Environment and Employment
3.19      SNCZ, which will have direct responsibility for execution of the
project, is competent to do so.  'ne project implementation schedule was dis-
cussed and agreed during negotiations (Chart 18550).



ZAIRE
SNCZ - RAILWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Caiendar Year          1979                    1980                    1981                    1982
Quarter   1 |2    3         4    1            3     4     1 j   2    3     4      1     2    3      4
1TRACK
a. Prepare specifications and tender documents
b  Advertise, receive tenders, evaluate, award
c. Delivery of track maintenance and quarry equipment
d. Preparat,on of track relaying
e. Delivery of track equipment and material
f. Relaymng of track
2  ROLLING STOCK
a. Prepare spec;f,cat,o"s d  tenider documents
b. Advertise, receive tenders, evaluate, award
c  Delivery                                                                                                         1-
3  LOCOMOTIVES
a. Prepare specifications arnd tender documenits
b Advertise, receive tenders, evaluate, awvard
c  Deliver y
4. SPARE PARTS AND EQUIPMENT
a  Prepare specifications and tender documents
b. Advertise, recetve tenders, eevaluate, award
c. Deltvery
d. Installation
5  ILEBO PORT
a. Design and preparation of tender documents
h  Advertsse, receive tenders, evaluate, award
c Delhvery of material and equipment
d. Constructio,i
6. TRAINING
WorId Bank -18550



- 30 -
3.20      The project will not have any adverse effect on the envi-ronment, nor
on employment.
G. Operational Targets
3.21      The project is based upon the following improvements in operational
norms discussed during the field appraisal, and agreed during negotiations:
Actual      Objectives
1976     1980      1982    1984
1.   Average locomotive availability (%)
(a)  Main line electric                        85        85        85       85
(b)  Main line diesel                          56        60        75       75
(c)  Shunting diesel                           64        70        72       75
2.   Productivity per available locDmotive
per year (locomotive-km '000)
(a)  Main line electric                        68        80        90      100
(b)  Main line diesel                          85        85        90       90
3.   Average wagon availability (%)                  82        82        85      90
4.   Average turnaround time (in days)
(a)  general freight                           13.9      12.0      12.0    12.0
(b)  ore                                         3.7      3.1       3.1      3.0
5.   Average wagon load (tons)                       25        25        26      28
6.   Productivity per available wagon per
year (ton-km '000)                            345       375       400      450
7.   Staff productivity ('000 traffic units 1/
per employee)                                 104       120       160      180
1/   Ton-km of freight plus passenger-km.
3.22      The availability of electric locomotives is high (85%) and is not
expected to increase any further. The availability of diesel locomotives, how-
ever, is low due to lack of spare parts. Provision of spare parts and mainte-
nance facilities will help to improve their availability considerably. For the
same reason wagon availability is expected to increase somewhat. Productivity
of electric locomotives is lower than normal due to loss of Zambian (transit)
copper traffic. Their utilization is expected to increase with the increase
in copper traffic on the Voie Naticnale. In addition to the lack of spare
parts, low utilization of diesel locomotives and wagons is also caused by the
poor track condition, with frequent derailments and speed restrictions. When
the worst parts of the track to Ilebo are upgraded, the turriaround time of
locomotives and wagons will improve and so will their utilization. The proj-
ect will have a measurable impact on railway operations from 1982. onwards.



- 31 -
IV. ECONOMI]C EVALUATION
A. Forecast of Future Traffic
4.01      Future traffic on the SNCZ network is related to a number of factors
such as growth of the mining activities in Shaba, the level of activity of
the Zaire economy in general and deveiopments in neighboring countries.  The
level of activity in mining and the economy in general will determine the
volume of traffic in tons transported, whereas developments in neighboring
countries will have an impact on ton/km transported and on transit traffie.
4.02       Due to the state of recession in Zaire in 1976 and to the constraints
under which SNCZ has had to operate, traffic levels that year were exceptional-
ly low. Recent events in Shaba have also adversely affected traffic carried
in 1978 but a further decline in traffic is not envisaged (paras. 2.26 to
2.29). Based on the traffic forecasts prepared by GEEP, and reviewed by the
Bank, from 1979 onwards economic activity and rail traffic are expected
slowly to pick up again as summarized below (detailed table on next page):
Traffic: Forecasts
1978        1981        1984         1987
(est.)
Freight ('000 tons)
Mineral
Exports                  562         650        796          802
Local                  1,525      2,000       2,538        2,549
Transit                    -           -           -
General Cargo
Imports                 696         800         895           923
Domestic               1,200       1,507       1,646        1,799
Service                    200         500         500          500
Baggage                      1           1           1            2
Total         4,184       5,458       6,376        6,575
Passengers ('000)        2,-00       3,030       3,310        3,620
4.03      As regards mineral traffic, the production plans of the mining
concerns - Gecamines, SODEMIZA and Tenke-Fungurume - should bring about a
significant increase in mining export traffic from the 600,000 tons at present
to about 800,000 tons in 1984. Local mining traffic will increase in step
with the increase in the production of copper and other minerals, from some
1.8 million tons at present to some 2.5 million tons in 1984. No increase
beyond 1984 is projected in view of the uncertainties of the situation. The
manganese ore traffic, which was running at some 300,000 tons/year until 1975,
and the (copper) transit traffic from Zambia, will resume when the Benguela
railway and Lobito port are opened to Zairian traffic. When this happens,
these two items of traffic will increase the freight tons carried by SNCZ and
more than offset the drop in ton-km (and revenue) likely to be caused by any
possible diversion of part of the forecast Zairian export traffic from the
Voie Nationale to the Lobito route (see also para. 4.08).



- 32 -
ZAIRE
RAILWAY PROJECT
Traffic Forecast by Category and Route
(000 tons)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
(act.)  (est.)
Mineral Exports
Copper Exports:
via Matadi                216      211      200      230      250      270      296      303      323      325      327
Kalemi/DES            45        22       20       20       30       45       45       65       65       65       65
S3kania/DES/RSA      195      147      130      150      160      190      192       207     187      185       183
456      380      350      400      440      505      533      575      575      575      575
Other Mineral Exports:
via Matadi                 34       43       46       56       60       63       66       68       70       72       73
Kalemi/DES            30        18       25       25       25       25       25       25       25       25       25
Sakania/DES/RSA        3         1        2        2        2        2        2        2        3        3        3
67       62       73       83       87       90       93       95      98       100      101
Copper concentrates
via Sakania/DES/RSA       109      120      120      120      122      124      126      126      126      126      126
Sub- Total        632       562      543      603      649      719      752      796      799      801      802
Mineral - Local                1,787    1,525   1,500   1,800   2,000   2,438   2, 2,5 38              2,541   2,545   2,549
General Cargo Imports
Fuel - Matadi              39       72       65       75       85       95      194      202      218      234      242
- Sakania            92       66       75       75       75       75       -        _        -        -        -
General - Matadi          124      160      175      181      187      193      200      210      242      253      265
Kalemi          il       20       20       25       25       25       25       25       25       25       25
Sakania        102       80      120      125      125      125      145      145      145      145      145
Maize,coke, coal:
Sakania        356      260      260      245      245      245      245      245      245      245      245
Acid, sulphur,
Sakania      26        38       48      58       58       58        68       68        1        1        1
Sub-Total          750      696      763      784      800      816      877      895      876      903      923
General Cargo - Local          1,222    1,200   1,390   1,433   1,507   1,552    1,599   1,646   1,696   1,748   1,799
Service                          203      200      300      400      500      sQO       500     500      500      500      500
Baggage                             1        1        1        1        1       1         1        1        2        2        2
TOTAL             4,595    4,184   4,497   5,021   5,457   6,026    6,267  6,376   6,414    6,499   6575
Local                     3,009   2,725   2,890   3,233   3,507    3,990    4,137   4,184   4,237    4,293  4,348
via Matadi                  413      486      486      542      582      621      756      783     853       884    907
Kalemi/DES               86       60      65       70       80       95       95       115     115       115    115
Sakania/DES/RSA        883      712      755      775      787      819      778      793      707       705    703
Other                       204      201      301      401    5so        501      501      501      502      502      502
Source: Bank Staff
October 1978



- 33 -
4.04      General cargo traffic is expected to show steady growth over the
next ten years. General cargo import traffie is projected on the whole to
grow modestly, because some of the essential inputs for the mines, such as
acid and sulphur, will be produced locally from the second half of the
1980's. Also, increases in the local production of maize should help to meet
the growth in Shaba's demand for this staple product. Domestic general cargo
traffic, which is composed of agricultural produce and cargo such as gravel,
cement, building materials, sugar and beer, is projected to grow at the rate
of 3% per annum, about the rate of growth in the country's population.
4.05      Service traffic should start: growing again in view of the renewed
emphasis of the SNCZ management on track maintenance and the initiation of a
track renewal program under this project. A level of 500,000 tons/year is
projected to be achieved from 1981 onw7ards.
4.06      Passenger traffic is expected to return to normal by next year and
then to continue to grow at some 3% per annum on average from 2.6 million
passengers transported in 1976 to 3.6 million in 1987. This is in line with
the country's population growth and reflects the demand mostly for business
and work-related travel.
4.07      Turning to future traffic on the different sections of the SNCZ net-
work expressed in ton/km, developments in neighboring countries will determine
the actual outcome. The SNCZ network feeds at three different points into
other rail networks which provide access via different routes to different sea-
ports. As already noted, the railway network and the ports of Angola and
Mozambique are at present closed to Zairian traffic.  Also, on foreign routes,
priority will always be given to national traffic over Zairian traffic.
4.08      In view of the uncertainties surrounding the other routes, the Zaire
Government has adopted a policy aimed at transporting, and providing transport
facilities for, an increasing volume of imports and exports via the Voie
Nationale, to ensure greater Zairian control over its vital export routes to
the sea. SNCZ will benefit from carrying larger volumes on its longest section
and the shippers will benefit from added independence and assurance for inter-
national transport of both imports and exports to and from Shaba.
4.09      The Economic Study and Planning Unit (GEEP) of DOTC has examined the
transport flows associated with, and the investment implications of, three dif-
ferent alternative scenarios on access to the sea for Shaba's traffic. The
first and second alternatives assume that the status quo wilL be maintained
till 1990, that is, the Angolan and Mozambique routes will remain closed to
Zairian traffic. In addition it is assumed in the first alternative that
traffic via the southern routes will stabilize at current levels, whereas in
the second alternative it is assumed that this traffie will gradually decline.
The third alternative assumes that the routes to the south of Zambia will be
closed from 1981. Alternative 1 has been adopted for the present projections.
It is probably pessimistic with regard to the Lobito route and optimistic with
regard to the southern and eastern railway networks and ports. In any case,
the economic justification for the project is not critically dependent on these
projections (see para. 4.22).



- 34 -
4.10      A major result of this approach is that for the next 10 years no
transit traffic is projected for SNCZ. It also implies that all future in-
creases in copper production will be exported via the Voie Nationale. Traffic
flows on the rail section from Shaba to Ilebo are expected to grow from some
430,000 tons in 1977 to 900,000 tons by 1987. Traffic flows on the Kalemi/Dar
es Salaam route are projected to grow modestly from some 97,000 tons in 1977
to 115,000 tons in 1984. Finally, transport flows via the Sakania/Dar es
Salaam or South Africa route are projected to stabilize at some 700,000
tons/year by the mid-1980s, compared with some 800,000 tons in 1977.
B. Objective of the Project
4.11      To meet the transport requirements of the Shaba region, in the long
run it would be desirable for Zaire to reach an understanding with the neigh-
boring countries, particularly Angola through which the all-rail route to
Lobito lies. At the same time, the Government has decided to try to meet the
transport demands, in particular the export traffic demands, of the Shaba
region via the Voie Nationale as much as possible. For this purpose it is
essential to renew and upgrade SNCZ's facilities. Road transport provides no
practical alternative to SNCZ for the long-haul transport of mineral products.
Export transport demands could to some extent be met by making more extensive
use of railway services in friendly neighboring countries but, by doing so,
Zaire would incur a significantly higher economic cost and continue to run the
risk of loss of service when national demands in these countries required all
available or increasing volumes of services.
4.12       In the absence of the proposed rehabilitation investments, the effec-
tive capacity of SNCZ will decline rapidly, making it a critical bottleneck on
the Voie Nationale. The proposed railway project will help avoid such a situ-
ation. It is the first phase of a program aimed at enabling SNCZ to continue
to meet existing and increased transport demands by (a) upgrading the track on
selected sections of the network needing improvement on a priority basis, and
providing the equipment to carry out the upgrading and to maintain the track;
(b) providing rolling stock and diesel shunting locomotives to meet the
increase in mineral movements; and (c) the procurement of spare parts to
improve the availability of existing diesel main-line and shunting locomotives.
C. Project Benefits and Economic Return
4.13      For purposes of economic evaluation, the various components of the
project were analyzed separately, ta the extent they would generate benefits
of their own, as distinct from the overall benefit of additional traffic
carrying capacity on the SNCZ portion of the Voie Nationale. For the evalua-
tion of the project as a whole, benefits (of the various components) which



- 35 -
arise purely from choice of the most economic means of accomplishing the
overall goal were ignored, in order to avoid double counting. The economic
costs and benefits of the project were estimated by applying a shadow rate
for Zaire of half the official rate, and projected over the estimated average
useful economic life of 25 years for the proposed investments.
i.   Track Upgrading
4.14      At a number of points on the Bukama-Ilebo section, the track is in
very poor condition, causing an increasing number of derailments, necessi-
tating much more intense track maintenance, and imposing restrictions on
train speeds, which, in turn, means that a larger fleet of locomotives and
wagons is required to carry the same amount of traffic. Further deterioration
of the track will reduce SNCZ's effective capacity to carry mineral exports,
requiring that larger quantities of these exports will have to be shipped
via the rail networks of neighboring countries at greater cost.  Implementa-
tion of the project will generate the following savings:
(a) Derailment cost: In recent years SNCZ has had 11 derail-
ments per month on average <lue mainly to the poor track
condition. This figure has been increasing and is expected
to increase further as a result of the deteriorating condi-
tion of the track in general. It is estimated that without
the project at least half oif the increase in future derail-
ments will be caused by the condition of sections of the
track which it is proposed to upgrade under the project.
That is, without the project, there will be an additional
120 avoidable accidents in 1981, which will increase with
traffic. On the average, a derailment is estimated by SNCZ
to cost directly some US$12,,000, with an economic cost to
Zaire of US$8,000. The track renewal will, therefore, generate
a minimum direct annual saving of US$960,000 from 1984 onwards.
(b)  Maintenance Cost:  The comparison of the maintenance cost of
the Tenke-Luena section, wh:ich is in good condition, with
the maintenance cost of the Luena-Ilebo line, which needs
upgrading, shows a difference of US$72 per km per month (30%
in foreign currency and 70% in local currency). Assuming
that during the first five rears after track upgrading no
major maintenance will be required, the proposed improvements
will generate savings of US',760,000 per annum in the first
five years and US$260,000 per annum thereafter.
(c) Savings in Locomotive and Rolling Stock Purchases: Speed
restrictions and train delays due to derailments require
more trains for transporting the same volume of traffic.  With
present schedules between Shaba and Ilebo, the turnaround time
should be 12 days, but the poor track condition is causing
a delay of some 20 hours. Flurther deterioration of the track



- 36 -
will cause still further delays. The present delay of 20
hours requires one full. extra train (1 locomotive and 16 wagons)
at an investment cost of US$1,440,000.
(d)  Avoidance of Loss of Capacity:  If the worst sections are not
promptly upgraded and the whole main-line sections at least
properly maintained, the increasing incidence of accidents
will reduce the effective capacity of the main line to Ilebo.
In that case, part of the traffic to and from Shaba using that
route will have to use the more expensive eastern and southern
routes (see para. 4.22 for details). It is estimated that such
traffic diversion may amount to 200,000 tons in 1982, and in-
volving a cost of US$5,000,000 that year, which will increase
with traffic growth.
The economic return on the track-related investments (about 40% of the proj-
ect) is estimated at 19% (page 38(a)).
ii. Spare Parts for Rehabilitation
4.15       SNCZ diesel locomotives and wagons have relatively low availability
(page 29) due mainly to inadequate supplies of spare parts in the past,
necessitating rehabilitation. The maintenance of electric locomotives has
also suffered for the same reasorn. By providing spare parts for rehabilita-
tion under the project, it is expected that availability will be maintained and
improved as visualized in the operational targets agreed on during negotia-
tions (page 29) avoiding additional investments in diesel locomotives (18 main
line and six shunters), electric locomotives (three) and wagons (550), resuit-
ing in a saving of US$41.8 million in avoided investments. This will yield an
economic return of 30% (on 17% of the project) (page 38(b)).
iii. Passenger Coaches
4.16       The 12 new passenger coaches will carry 60-72 million passenger-km
per year, which would otherwise have to be carried by road. It is estimated
that rail transport is about 0.6 US cents cheaper per passenger-km than bus
transport on a well-maintained, paved road. On poor roads, which are more
common in Zaire, the cost advantage of rail transport is even larger. The
annual benefit is estimated at a minimum of US$360,000 a year, yielding a
return of at least 11% on the investment involved (2% of the project) (page
38(c)).
iv.   Workshop and Service Equipment
4.17      Without the proposed irivestments in this eiquipment, availability
of locomotives, in particular of electric locomotives, and of wagons will not
maintain or reach the levels visualized under the project (para 3.22), and
SNCZ will have to incur additional investments to meet traffic demands. Such
avoidable investments are estimated at a minimum of US$2.4 million for 3 elec-
tric locomotives and US$6.0 million for 150 wagons, for a total economic cost
of US$8.4 million, yielding an economic return of 26% (on 6% of the project)
(page 38(d)).



- 37 -
v.    Ilebo Port
4.18      Without the proposed expansion of handling facilities, Ilebo Port
will become a bottleneck on the Voie Nationale. In addition, as these new
facilities will facilitate the handling of cargo in containers, it will
result in a saving in handling cost of at least US$1 per ton, in comparison
with conventional breakbulk handling.. Containerized cargo will alse suffer
less damage and pilferage, estimated at a minimum saving of US$1 per ton. In
1978, even without any special container handling facilities, Ilebo Port
handled some 37,000 tons of containerized cargo. This volume can be expected
to grow rapidly, particularly as the mining companies prefer to containerize
their cargo, to 200,000 tons in 1984 and 500,000 tons from 1987 onwards. The
economic return on the proposed investment (5% of the project) will be a
minimum of 15% (page 38(e)).
vi.   Training
4.19      An important part of the training program is the training of Zairian
nationals for middle and senior management and technical positions which would
otherwise be filled by expatriates. Expatriates, on the average, cost Zaire
about US$18,000 each in direct foreign currency payments and at least an equal
amount in extra local currency costs, in comparison with a Zairian of compar-
able rank. Even allowing for the possibility of SNCZ retaining only less
than half of the candidates sent abroad for training, the project is expected
to help replace at least 25 expatriates by 1984, producing annual economic
savings of US$675,000 for an investment of US$1 million (under 1% of project)
and yielding an economic return of 49% (page 38(f)).
vii. Other Items
4.20       There are a few items in the proposed project for which a specific
economic return cannot be worked out, such as the concrete sleeper plant,
telecommunications facilities, data processing center, and training for lower
level staff. These are essential to achieving the overall project goals, and
have been included in the cost of the project in working out the overall eco-
nomic return. The concrete sleeper plant would be justified as the least-cost
method of providing SNCZ with sleepers for its track renewal and maintenance
program.
viii. Total Project
4.21.     The project as a whole is designed to enable SNCZ to meet present
traffic needs and carry the increasing volumes of traffic which will be
generated by the growing mining activities of the region, through the more
dependable national route.
4.22      If SNCZ is unable to meet the demand for transport on the Voie
Nationale, more extensive use will have to be made of the railways of neigh-
boring countries. A comparison of the rates paid for transport over these
foreign routes and the cost of transport on the national route indicates that
suostantial economic savings can be achieved by increasing the shipments via



- 38 -
the natiofal route. It is assumed that, in case the national route is unable
to carry the potential traffic, the traffic volumes in question will be shared
equally between the three alternative routes via foreign countries as no
single route has adequate capacity to carry the entire additional traffic.
The economic cost of the associated tariff payments is US$104.50 per ton. The
economic cost to Zaire of transport via the Voie Nationale has been estimated
at US$77.50 per ton. It is estimated that 45% of SNCZ cost is in foreign
exchange. It is worth mentioning that the tariffs charged by some of the
neighboring railways do not cover costs and are in the process of being in-
creased.
4.23       The savings in transport costs generated by the project were ob-
tained by multiplying the additional mineral exports via the Voie Nationale
made possible by the project by the saving of US$27 per ton. Thus, from
1982 onwards, a minimum saving of US$2.7 million per year will be generated
as a result of the project. These savings together with the savings dis-
cussed in the previous sections yield an economic return of 20% on the project
investments (page 38(g)).
D. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
4.24       There are two possible sources of uncertaincy surrounding the out-
come of the project. One relates to the growth of total Shaba traffic. A
delay of up to five years in realizing the additional production projected in
the forecasts will not materially affect the economic justification of the
project, as the return will only decline to 16%.
4.25       Should the operational norms (para. 3.21) not be achieved as visual-
ized, the other cause of uncertainty, the economic return will decline to
about 13%, which is still satisfactory.
4.26       Should the Benguela Railway be in full operation and the route to
Lobito reopen before long, the pattern of the traffic flows on SNCZ will
undergo change, as the traffic assumed otherwise to use the Dar and southern
routes will divert to Lobito, which will be the cheapest of the three external
routes. However, such a development is unlikely to affect traffic on the Voie
Nationale as (i) the Voie Nationale will still be the least economic cost
route to the sea, and (ii) the capacity of the Lobito route is likely to be
fully utilized by Zambian transit traffic and Zairian traffic diverted from
the other routes. In any case, even without any increase in traffic on the
Voie Nationale over present levels, the economic return on the project will
be 15%.



- 38(a) -
i. Track Upgrading
YEÀER              C    1              C    2             B    i              B    2              B    3                         YEAR                B    4
.                                                                                                  . ..  . .   .   ... .   .. . .   .   ,   .. ... . .............. ......... ._ ._ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   ..   . .
1       90(0<), Q                <) . <)0            0)                    0                O °(  »O '.oo
2      :1.6000 .00 QG            <>*             240.0<)                 <) .0<)            0,00                                 3        5000.00
3      1<)(0).O                 ().()           48f3.00             :30<.Q            1440.<00                                  4        51()0.00
4        5175 t .0 <)              . <)>0        92<). 0<)           i60.  O                O .0<)                               5         2)<) ). <)
0.0)               0 <0          960.0)              76       )  0.00         O                                 6        5.0i 0.0<
6             0.           00 9V<).0<)                                 60 .<()<)            <) .00                               7        54)<) 0<)
7             ().<)0             <).0<)         10<)0)<)             760.()          )      0.)                                 8         l'.'S  >( .(
8             0.00               0.0>)          1020.00              5<)<). <)<)       1440. 0)                                 9        56E:j   .>O()
9             0.()O              ().0<)         1Q50.<)<)            260      0             0.()()                             1<       1570Q0). (
10 ) . ()                         0.00 1(O8). <><()                   A60. *)                0. <                              i          58()<) .0<)
l 3             <) * <)<           () * 0<) i(  70 1.0<)               26<)0 2 )()       144<). <0                              14         61)) .*00
16             < ). <>0           <) .<)<)       1260 .0<)             26<)>. <)<)      t4<) .0<)O                              14        614<)<) .<()0
i 4             ) . ()<)           () .  )<       132  ) ( .<00       A6<). (<           1   ( 0<) (1                                     62)0 0.
19              0,0<)            <O .0<)         12350 0 0             26<). <)()             <> 0 )l                                     60< ,   .(
1<)            0. ()O              () . <>0      1260.0 O             26(). <><>            (0,   >                           2.71        6<4>)  00
17             O .00               <) . O<)O      12940 * <0           260.00                 0. )                             22 L90<  . 00
), <)320 <.)                                                . I 4 0  0<   4 l  ) . 0( <)                        L
tY             0) <>0              <) . <)<)     1438< . )0             6<) .<)<>       (14).  2<>                             ;i 76)Q o Q
20              0.0(.(O                           1.380.00             26)(00. 00;1.                                                      6F3)(.(!0
2:1 ).                                           1)( ). ( )j4 JO.( OA. 0 )0( ( )*()( .                                         22         lit (1 () . ( ( j
22             :).( )().()                        1.440 ).00           A,6).   )                .)()23'.                                  70: (>    0)().()
! 3        ~~~(). ()O          :). )          [)L480.00. ()        A.6 ().           1 . 440). 00                          2 24       71 i( 1. 00. 0
24-25                                   (..( <)*>)°     152<  .()0           `60.                    0<)                             25         7200<  00
2 6            () . DO             <> , <)<)      1'6<) <)<)           260. <<)              2<)2 , 0                                       30o () 0
2)7            0. (,O (.                          16(0.  '>6). «                              0.0(                             2,'         04<)* (O
28              0.00               0 *00          1640.0<              260.00                 0. 0<                            28         !50.<)<0
*****RATE OF RETURN :=  18.950 +/    0.050 PERCEENT*****
NOTE: CHECK I NG THE -20. 000 rTO 100.000 PF E RrCENTr RANGE
(IN  INCREMENTS OF    1 .000   ERCENT).--
THE RATE OF RETURN ABOVE: IS UNIQUE.



- 38(b) -
ii. Spare Parts
Y  E    1:           `    ::                                          :i.            B    ' 2                    3
.i        400().              3000 Ci( >0                 0. <>0                   O                 (* 0  .00
.2 1000C0 *<0              250O      (<         43'5<   O          0         < C. 0<>            0<0<
3        6900 <<( >              675 * t5t . O           .  <0<>            8<)<) i   0        6(>O .0 + <)«
4              ( .Os()             (iD                    0 iti{. 6)o0       t.) 00 t;0        à>(Cffl. + )
Y4     F    0T0<>                    0 f.00L       . C;3O0.'              16<)<>00<>           t000. <)
1.             O..) eOJC;                  O *'90         0<0             Ot) 0 0              6000<00
yEÀEF F      TOùI'h ÀL.C QS           'TO TÀAL   DI NI I I.,F  T      NET   BNE   I
)            yr... ..   o..    ..o .    . .. .. ..    ..   . )  <> 0 *....- ... .. * <>0
2       1~~7' 250<    O                      O>>  30'  O <>0      -815 0 * <>
*57. < 0)                    i. 5500)0    1. <>0              25. <>0
*1''               O <0< 1et                195<>)( * (>)             il 9t')t- * 0)0.
6      0)  0<)                  40~~~~w00 <0               40)0)0    >
,f*                tj xrcc  R)()            .4i 0.   ï.
* k: * k   i r:    p -ç jÏ  p  ::: ë.       _ lj  .~.y*~1>  p                  ' E î: :vN  k tM*4
I: Il  (j   j 1- '                                                             i1:'.   N 1`
; ;   c  r`J:: t9:: :li M   i.o o- rl  r2. o"t o    ) "'. 'r: : r::''`>>  
`d        Xy `       lotf;   J      .    ,  



- 38 (c) -
iii. Passenger Coaches
YE::,': F.'                       1:        J                        ti.
.I.  ....    .   )  '.                      . .   1.. ...
;3 Jse' 5  ;( .. :~f.j?.
J'!                                    r        .. J.
i...  t.   r             O  l' À          . . .. ... j...                  i.. ....  ..
ou                  w                   i;                                    e.  f  i l l t si  i f. .J    iS.'j t- 1C
'    t.-::(t.::O:                                                     Hf) r                                        30.. 1.:
s    1.'.,1::~~~~~j:
-! F i..- -,          '              ,|     ï^Ij                        }  »  i   .!i                                S.i(f      1  1  1t          : iJ        ; ,   b



- 38(d) -
iv.   Workshop and Service Equipmeni
Y e1:  R             C      :1.             :    :.
.... ~ ~    :^ < ( ... ...? ..            .... ... . ..
..'A' ('j+O   (       CIx.( (ID+ t
2 .220   GO           S    O   0 0)
3         225  <>               28  Où
4                   0                   '.J
Yl:hl  Tt ,    h,         FliRt         1' ) T  À ..    N r:F :.1.      N E:    B F N Fi OT T
...           ....  ... . .                                                           (t.. .... . .- . .. .    .... . ... .
4      {\\ O ()S)                tA,?t'\()(~~~O  ),            16 O)(  O,tt(    )
:<>          :        ..A.'I280< ()8 0i.
* * '4;« * RÀ T E  CI::      E: T .) R    2 ~\  .::;     *{./  O    s  j::,.. O     FI Ec' F" N, E  *fr*



J. N ::lÇ'1S?('  (>                                  ;           5      ;Nl  :  'S11 f"l  i; vi      if' 
0 0  (>0 (Y T          (>0  000~~                ~           ~~~~~~              ~           ~~~~~ T  O<+o   
f''§ f') ° () f') t>}   () () 4 <) 7)                             Où f;) ( ? ° {'>                <
Où?   O  f,)i)<: ''''             (>0) i {;> 0(>ty                       (>(>                            9 O  O
J'      i f0,  '4 ;`                                                     0<> 4 (>(R  T                   £
O'03<  T                     >>  f T                               (><>  0        T(>8T
À.T..tLNICS>N                     i ° .i  -                 %.1..1       .       .802)   1VJ) i` . ;           i
f.... .....     ...   ...     .. .......     .. ..    ..     ....   .    ....    ... .. ........ ....  ..  ''' .... ...    .... ..    .... ...    ...    .., t .  ...
oos                oo )os                        .                       sz VI I  s1 4
00f«r                  (>0 00V                    OÔ 0 
{ ? ()  () () {,t   (~~~~~) c,   { ?( t         )O.    )*
(.>f') 'i?oV              0<>,f)£  ()(> V { )(>       (>0C (4  )
O (      !> T. > :            (>0   °02                <     o ,
(   (>) (T                       (> (> T             ( (> I>o: T °
(O                         0) (>9                     ((  4 00  T  °              '
7Y                            3T                         2)                     V.:i1
;::`;'.  I l:.-o 1q                            A
-    (a) 81,.  



*i I:i :r h M j-I    'i          :            ,   i i J.1    ` i        :1   i.1 .OJ    -i l l
L:.t'i i
(ID                                                 Ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
oo,s        9                          zoo   o ,o TS,                                ';   't'  5                         a
...  ...    ....~                             . ...I....  .:î....i.... ...1 .  ...  ...  ...   .f ...   ...  ...
1. I13 3   N 3 il        .I.  N        .1.   -I  ; . i` : ' ' t 1 X i '!.'\f/111  !l   C':: i        i:`1......:j !- 
0 (1  (1
,C?'(Y    (.,i'.)             '"i)[                               : '
,%,f;~~ ~      ~      ~~~~~                             il f'f2...,,'r' 
BUTUp.1 * ;A
- (fl)8t -



- 38 (g) -
vii. Wh.ole Project
Yl.r '(F I     10   i.. ('(J3f'            Iii 1V:l[l  ItII NE''I I'   Nt:i  I' l... NE 1: 1. 1
y  I; A F'0G                                         0.  0<' T               f '   .(O  .Gi
.  ~~~~~~~~0                                . '.u,                 ;é!):.('  )   ''.  Y            /sx/'; Ou()(
30        C O' . i  o 002   4'2, 0 0                                       iO
9 49.<0< O                      : A'. / 2;.n.                 I . . O       1 ) 
O} () 30)(9              I1. ':4'|'ï.tif!               I-,/<y. j 4 Q   GO
f~~~~~~~~~Q                    i         ). id 1. 1 11.! l O           1 t5 .1. 9.'.. 1.5   O i(l
QG  I)(                <1 {.t   * Go (                1 I f"0  ', < i
î O                         [40.  O. 14. 6 4 '!i O. 0 
'                                               :1. :1. , .00                  1     :1    GO
I                     '3  l'O                    i I)<)  i '  '0.00,l oil!fi   j. :1.   0, CO  
fi                        1-L.1  35  o t                1 :1 6> 00i s    ! o
.1 .'~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~1 .j ,it?      J. .'.(t1l o 0 0               1 3~1( "-il o  O)
:14                    G . GO Ii :1 :1   yQ,` 9'.  O(                         :1.1. 7   I'  O
I        GAG                        I ~~~~~~             ~ ~~~~~~~~4'-`5 0.0i4'O
.L .'                    0<.                     [ J   :1 :1.0'/,0             i      ' i!':11 7;  0O
:1.<:   5) . (!(/                -1. 4.`'.ï'.^ 0 i)O           1.-<'}:Q  1    Ï3  , - O 
:L,             t.) . ^)ii~~~9           :1 2 r1 AJ t; . fi (y         :1 2    40,     O t
2 i                    0. o: 2 .0                   '    0,I .4 .  f (
.o *oo'' . o
000                i  ut. Ou                     J  'G3      Ou
G  .S)                    1.   . 1 At (' 0              J 3 C'   ( O
G. GO                     1i     '.l .                 1M2  I         C ' I.0
; ~  ~     ~     00 . .''4  )(             1:  50,0                      i AbS        0k'3 i+ 
il    Ut   OFf LIEN               I '   1                    O"      < 0, 9  F   Ct o A i
NOTA    ('I*<ClIE.E R<r NO   THE.:  -- 2t>0.00?   l't:  '1.<Of!. f)OO    F`E..I'E.N  r-  NOfNCE:
iIN   :I:NCPEMEN'IS   Ol.:                1. .3<00   I:`F;,rE-C N   i
I'F-I:  i T    i  1   E E    IF-  R LF T U N   A ERI  11t   EL' 1     Il. N l   111 J 1.'






- 39 -
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Past Financial Performance
5.01      The financial health of the companies which were merged to form SNCZ
varied widely. The ex-KDI. was a fairly profitable entity, well-managed and
rather efficient, which had been able to finance most investments from inter-
nal resources and had few outstanding debts. VCZ and CFL were both operating
at a deficit; in 1974 their revenues did not cover even their cash operating
expenditures. SNCZ's financial situation has been difficult since its crea-
tion, as shown in SNCZ's summarized income statement below:
SNCZ Income Statement
(1' 000)
Year Ended December 31          1974       1975       1976        1977      1978
(est.)
Operations:
Revenues                  58,291    52,607    61,242       81,792    86,354
Expenses                 43,588    46,931    67,929        77,289    89,010
Operating Surplus         14,703     5,676    (6,687)       4,503    (2,656)
Depreciation              14,692    14,776    23,116       24,027    26,172
Net Operating Revenue              il    (9,100)  (29,803)   (19,524)  (28,828)
Other Revenues             3,666     3,541      4,967       4,991      5,000
Interest Expense             755       787      1,789       1,862      1,828
Net Profit (Loss)               2,922    (6,346)  (26,625)   (16,395)  (25,656)
Working Ratio                .75        .89      1.11        0.94      1.03
Operating Ratio             1.0        1.17      1.49        1.24      1.33
5.02      This poor financial performance resulted from a number of factors,
in particular decreasing traffic, impact of inflation on costs, decline in
operational efficiency, and finally delays in tariff adjustments for inflation.
The total number of traffic units 1/ carried in 1975 was 14% below the 1974
1/   As defined by SNCZ, one traffic unit equals 2 passenger-km or 1 freight
ton-km.



- 40 -
level, mainly because of the loss of Zambian transit traffic following the
closing of the Angola border. This transit traffic had generated 23% of SNCZ
revenues in 1974. In 1976, the total number of units decreased by a further
24% from 1975, or a cumulative 35% compared to 1974. rhe Angola border con-
tinued to be closed, and in addition SNCZ suffered from the lower level of
economic activity in Zaire caused by the worldwide depression. The lack of
foreign exchange to purchase spare parts for maintenance considerably reduced
SNCZ's transport capacity. The devaluation of the Zaire currency in 1976,
which led SNCZ to revalue its assets, resulted in a 41% increase in operating
expenses due to the increase in depreciation and in futel and spare parts
costs. Furthermore, SNCZ has had to pay some Z 800,000 yearly to the Zambian
Railways for the rental of rolling stock which, in fact, is impounded in
Angola, for which Zambia holds Zaire liable.
5.03      Despite the tariff increases in 1977 and 19 78 (para. 2.37), SNCZ is
still incurring heavy losses. Because of inflationary pressures and lack of
traffic growth, even the current expenses could not be covered by revenues in
1978, and the estimated loss went back to its 1976 level. Taking into con-
sideration the impact of the January 1979 Zaire devalu;tion on foreign costs,
it was estimated that a 75% tariff increase was immediately needed to offset
the projected loss.  During negotiations, the Government informed the Associa-
tion that it had approved increases of 80% in freight tariffs and 50% in
passenger tariffs, or 76% overall, effective March 1, 1979.
5.04      A thorough analysis of SNCZ's financial performance would require
an analysis by regions and by type of traffic, to understand where and on
which specific services the losses are incurred. On the basis of the limited
information available, the individual regions contribulted diversely to the
total deficit: in 1976, the ex-KDL generated a small surplus after deprecia-
tion; in 1977, with inflation, all regions incurred losses.
5.05      SNCZ staff recently carried out an analysis of operating results
by type of traffic.  It showed that for the southern and central regions losses
are incurred on the local mining traffic, consisting of the movement of coal,
ore, and semi-processed products between the different plants of the mining
industry. The main customers had been able to negotiatze special rates with
SNCZ, which were unreasonably low, in view of reduced traffic. The agreement
remained in force until December 31, 1977, and SNCZ is now trying to renego-
tiate a more satisfactory agreement. For the other regions, the low density
of traffic is to blame. Even if SNCZ were to discard :its current policy of
having one single tariff structure for all regions, the tariff increases
required to make the northern and eastern regions financially sound might well
exceed what is socially acceptable, since there is no alternative to rail
transportation on most of the routes.
5.06      The law creating SNCZ stipulated that a Government subsidy would
be paid to cover SNCZ's losses. A letter from the Minister of Transport
authorized SNCZ to offset taxes due (such as import duties, property taxes,
payroll taxes, etc.) against the loss. In effect, this means that as long as



- 41 -
losses do not exceed tax liabilities, there is no incentive to be efficient,
and this is clearly unacceptable. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with the Government and SNCZ that (i) in cooperation with the Planning Office
(GEEP) of DOTC, SNCZ will study the future of the low-density sections and
will discuss its findings with the Bank Group no later than December 1979;
(ii) SNCZ will be allowed to increase tariffs to cover the costs required to
perform its services at an efficient level (para. 5.11), and (iii) Government
subsidies will be limited to losses on non-profit-making services provided
specifically on Government directives.
5.07       SNCZ's balance sheets (paLge 42) confirm its very weak financial
situation. Current liabilities have exceeded current assets excluding in-
ventories since 1974. The debt/equity ratio is good, reflecting the self-
financing policy followed by KDL f or many years. The debt increased in 1977
from the settlement of the ex-KDL shareholders' claim, who will receive
BF 2 billion (US$68 million equivalent) in equal installments over a 16-year
period. SNCZ has set up a Z 20 million reserve for this purpose, the addi-
tional amount needed annually will be charged to retained earnings. Nego-
tiations are still going on with the shareholders of ex-VCZ. If their claim
were to be compensated on terms similar to ex-KDL's, SNCZ's long-term liabil-
ity would increase by some BF 225 million (US$7.7 million equivalent).
5.08       SNCZ's financial problems have been compounded by other difficulties
which are outside its control. The country's shortage of foreign exchange
has resulted in inadequate supplies of fuel and spare parts. Also the Bank of
Zaire has been slow to transfer funds remitted by SNCZ to pay SNCZ's foreign
suppliers and service its foreign debt. These defaults are resulting in addi-
tional charges, and sometimes debt rescheduling. Further, SNCZ supplies are
being delayed as suppliers are now demanding advance payment. During nego-
tiations, Government assurance was obtained that (i) SNCZ payments will be
promptly remitted to suppliers, (ii) SNCZ will not have to meet any additional
charges arising from delayed transfers, and (iii) at least US$10 million
equivalent in foreign exchange will be allocated to SNCZ annually for spare
parts.
5.09       To reduce the size of its accounts receivable, SNCZ has recently
implemented a new policy which requires its customers to pay in advance the
equivalent of two months' transport services for having a current account
with SNCZ.  This policy has worked well, and at present the Government and
the connecting transport agencies (such as ONATRA) are SNCZ's main current
debtors. The accounts receivable respresent approximately one-third of SNCZ's
operating income, which is still high, but acceptable.
5.10       SNCZ's fixed assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis.  They
were evaluated at their replacement value in 1974, when SNCZ was set up, and
reevaluated in 1976 to reflect a 72,% devaluation of the Zaire currency.
llowever, this amortization policy does not allow SNCZ to set up a sufficient
reserve to maintain the real value of its fixed assets. During negotiations,
it was agreed that SNCZ would revalue its fixed assets annually on a replace-
ment cost basis. (This was the ex-KDL's amortization polic-).



- 42 -
SNCZ Balance Sheets
(Z'OOO)
Year Ending December 31            1974     1975     1976      1977       1978
Estimate
Assets
Fixed Assets:               272,294  257,539  415,328   397,754    371,582
Other Non-negotiable
Assets                 15,786   13,125   15,823    14,876      15,000
288,080  270,664  431,151   412,630    386,582
Current Assets:
Cash                        940    1,146    3,051      5,078      5,000
Inventories              22,396   30,830   37,135    43,070      45,000
Accounts Receivable
(Clients)              4,731    6,266   12,167    10,782      12,000
Others                    7,694    7,792   18,133    27,565      45,044
35,761   46,034   70,486    86,495    107,044
Total Assets                    323,841  316,698  501,637   499,125    493,626
Liabilities and Equity
Equity:
Capital                 149,451  149,451  149,451   149,451    149,451
Retained Earnings        84,422   73,404   48,494    31,026       4,021
Loss Compensation
by Government            --       -        4,578    15,596     40,506
Assets Revaluation         -         -     179,563   179,563    179,563
Equipment Subsidy         6,994    8,436   10,170    12,153      12,000
Shareholder's Provision  20,000   20,000   20,000   (22,938)   (21,589)
260,867  251,291  412,2'56   364,851    363,952
Non-Current Liabilities:
Long-Term Debt           22,722   19,976   26,811    24,581      17,387
Ex-Shareholders'
Compensation-           -        -        -        44,287     44,287
Others                   24,770   26,491   18,727    17,589      18,000
47,492   46,467   45,538    86,457      79,674
Current Liabilities          15,482   18,940   43,843    47,817      50,000
Total Liabilities and Equity    323,841  316,698  50137   499,125    493,626
Debt/Equity Ratio                  8/92     7/93     6/94     16/84       15/85
Liquidity Ratio                    .86      .80      .76       .91        1.24



- 43 -
B. Financial Forecasts
5.11      Domestic inflation in Zaire constitutes the major difficulty in
preparing meaningful financial forecasts.  The expected domestic price in-
creases are so substantial that the forecasts become overly sensitive to the
assumptions made about the frequency and magnitude of tariff adjustments and
of wage increases, the two variables still remaining partially under manage-
ment control. In practice, however, both tariff and wage increases have to
comply with the Government's anti-inflation policy, which is still in the
blueprint stage. Financial forecasts were, therefore, prepared using a
constant monetary unit, and at 1979 prices. The actual financial performance
should not differ too much from these forecasts if tariff readjustments and
other anti-inflationary measures are enforced frequently enough to compensate
SNCZ for the impact of inflation on costs (para. 5.12). Other assumptions are
as follows:
i.   Revenues are based on traffic forecasts (Chapter LV)
and March 1979 tariff levels. For import and export
traffic, a single terminal point in Shaba, located
1,480 km from Ilebo, 1,390 km from Kalemi, and 360 km
from Sakania has been assumed.
ii.   A revaluation of fixed assets and foreign debts of
100% has been applied to take into account the 1978
and 1979 devaluations of the Zaire currency.
iii.   One-half of personnel expenditures (corresponding to
management, administration and overheads) is assumed
to remain constant. The remaining half increases in
step with the total number of traffic units. Fuel and
stores expenditures also increase with the total number
of traffic units. The spare parts provided under the
project are urgently needed to repair the locomotives
presently out of service, and they are assumed to be
consumed as soon as delivered, in addition to the normal
consumption of spares based on the increase in traffic
units. Since they constitute deferred maintenance which
should have been charged against previous years' reve-
nues, they are charged to retained earnings.
iv.   Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis, based
on the estimated useful eccnomic life of the assets. SNCZ
depreciation rates have been used; they are in line with
industry practice.
v.   SNCZ is liable to payroll and various other taxes, but it is
allowed to offset its tax liabilities in a given year by the
previous year's losses.  This is not reflected in the projec-
tions (para. 5.06).



- 44 -
vi.   All foreign costs of the project are covered by loans
bearing 8% interest, with four-year grace and 16-year
repayment periods. Local costs are met from SNCZ's own
resources.
5.12      On the basis of these assumptions, SNCZ would still incur operating
losses after charging depreciation in 1979 due to thie projected decline in
copper production in that year and to the delay in tariff adjustments, but its
finances should be restored to a satisfactory position from 1980 and should
improve substantially over the projected period (pages 45). The gradual shift
of import and export traffic from the southern routes to the Voie Nationale
will also contribute to SNCZ's financial recovery by increasing the distance
travelled on its own network. However, this recovery is contingent upon
SNCZ's ability to adjust tariffs for inflation. In 1.he financial forecasts,
only the direct impact of the January 1979 devaluation on foreign costs has
been taken into account, but not the cumulative effect on local costs and
salary adjustments, which is likely to occur.  In addition, the valuation of
the fixed assets on a replacement basis will increase the depreciation allow-
ance. It was, therefore, agreed during negotiations that, prior to credit
effectiveness, the Government wilL set up a tariff commission to review and
adjust SNCZ's tariffs periodically. To ensure the railway's financial viabil-
ity and to enable it to meet its cash requirements, it was also agreed that
tariff increases and other measures will be implement:ed to produce a minimum
3% return annually from 1981 onwards.
5.13      SNCZ's cash situation remains excellent throughout the projection
period (page 46). In fact, SNCZ would be able to finance any investments
which may be required to cope with further traffic growth after 1983 and
for replacement of assets as and when due. The cash balance is expected to
increase from Z 5 million in 1978 to Z 200 million by 1983, because one third
of the operating expenses (for depreciation) do not constitute an outlay of
cash. However, in order to safeguard SNCZ's cash position, agreement was
reached during credit negotiations that SNCZ will not undertake any invest-
ments outside the project, in excess of US$1.0 million equivalent a year,
without the agreement of the Bank Group.
5.14      SNCZ's forecast balance sheet (page 47) corifirms the gradual im-
provement in its financial position. The debt/equity ratio will remain very
satisfactory for the whole period. The ratio of current assets to current
liabilities is also expected to be well above 1 throughout the projection
period. Debt service coverage is satisfactory with a minimum of 3.0 over the
projection period. During negotiations, it was agreed that SNCZ will not incur
any further debt if the debt serviLce coverage is forecast to fall below 1.5.
It was agreed that, if the annual cash surpluses exceed SNCZ's needs, it will
pay to the Government the net profits as specified in the law setting up SNCZ.



ZAIRE
SNCZ - Projected Operating Statement
(Z '000)
Year andin g December 31             1979          1980          1981          1982          1983          1984           1985
Operations:
Operating Revenues                 145,175       172,399       184,469       203,123       214,292       214,292       214,292
Expenses                           111,300       117,368       121,020      124,698        126,921       126t921       126.921
33,875        55,031       63,449        78,425         87,371        87,371        87,371
Depreciation                        51,426        51,845        53,146        54,878        55,274        55,274        55,274
(17,551)       3,186        10,303        23,547         32,097       32,097         32,097
Interest Expense                     2,977         4,362         8,414       12,346         12,923        12,769        12,238
Other Revenues                       5,000         5,000         5,000         5,000         5,000         5,000         5,000
Net Profit (Loss)                  (15 528)        3,824         6,889        162201         4,174        24,328        24,859
Financial Indicators
Return on Net Fixed Assets (%)           0.0           0.5           1.8           4,1           5.7           6,5            7,4
Working Ratio                            0.76          0.68          0.66          0.61          0.59           0.59          0.59
Operating Ratio                          1.12          0.98          0.94          0.88          0.85           0,85          0.85
March 1979



ZAIRE
SNCZ - Projected Cash Flow
(Z '000)
1979         1980          1981          1982           1983           1984          1985
Sources
Net Operating Revenue             (17,551)       3,186         10,303        23,547         32,097         32,097        32,097
Depreciation                      51,426        51,845         53,146        54,878         55,274         55,274        55,274
Other Revenues                      5,000                       5,000                        5,000 5          000         5,000
Total Internally Generated         38,875       60,031         68,449        83,425         92,371         92,371        92,371
Foreign Loans                         -         19,300         59,370        52,100          9,380           - __           -
Total Sources                      38,875       79,331        127,819       135,525        101,751         92,371        92,371
Uses
Proposed ProjectL/                    -         25,264         75,458        74,077         14,842           -             -
Interests                          2,977         4,362          8,414        12,346         12,923         12,769        12,238
Principal Repaynents                5,098        3,701          3,414         2,916          7.306          7,314          6,635
Shareholders Compensation          5,535         5,535          5,535         5,535          5,535          5,535      5_ 535
Total Debt Service                 13,610       13,598         17,363        20,797         25,764         25,618        24,408
Increase in Working
Capital (Decrease)                  577        5,676          3,608         4,673         (2,129)            (8)           679
Total Uses                        14,187        44,538         96,429        99,547         38,477         25,610         25,087
Cash Surplus                      24,688        34,793         31,390        35,978         63,274         66,761        67,284
Opening Balance                     5,000       29,688         64,481        95,871        131,849        195,123       261,884
Closing Balance                   29,688        64,481         95,871       131,849        195,123        261,884       329,168
1/ Less training component.
March 1979



ZAIRE
SNCZ - Projected Balance Sheets
(2 '000)
Year Ending December 31             1979          1980          1981          1982         1983           1984          1985
Assets
Non-negotiable assets
Fixed assets                 614,777       578,925       573,423        583,351      542,919      487,645        432,371
Other                         15,000        15,000         15,000        15,000       15,000       15,000          15,000
629,777       593,925       588,423       598,351      557,919       502,645        447,371
Current Assets
Cash                          29,688        64,481         95,871       131,849      195,123       261,884        329,168
Inventories                   51,200        56,320         60,368        64,416       66,350        68,340         70,390
Receivables                   19,276        21,205         22,689        24,984       26,357        27,148         27,963
Others                        45,044        45,044         45,044        45,044       45,044        45,044         45,044
Total             145,208       187,050        223,972       266,293      332,874        399,635       466,919
Total Assets                     774,985        780,975       812,395       864,644      890,783        902,280       9142290
Liabilities and Equity
Eauitv     -
Capital                      149,451       149,451        149,451       149,451      149,451       149,451        149,451
Reserves                      36,882        27,318          2,276         5,089       25,146         45,357        66,099
Reevaluation reserve         455,245       455,245        455,245       455,245      455,245       455,245        455,245
Shareholders' provision    (61,759)         (57,642)      (53,525)      (49,408)     (45,291)       (41,174)      (37,057)
579,819       574,372       553,447       560,377       584,551       608,879       633,738
Non-current liabilities
Long Term debt                27,941        43,540         99,496       148,680      150,754        143,440       136,805
Shareholders                  83,039         77,504        71,969        66,434       60,899         55,364        49,829
Others                        18,000         18,000        18,000        18,000       18,000         18,000        18,000
128,980       139,044       189,465       233,114       229,653       216,804       204,634
Current liabilities
Payable                       45,700         48,470        50,681        52,849       53,895         53,895        53,895
Currernt long term             5,098          3,701         3,414         2,916         7,306         7,314         6,635
Other                         15,388         15,3          1,3v8         15,388       15,388         15 388        15 388
Total              66,186         67,559        69,483        71,153        76,589        76,597         75,9.8
Total Liabilities              774,985        780,975       812,395       864,644      20,793         902,280       914,290
Debt/Equity Ratio              16/84          17/83         24/76         28/72         27/73         25/75          23/77
March 1979



- 48 -
C. Financial Rate of Return
5.15      The internal financial rate of return of the project over a 20-year
period is estimated to be 20%, compared to the without project case. The
proposed project will increase SNCZ transport capacity to cope with the
traffic increase up to about 1984. Without it, it is assumed that SNCZ would
be able barely to maintain its present capacity, which is an optimistic
assumption.



- 49 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government and/or
SNCZ on the following:
(i) establishing an operations coordination unit (para. 1.23);
(ii) allocation of foreign exchange for spare parts (paras. 2.14
and 5.08);
(iii) operational targets (para. 3.21);
(iv)  study of low-density lines (para. 5.06);
(v)  tariffs and subsidies (paras. 5.06 and 5.11);
(vi) prompt transfer of SNCZ payments to foreign suppliers
(para. 5.08);
(vii) rate of return (para. 5.12);
(viii) investments outside project (para. 5.13); and
(ix) debt service coverage (para. 5.14).
6.02      The following are conditicins of effectiveness:
(i)  effectiveness of financing arrangements with other
co-financing agencies (para. 3.15);
(ii) conclusion of a Subsidiary, Loan Agreement between
the Government and SNCZ (para. 3.15); and
(iii) establishment of tariff commission (para. 5.12).
6.03      Project progress and completion reporting requirements were agreed
during negotiations.
6.04      On the basis of the above, the proposed project provides a suit-
able basis for an IDA Credit of US$20.0 million equivalent to the Government
of Zaire on standard IDA terms.



ANNEXi1
ZAIRE            -
SNCZ RAILWAY PROJECT
Past Bank Group Financed Transport Projects iu Zaire
Credit/
Year    Loan              Amount                                                                                             Status
(US$ Million)
Highway Projects
1957    Loan               40.0           (i) construction of 1170 km of new highways, irncluding 950 km               Satisfactorily
184-BE                               asphalt-paved, into and between main towns;                              completed.
(ii) improvement, without asphalting, of 890 km of existing
main roads;
(iii) improvement, ta prepare for mechanized mailntenance of
3300 km of local roads; and
(iv) provision of miscellaneous bridges and feriries.
1960    Loan               28.0           (i) construction, reconstruction and improvemeuit of 1963 km of              Substantial part
251-BE                               roads consisting of farm-to-market connections, links                    cancelled owing to
between regional centers, and feeder roads into river                   political and
ports and railheads;                                                    economic conditions.
(ii) constructior, reconstruction and improvemenit of 2837 km
of pioneer roads linking agricultural development pro-
jects with the nearest access point on the existing
transport system, or with processing plants;
(iii) ancillary wcrks on bridges and ferries;
(iv) improvement of the infrastructure of a number of port
access roads and jetties; and the Zaire River estuary; and
(v) procurement of equipment and materials needed for
dredging operations and for the extension and mainten-
ance of aids for navigation on the Zaire River estuary
and on othet inland waterways.
1969    Credit              6.9           (i) consulting services for managerial and operational support               Satisfactorily
152-CK                               for the highway administration;                                          completed in
(ii) procurement of spare parts and maintenance equipment; and               December 1976.
(iii) minor program for high priority road rehabilitation
works.
1972    Credit             19.0           (i) assist the Government in establishing and staffing the                   Completed with
292-CK                               highway administration through the provision of expatriate               exception of some
specialists;                                                            road rehabilita-
(ii) provision for rehabilitation of abotut 1900 km of gravel                 tion.  Completion
roads (latez reduced to 1140 km);                                       expected in
(iii) procurement of maintenance equipment; and                               June 1979.
(iv) feasibility studies and engineering.
1975    Credit             26.0           (i) technical assistance to the Bureau of Roads;                             In progress.
536-ZR                          (ii) implementation of a pilot maintenance schemne in one                     Completion
Region and planning of a similar scheme for a second                    expected in
Region;                                                                 December 1979.
(iii) establishment of a country-wide logistic support system
for highway maintenance;
(iv) rehabilitation of about 600 km of gravel roads;
(v) feasibility study of about 550 km of main roads; and
(vi) a comprehensive traffic survey.
River Project
1971    Credit              7.0           (i) rehabilitation of navigational aids, dredging facilities                 In progress.
255-ZR                               and equipment for the Zaire River estuary;                               Completion
(ii) improvement of navigational conditions on the Kinshasa-                 expected in
Ilebo river connection;                                                 June 1979.
(iii) rehabilitation of ONATRA's river fleet;
(iv) a study of alternative investments to increase the
capacity of the Voie Nationale; and
(v) provision of experts for key positions in the river
agencies.
Rail/River Project
1975    Credit             26.0           (i) renewal of 120 km of track, rolling stock rehabilitation,                In progress.
571-ZR                               extension of existing railway yards and workshops and                    Completion
miscellaneotus equipment;                                               expected in
(ii) 14400 deadweight tons of barges, a salvage vessel and a                  December 1979.
work boat;
(iii) staffing of 14 key positions in ONATRA with technical
experts, cornsultants' services for the recruitment of
experts, a river fleet reclassification program
and a study of a new railway workshop;
(iv) training program for ONATRA staff;
(v) buoy tender for the Regie des Voies Fluvotales (RVF) and
the continuation of rehabilitation of navigational
markings; amcd
(vi) preliminary engineering for the proposed Kinshasa-Ilebo
railway link and a study of investment requirements for
the Ports of Matadi and Kinshasa.
March 1978



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
ZAIRE
SNCZ RAILWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
1. General information for the appraisal prepared by SNCZ staff.
2.  SNCZ Investment Plan for 1977-1980.
3.  Study of the Voie Nationale by the Planning Off*ce of DOTC.
4.  Summary of SNCZ's Operating Statistics.
5.  Details on SNCZ's Fleet of Locomotives and Rolling Stock.
6.  Note on cost of relaying with 40 kg/m rail instead of 30 kg/m rail.
7.  Note on use of wooden vs steel sleepers.
8.  Estimate of wagon requirements.
9.  SNCZ Annual Report for 1974, 1975, 1976 and opening balance sheet as
of January 1, 1974.
10. Notes of traffic forecasts and economic evaluation.
11. Computer runs on financial evaluation.
12. SNCZ's debt service schedule as of June 30, 1977.






k                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE  BDi5R
CE T~R-AL  AMRCAN   EMPIRE                                                  TRANSPORT   CONNECTIONS
~~~~~~~J ~~~~~~~~~~RAILWAYS AND RIVERS
Bondo  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~--4-PRPOO3LD eAILWAYS
Muqbeoe               4-~~~~~- ~~ AILWÀYS
~~~                                                Lake    -            'S    -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NYERNATIONAL  BOUNDAS
EQUA     ISs 0-
GUIrA                                                                                         GANr-
PIE  P   S                                                                               oi1  E  N  Y  A
~~f  REPU ~~~~~~ I  QMossdos~~~~~'Ju 
OF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nioo
CON QO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Da sSlo
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~og
Bukovu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oamîu
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                          A,u0030  40C
O    100   200  300  400 M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u''
*                             ts  ZAV                                                      _ __ __ ___L 






t ~   ~~~~~~  <+                      s D              
W~~~~~~~~~ §        ,o t,' zt;9            )>;:}
t                            1                    2        d_~ 
__ __  



