CREDIT NUMBER 902 ZR
Project Agreement
(Railway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL RAILWAY COMPANY OF ZAIRE
Dated                               , 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 902 ZR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           a  ./*             , 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the National Railway Company of Zaire (herein-
after called the Company).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Zaire (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that the Company agree to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Company, the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to the Company on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Company, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Company shall carry out the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Company undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to, it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in .a
currency freely usable by the Company to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Company shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for'the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The Company shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Company: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
. event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Company
and the Association, the Company shall prepare and furnish to


﻿-3-
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Com-
pany and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credi
(d) The Company shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, build-
ings, property and equipment of the Company and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.05. The Company shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Company shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) The Company shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Company shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by the Company of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Company
Section 3.01. The Company shall conduct its operations
and manage its affairs at all times according to appropriate
managerial, financial and technical policies and under qualified
and experienced management and staff.
Section 3.02. The Company shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. The Company shall conduct a study of its
railway lines showing low-density traffic and shall exchange
views with the Association on the results thereof pr4ir to taking
any action thereon and in any event no later than December 31,
1979.
Section 3.04.' The Company shall take such steps as shall
be necessary so as to achieve the operational targets set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. As part of the reorganization of its accounting
system, the Company shall maintain a traffic-costing unit to
determine and monitor the cost; of its various services.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Company shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Company shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Company and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Company shall not make any investment
outside the Project, until its completion, in excess of $1,000,000
equivalent in any one year, without the prior approval of the
Association.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Company shall not incur any debt unless the amount


﻿-5-
of its net cash revenue for its fiscal year next preceding the
date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended
prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever amount is the
greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt-
service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all its
debt including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of
this Section:
(a) "debt" means all debt, except debt incurred in-the
ordinary course of business and maturing by its terms on demand
or less than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date and to the extent it is
drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or
agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into;
(c) the term "net cash revenue" means gross operating
revenue from all sources, adjusted to take account of the Com-
pany's tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the entire fiscal
year or twelve-month period to which such revenue relates, less
all operating expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes,
if any, and administrative expenses, but before provision for
depreciation and debt service requirements;
(d) the term "debt-service requirement" means the aggre-
gate amount of amortization (including sinking. fund payments,
if any), interest and other charges on debt;
(e) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in the currency of the Borrower debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the rate of exchange at which such other currency is obtain-
able by the Company, at the time such valuation is made, for
the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is
not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Association.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association ishall otherwise
agree, the Company shall take promptly as needed all such action
(including without limitation adjustments of its tariffs or


﻿-6-
other charges) as shall be required to provide in any year an
annual return on the average of the current net value of its fixed
assets in service at the beginning and end of such year at a rate
of not less than three per cent (3%), commencing with the year
1981.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual return specified in this Section shall
be calculated in respect of each year by using
as the denominator one-half of the sum of the
current net values of- the fixed assets of the
Company in service at the beginning and at the end
of such year, and as numerator, the net operating
income of the Company for the same year;
(ii) the term "current net value of the. fixed assets
of the Company in service" means the gross value
of its fixed assets in service less the amount
of accumulated depreciation, both as valued
annually on the basis of replacement costs; and
(iii) the term "net operating income" means gross rev-
enue from all sources less all expenditures,
including expenses of administration, adequate
maintenance and taxes or any payment in lieu
of taxes and adequate provision for depreciation,
but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
Section 4.06. The Company shall at all times maintain its
tariffs at a level which will at least cover the variable costs
of each of its services.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of the Company thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿.7-
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Company of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of Ameri,ca
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
For the Company:
Societe Nationale des
Chemins de Fer Zairois
B.P. 297 Lubumbashi
Zaire'
Cable address:                    Telex:
SNCZ                              256
Lubumbashi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed under
this Agreement on behalf of the Company, or under the Development
Credit Agreement by the Company on behalf of the Borrower, may
be taken or executed by its D616gue General jointly with
one Director or such other person or persons as the Company shall
designate in writing, and the Company shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
NATIONAL RAILWAY COMPANY OF ZAIRE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.                     I
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Company shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The.Company shall provide the necessary infor-
mation to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive ..bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Company of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Where required for standardization or where sources of
supply are limited, spare parts for existing machinery or equip-
ment may be procured through negotiations with suppliers of such
parts, with the prior approval of the Association.


﻿- 10 -
2.   Subject to the provisions of Part C.1 of this Schedule,
equipment, spare parts, tools and materials which cannot be
grouped for procurement under Part A of this Schedule in lots of a
value of at least $50,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis
of international shopping.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to (i) all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more and (ii) all contracts of any value
proposed to be procured under Part B.2 of this Schedule the
estimated cost of which, when added to all other contracts so
procured, is expected to exceed $500,000 equivalent:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Company shall furnish
to the Associati7on, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shill
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Company
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Company and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and 'conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿. . - 11 -
2.   With respect to each contract not goierned by the preceding
paragraph 1, the Company shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The. Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Company
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Operational Targets
Objectives
1980   1982   1984
1.   Average locomotive availability (%)
(a) Main line electric                      85     85      85
(b) Main line diesel                        60     75      75
(c)  shunting diesel                        70     72      75
2.   Productivity per available locomotive
per year (locomotive-km'000)
(a) Main line electric                      80    .90     100
(b) Main line.diesel                        85     90      90
3.   Average wagon availability (%)              82      85     90
4.   Average turnaround time (in days)
(a)  general freight                      -12.0   12.0    12.0
(b)  ore                                    3.1    3.1    3.0
5.   Average wagon load (tons)                   25      26     28
6.   Productivity per available wagon per year
(ton-km'000)                               375    400     450
7.   Staff productivity ('000 traffic units 1/
per employee)                              120    160     180
0
.1/ Ton-km of freight plus passenger-km.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   /*       day of
197_.
FORSECRETARY


