CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 902 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(Railway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 14, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 902 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower also intends to obtain financial assistance
for the Project from the Saudi Fund for Development in an amount
of 116,000,000 Saudi rials, from the Federal Republic of Germany
acting through its Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau in the amount
of DM50,000,000, from the African Development Bank in an amount of
8,000,000 Units of Account and from the Contributing Parties to
the OPEC Special Fund in an amount of $7,000,000;
(C) the Project will be carried out by the National Railway
Company of Zaire with tne Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Company
the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Company;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Asso-ciation, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Company" means the Societe Nationale des Chemins
de Fer Zairois, the National Railway Company of Zaire, established
and operating pursuant to Law No. 74-027 dated December 2, 1974,
as amended by Law No. 78-207 dated May 5, 1978, comprising the
Statutes of the Company;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Company of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Company pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Ag'teement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Sec'_on 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1989, and ending November 15,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Company is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Company to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Company to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance,


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
the Company under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Company for a term of twenty years
including four years of grace and bearing interest at the rate of
8% per annum, and containing such other terms and conditioni as
shall have been approved by the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall ensure that (i) the Company's payments to its suppliers
be promptly remitted, (ii) the Company not incur charges arising
from late transfers, and (iii) that at least the equivalent of
ten million dollars in foreign exchange be made available to the
Company annually for purchases of spare parts following completion
of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall take such steps as are
necessary on its part to permit the Company to earn the rate of
return stipulated in Section 4.05 of the Project Agreement and to
comply with the provisions of Section 4.06 thereof.
(b) To facilitate the prompt adjustment of the tariffs of
the Company as and when needed, the Borrower shall establish and
maintain a tariff commission with such membership, powers and
duties as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall restrict its subsidies to
the Company to the level required to cover losses arising from
non-profit making services rendered to the Borrower or the public
at the Borrower's direction.
Section 3.04. For the purpose of coordinating transport
operations at Ilebo and other transfer points along the Voie
Nationale, the Borrower shall establish and maintain an operations
coordination unit within its Department of Transport and Communi-
cations with such staff, powers and duties as shall be satis-
factory to the Association.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obli-
gation of the Company under the Project Agreement or the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement;
(b) Law No. 74-027 dated December 2, 1974, Law No. 78-207
dated May 5, 1978, or any other law or regulation governing the
organization or operations of the Company shall have been amended
so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or finan-
cial condition of the Company or its ability to carry out the
Project;
(c) the Company shall be unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken
whereby any of its property shall or may be distributed among its
creditors;
(d) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Company having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity, as provided in the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestab-
lishment of the Company or for the suspension of its operations;
and
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower or the Company to
withdraw the proceeds of any grant or loan
made to the Borrower or the Company for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agree-
ment providing therefor, or


﻿- 6 -
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower or of the Company to
perform any of its respective obligations under
such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower or the
Company from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement and the Company under the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower and the Company; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e) or
(f) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreeme'nt has been signed by the
parties thereto;
(b) the Association has been notified by the Saudi Fund for
Development, Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau, the African
Development Bank and the OPEC Special Fund that all conditions
precedent to the first disbursements of their respective loans for
the Project, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement, have
been fulfilled; and


﻿-7-
(c) the tariff commission referred to in Section 3.02
(b) of this Agreement has been established.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Company, and is legally binding upon the
Company in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and the Company and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Company in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 14, 1979, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.01 (d) and 3.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Commissioner of State responsible for Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Departement des Finances
Boite Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire


﻿-8-
Cable address:                    Telex:
DENFIN                            298 KIN/GOMBE
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By Is/ Kasongo Mutuale
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Imported equipment,       6,000,000        100% of foreign
materials and tools                       expenditures or,
for track rehabili-                       if purchased in
tation and mainten-                       Zaire, 75% of
ance;                                     total expendi-
tures
(2) Spare parts               4,000,000        100% of foreign
for locomotives                           expenditures or,
and rolling stock                         if purchased in
Zaire, 75% of
total expendi-
tures
(3) Passenger coaches         3,000,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Equipment, data           1,500,000        100% of foreign
processing center                         expenditures
(5) Training; ex-             2,500,000        100% of foreign
perts' services                           expenditures
under Part H of
the Project
(6) Unallocated               3,000,000
TOTAL     20,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associ-
ation are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2'
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the most urgent requirements of the
investment plan of the Company for the years 1979-1981. It inclu-
des the following Parts:
Part A:
Improving track by renewing and upgrading about 210 km
and ballasting about 285 km;
Part B:
Purchasing about 100 hopper wagons, 12 passenger coaches and
9 shunting locomotiv--;
Part C:
Procuring spare parts to improve maintenance and availability
of locomotives and rolling stock;
Part D:
Improving maintenance workshops and handling facilities;
procurement of equipment for a data processing center;
Part E:
Extending I :bo port facilities;
Part F:
Construction and rehabilitation of staff housing and related
social infrastructure;
Part G:
Training of staff of the Company in middle and top management
and technical positions; and


﻿- 12 -
Part H:
Conducting an evaluation of domestic timber to determine
its economic suitability for sleeper manufacture; establishment
of a traffic-costing unit.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


