Report No. PIC4952
Project Name                     Ukraine-Treasury Systems Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       UAPE49174
Borrower                         Government of Ukraine
Implementing Agency              Treasury Department,
9, Bastionnaya Street, Kyiv - 14
252008, Ukraine
Telephone: + (380-44) 294 4900
Fax: + (380-44) 295 94 61
Date this PID Prepared           January 1996
Projected Appraisal              June 1997
Projected Board Date             October 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background
Over the last two years, the Government has carried out important
reforms that have stopped hyperinflation, provided a stable
currency, and led to a recovery in hard currency exports. However,
unless there is a more fundamental reform of the public sector, the
success of the reform program in sustaining macroeconomic stability
and in reversing the decline in output may be jeopardized.
One of the main factors which indicates the fragility of the
achieved success is the unsustainable fiscal situation. For the
last few years, the Government has been running up arrears and
postponing expenditures, caused by the unrealistic budget and by
poor expenditure management and control. To achieve sustainability,
the Government budget has to correspond to a realistic assessment
of available resources; its drafting and execution needs central
coordination first to ensure that the resources are allocated to
priorities and second to guarantee that expenditure commitments do
not deviate from available revenues. This requires strengthening
the Ministry of Finance and creating a well functioning treasury
system. It also means setting clear rules for expenditure
selection, allocating expenditure responsibility and ensuring
oversight. All these measures will contribute to a stable and
efficient system.
At present, the Government has developed a reform program to
address the issue of fiscal sustainability and to improve the
management of public resources as well as to address many of the
existing government-imposed obstacles to business. Reforming the
public expenditure system and creating a well functioning treasury
system is an important element of this program -- the Government
realizes its crucial importance for the success of the whole reform
program. Therefore, it has set up its own targets for making the
Treasury operational -- start performing basic functions (the
interim system) in 1997 and consequently become fully operational



in 1999. Moreover, the Government has agreed with the IMF on a set
of reform actions aimed at improving public expenditure management
to be supported by the EFF program.
The Bank is already active in restructuring the public sector in
Ukraine. The Institution Building Loan (IBL) already in place helps
to develop a number of key institutions and their associated
systems. Three pieces of economic and sector work, namely a Study
of Debt Management, a Public Expenditure Review and a Public
Investment Review provide the analytical underpinnings for reforms
in public sector aimed at rationalizing taxes and improving tax
administration, restructuring the budget expenditure management,
improving administrative efficiency, and making government more
responsive to private sector needs.
The IMF has also been extensively involved in advising the
Government in the areas addressed by the project. In particular,
assistance is being provided to the Treasury in the development of
a new budget classification structure, a chart of accounts and the
functional specifications for a fully functioning treasury system
through a resident expert in Ukraine. The Government has expressed
a strong desire to ensure IMF involvement in the implementation
phases of its reform program. The IMF would continue to be
responsible for advising the Ministry of Finance and Treasury on
the substantive aspects of the budget execution, cash management
and treasury operations and to assist the Treasury in designing and
installing the full treasury system
This project proposes to assist the Government in its efforts to
establish a Treasury Department and a computerized treasury
management system, encompassing the full range of functions needed
to manage the execution of the fiscal program of the government.
The creation of the Treasury Department that will manage budget
execution - including oversight of extra budgetary and local budget
operations - and implementation of associated systems and
procedure, is an essential step to meet the needs of financial
administration in a market economy.
2.      Project Objectives
The project would assist the Government to:
(i) Establish a Treasury Department and implement associated legal
and institutional framework, including systems and procedures.
(ii) Assist the Government to design and implement a fully
functional, automated treasury system, that would serve as an
effective instrument for budget execution and cash management.
3.      Project Description
the project would provide technical assistance, computer hardware
and software and training to enable the government to complete the
design of the treasury system, which will support the policy
framework for the public expenditure management developed by the
- 2 -



Government with the help of IMF, World Bank and other donors.
Technical assistance (advisory services) would be provided by the
project to supplement the assistance provided by the IMF to
establish a full treasury system. In particular, to develop: a) a
regulatory framework and detailed procedures at all levels of
treasury operations, b) improved methods and guidelines for
forecasting of expenditure requirements, c) improved procedures for
cash management, and d) information systems for a fully automated
treasury system.
Equipment and software would be procured to be installed at the
Treasury headquarters, oblast and selected rayon Treasury offices.
Each office would receive an appropriately sized UNIX server, a LAN
network, a RDBMS and application development tools, laser and line
printers and windows based work stations and modem connections over
all Treasury network. Details of equipment to be procured would be
determined by the Treasury and project consultants. The project
proposes to investigate off-the-shelf application software packages
that could meet the Treasury requirements after customization.
Software would be selected from packages available in the market
and would be acquired for a few pilot sites. After the pilot system
has been tested, it would be replicated across the remaining sites
if the system fits Treasury requirements. Custom development of the
systems would be undertaken only if no off-the-shelf application
software packages are available that could possibly be used for the
Treasury after customization.
Training would be provided to build skills on functional and
technical matters. Training is recognized to be a crucial element
for project implementation and its further systainability. The
project would provide financing to develop an overall training
strategy for the system's users, as well as to design in-house
training facilities. The project would also finance training
courses, seminars and study tours for government employees in
budget execution and treasury operations areas, as well as in
computer systems.
4.      Project Financing
The proposed Bank loan of US$15.750 million equivalent will finance
61 percent of the total project costs, which comprise 66.5 percent
in foreign exchange costs ( US$13.750 million equivalent) and 37
percent in local costs, (US$2.0 million equivalent). The Government
will finance the balance of project investment costs (about US$9.5
million equivalent), including duties and taxes which are estimated
at US$3.125 million equivalent. Recurrent incremental costs, which
comprise equipment operations and maintenance and facilities
service costs (US$0.7 million equivalent), will be financed
entirely by the Government. US$0.5 million would be provided form
PHRD grant funds to prepare the project. It is expected that the
IMF would designate and finance specialist advisors for varying
periods of time up to a total of 24 person months to assist in the
design and implementation of the system.
- 3-



5.      Project Implementation
Project Institutional and Implementation Arrangements are as
described below:
(a) Implementation Period:       Four Years; FY1997-FY2000
(b) Executing Agencies: The Treasury would administer funds under
the project
(c) Project Coordination:        A working group will be set up by the
Treasury with representatives from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) ,
National Bank of Ukraine (NBU), and other related agencies to deal
with day to day operational issues.
(d) Project Oversight: A steering committee chaired by the Head of
the Treasury, would be set up, by a resolution of the Cabinet of
Ministers, to oversee overall implementation of the project and
advise on policy issues. This committee will include
representatives of the MOF, the NBU, the National Agency for
Reconstruction and Development, the Ministry of Economy and the
Treasury,
6.      Sustainability
The sustainability of the project would largely depend upon the
commitment by the authorities to the project objectives. The
Government has indicated its commitment to the treasury system
reform and has set an explicit timetable for the implementation of
a full treasury system. Work under this project builds upon efforts
already underway. These efforts also give a strong indication of
Government commitment. Another critical condition for project
sustainability is that the Treasury be able to assimilate and
retain the transfer of technical skills. The project would
supplement technical skills as required. To institutionalize the
technological changes smoothly, the project would recruit foreign
and local specialists and structure training programs for staff. By
developing long term training strategies the project would ensure
sustained institutional support. Participation of the local private
sector in systems development and implementation activities
proposed in the project would also ensure sustainability.
7.      Lessons learned
The Bank's experience with similar projects demonstrates the need
for: (i) a high level of commitment to project objectives on the
part of the borrower; (ii) well defined objectives consistent with
the country's absorptive capacity; (iii) thorough preparation and
accurate assessment of needs; (iv) close monitoring of project
preparation actions to be undertaken by the borrower and provision
of necessary technical assistance; and (v) rigorous supervision to
handle the design, procurement and implementation challenges that
these projects typically present.
The Bank's experience with the Treasury component under the IBL
-4 -



shows that borrower's commitment and his extensive involvement in
deciding the project (participatory approach) as well as extensive
involvement of the resident mission in the process of preparation
and supervision are essential for the success of the project.
The project incorporates these lessons by: (i) focusing on areas to
which the Government is currently committed ( see para. 11 below);
(ii) building on existing Government efforts in these areas; (iii)
providing technical assistance to help the borrower to implement
the actions required for the project preparation and providing
financing for skills required for project implementation, (iv)
proposing a PIU to meet implementation challenges; (v) anticipating
intensive supervision requirements and involving extensively the
resident mission in Kiev in this process.
8.      Poverty Category
This project does not directly attempt to resolve poverty issues.
Therefore it is classified as " Not in the Program of Targeted
Interventions".
9.      Environmental Aspects
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on
Environmental Assessment ( OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed project
has been placed in Category "C" and does not require an
environmental assessment.
10.     Program Objective Category
Economic Management
Contact Point            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 11, 1997.
- 5 -



