Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7184-UA
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
UKRAINE
TREASURY SYSTEMS PROJECT
JANUARY 27, 1998
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as on June 1997)
Currency Unit = HR
1.95 HR =US $1.0
US$1= 0.51HR
1993  1994  1995  June 1997
US l.00=      -     -    -     1.95
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
DC          Direct Contracting
FAD         Fiscal Affairs department
GFMIS       Government Financial Management Information System
GFS         Government Finance Statistics
H/W         Hardware
IBL         Institutional Building Loan
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IS          International Shopping
IT          Information Technology
MOF         Ministry of Finance
NS          National Shopping
NBU         National Bank of Ukraine
PC          Personal Computer
PFM         Public Finance Management
PHRD        Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
QCBS        Quality and Cost Based Method of Selection
RDBMS       Relational Data Base Management System
RTU         Regional Treasury Units
S/W         Software
SOE         Statement of Expenses
SU          Spending Unit
SL          Short List
TLS         Treasury Ledger System
TSA         Treasury Single Account
Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:   Paul J. Siegelbaum, ECC 11
Sector Director:  Pradeep K. Mitra, ECSPE
Sector Leader:    Sanjay Pradhan, ECSPE
Team Leader :     Lilia Burunciuc, ECC 11
Co-Team-Leader:   Ali Hashim, ECSPE



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND                                                                          2
2. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT                                                           3
Progress to date                                                                                     4
3. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE AND BANK STRATEGY                                                                5
Lessons Learned                                                                                      5
Rationale for Bank Involvement                                                                       5
4, THE PROJECT                                                                                            6
Objectives                                                                                          6
Project Description                                                                                 6
A. Policy Framework and Institutional Reforms                                                     6
B. Key Cbaracteristics of the Treasury Ledger System Design                                       7
Items to be Financed                                                                                9
A. Technical Assistance (base cost US $ 2.62 million)                                            10
B. Computer Hardware and Software (base cost US $ 21.4 million)                                  12
C. Training (base cost US $ 0.6 million)                                                         13
5. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS, PLANS AND SCHEDULES,
MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                                                         14
Project Implementation Arrangements                                                                14
Implementation Strategy & Schedule                                                                 14
Project Sustainability                                                                             15
Project Launch, Monitoring and Evaluation                                                          15
6. PROJECT FINANCING AND COSTS; PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS                                                                                      17
Financing and Costs                                                                                17
Procurement Arrangements and Schedules                                                             19
Methods other than ICB                                                                           20
Technical Assistance                                                                             21
Disbursement and Financing Schedules                                                               23
Financial Management System                                                                        24
Special Account                                                                                  24
Project Audits                                                                                   25
8. BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                                                   26
Benefits                                                                                            26
Critical Assumptions and Risks                                                                      26
9. AGREEMENTS REACHED                                                                                    28



LIST OF ANNEXES:
Annex 1:        Detailed Functionality of the Treasury Ledger System and the Technology Architecture
Required for Implementation.
Annex II:       Treasury Systems Project Implementation Schedule.
Annex III:      Project Performance Monitoring Indicators.
Annex IV:       Detailed Cost Tables.
Annex V:        Detailed List of Technical Assistance Requirements.



GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE
Treasury Systems Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Ukraine
Implementing Agency:    The Ministry of Finance
Beneficiaries:           The Ministry of Finance, the Treasury Department
Poverty:                 Not applicable
Amount:                  US$ 16.4 million
Terms:
The loan would be made in US Dollar at the Bank's standard
interest rate for LIBOR based single currency loans, with a
maturity of 20 years including five years of grace.
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:          See para. 6.1
Staff Appraisal Report:    Technical Annex (Report No. T-7184-UA) in Lieu of Appraisal
Report to supplement Memorandum of the President (Report No. P-
71 84-UA).
Project ID Number:       49174






1. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.1   Over the last two years, the Government of Ukraine has carried out important reforms
that have stopped hyper-inflation, provided a stable currency, and led to a recovery in hard
currency exports. However, unless there is a more fundamental reform of the public sector, the
success of the reform program in sustaining macroeconomic stability and in reversing the decline
in output may be jeopardized.
1.2   One of the main factors which indicates the fragility of the achieved success is the
unsustainable fiscal situation. For the last few years, the Government has been running up
arrears and postponing expenditures, caused by the unrealistic budget and by poor expen diture
management and control. To achieve sustainability, the Government budget has to correspond to
a realistic assessment of available resources. The preparation of the budget and its execution
needs central coordination, first, to ensure that the resources are allocated to priorities and
second, to guarantee that expenditure commitments do not deviate from available revenues. This
requires strengthening the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and creating a well functioning treasury
system. It also means setting clear rules for expenditure selection, allocating expenditure
responsibility and ensuring oversight. All these measures will contribute to a stable and efficient
system.
1.3   At present, the Government has developed a reform program to address the issue of fiscal
sustainability and to improve the management of public resources as well as to address many of
the existing government-imposed obstacles to business through a proposed Public Resource
Management Loan. Reforming the public expenditure system and creating a well functioning
Treasury system is an important element of this program -- the Government realizes its crucial
importance for the success of the whole reform program. Moreover, the Government has agreed
with the IMF on a set of reform actions aimed at improving public expenditure management to
be supported by the stand-by program.
1.4   The Bank is already active in restructuring the public sector in Ukraine. The IBL, already
in place, helps to develop a number of key institutions and their associated systems. Three pieces
of economic and sector work, namely a study of Debt Management, a Public Expenditure
Review and a Public Investment Review provide the analytical underpinnings for reforms in
Public Sector aimed at rationalizing taxes and improving tax administration, restructuring the
budget expenditure management, improving administrative efficiency, and making government
more responsive to private sector needs.
1.5   The IMF has also been extensively involved in advising the Government in the areas
addressed by the project. In particular, assistance is being provided to the Treasury in the
development of a new budget classification structure, a chart of accounts and the functional
specifications for a fully functioning treasury system through a resident expert in Ukraine. The
Government has expressed a strong desire to ensure IMF involvement in the implementation
phases of its reform program and the IMF would continue to be responsible for advising the
MOF and Treasury on the substantive aspects of the budget execution, cash management and
treasury operations, and to assist the Treasury in designing and installing the full treasury system.



-2-
2. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT
2.1   Previous analyses by the Ukrainian authorities and by the IMF and the World Bank staff
highlighted significant weaknesses in the budget system and the financial management of
governnent operations. These have been reported on in previous IMF reports (e.g. Ukraine- A
Prograrn to set up a Treasury System, IMF/FAD, April 1993). The features of the previous
system that hindered effective financial management in the central and local governments are
summarized below.
2.2  In the process of transformation from a centrally planned to a market economy, the public
expenditure management system will need to be re-structured and take on new tasks in order to
be an efficient instrument of economic management. Specifically, past preoccupation with
compliance with centrally issued directives to fulfill the planned targets is no longer relevant.
Other major weaknesses in the former public expenditure management system are:
1)  Diffusion of responsibilities for fiscal matters among a number of different entities
within the Government in addition to the MOF;
2)  Inappropriate budget classifications, which do not allow  meaningful budget
monitoring;
3)  Inappropriate legal framework for budget preparation, approval, implementation and
monitoring;
4)  Lack of reliable, comprehensive and timely accounting information;
5)  Underdeveloped debt and cash management operations that are not linked to overall
budget management;
6)  Dispersion of budget money in many spending units accounts, instead of concentrating
money in a single treasury account, which makes cash management difficult;
7)  Lack of macro economic framework needed for formulation of the budget and making
of revenue and expenditure projections;
8)  Lack of administrative capacity to adjust the budget in response to changing
circumstances;
2.3   The proposed project will address the points 1-6 mentioned above: assist the Government
to define the functional responsibilities of the Treasury, the Budget and Taxation Departments of
the MOF, design new budget classification structures to allow meaningful resource allocation
and monitoring, design a new legal framework to underpin budget execution, design and
implement a treasury system to centralize payment processing and optimize cash management,
and provide timely information on the deployment and use of fiscal resources.



-3 -
Progress to date
2.4   The Treasury Department has been established as an organization and has begun taking
over the budget execution functions formerly carried out by the financing departments of the
MOF. However, fiscal management accounting still depends on records maintained by the
National Bank of Ukraine (NBU). Payments are, for a large part, still made directly from the
spending units' accounts held in banks. Nevertheless, the Government is extremely committed
to establishing well functioning Treasury to meet the needs of financial administration in a
market economy. Moreover, difficult fiscal situation is forcing the Government to take actions to
improvement of expenditure management and control. It is committed to addressing remaining
systemic problems, such as fiscal reporting which is dependent on records maintained by the
NBU and payments which are made directly from spending unit accounts held in banks. It has
set up its own targets for making the Treasury operational -- start performing basic functions (the
interim system) in 1997 and become fully operational in 2000.
2.5   Originally, the work on the treasury system had started under the Institution Building
Loan (IBL) Treasury component, which was canceled in April 1996, due to the lack of progress
at that stage. However, some operational procedures, operating manuals and directives for the
new system have been developed under the IBL Treasury component.
2.6   Over the last twelve months, the Treasury Department has embarked on a project to set
up an interim computer based system with the assistance of the NBU. This system will cater to
basic requirements for treasury operations related to financing Government programs and
processing payments from Government agencies. The Government has started to centralize
payment processing on a pilot basis from June 1, 1997 for the Kiev University, Ministry of
Health, and the Chernobyl and the Employment funds, for three Oblasts. Subsequently, the
scope was increased to include all central Government institutions based in Kiev. The pilot is
being extended now to cover all Oblasts by end 1997. In addition, a draft of the new Budget
Management Law has been prepared. Finally, the new Minister of Finance has taken an active
interest in the project and has set up a formal working group and the Treasury has developed a
detailed action plan required for project implementation.
2.7   A separate computer department has also been set up and is currently staffed with about
20 analysts and programmers at the Treasury headquarters. In addition 2-3 analysts and
programmers are located at each Oblast Treasury office. To set up the interim system, the
Treasury has acquired computer hardware and software worth about $6.4 million, financed from
its own resources.
2.8   The Government has approached the Bank to finance the development and
implementation of new systems, processes, procedures and methodologies required for the
establishment of the fully functional Treasury. The Bank loan would supplement Government's
own outlays and enable the full implementation of the treasury system. The project will build on
work already done by the borrower in establishing a Treasury Department and associated
systems.



-4-
3. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE AND BANK STRATEGY
Lessons Learned
3.1   The Bank's experience with the Treasury component under the IBL shows that the
borrower's commitment and extensive local involvement in designing the project (participatory
approach) as well as extensive involvement by the Bank's resident mission in the process of
preparation and supervision, are essential for the success of the project. The Bank's experience
with similar projects indicates that other important aspects that need to be kept in mind are: (i)
well defined objectives consistent with the country's absorptive capacity; (ii) thorough preparation
and accurate assessment of needs; (iii) close monitoring of project preparation actions to be
undertaken by the borrower and provision of necessary technical assistance; and (iv) rigorous
supervision to handle the design, procurement and implementation challenges that these projects
typically present.
3.2   The project incorporates the above mentioned lessons by: (i) focusing on areas to which
the Government is currently committed; (ii) building on existing Government efforts in these
areas; (iii) providing technical assistance to help the borrower to implement the actions required
for the project preparation and providing financing for skills required for project implementation;
(iv) proposing a PIU to meet implementation challenges; and (v) anticipating intensive supervision
requirements and involving the resident mission in Kiev in this process.
3.3   The Government is very committed to the project. An indication of the Government's
commitment and ownership is that the project scope and design are based on an action plan and
cost estimates developed jointly with Treasury officials. Government commitment is also
confirmed by the intention to make its own contribution to the project of about 37 percent of the
project cost which includes US$ 6.4 million for hardware and software for the interim budget and
US$ 3.6 million for duties and taxes.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.4   The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) emphasizes the need for restructuring the public
sector and recasting it in a supportive role essential to the efficient operation of a market
economy.  The indicators established in the CAS for monitoring progress towards this
development objective include strengthening economic management institutions. The creation of
a Treasury Departmern to manage budget execution - including oversight of extra budgetary and
local budget operations - and implementation of associated systems and procedures, is an essential
step to meet the needs of financial administration in a market economy. The project will help build
institutional capacity in Ukraine to deal with public expenditure management issues and assist the
Government to set up the Treasury in close collaboration with the IMF. The Bank and Fund are
currently involved in several similar projects in the countries in transition, and over the years, have
developed valuable expertise in this area that give them a comparative advantage. Bank support
would thus significantly help the Government to develop an efficient system of public finance.
This would be in line with the objectives of the CAS (Report No. 15674-UA, June 3, 1996).



-5-
4. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.1   The overall objective of the Project is to support ongoing Government efforts to assist the
Government to design and implement a fully functional, automated treasury system, that would
serve as an effective instrument for budget execution and cash management.
Project Description
4.2   The Government is in the process of implementing several key policy actions to enable the
Treasury to be set up and function in accordance with international best practices. To support
this activity, this project will assist the Government in designing and implementing a fully
functional automated treasury system capable of serving as an effective instrument for budget
execution and cash management. The proposed project would provide technical assistance,
computer equipment and software and training to enable the authorities to design, develop, test
and implement processes, procedures and systems, related regulations and training programs for
budget execution and treasury operations and payroll management. The project would first assist
in the design of the systems. The system will then be implemented at a number of pilot sites and,
after the pilot exercise, replicated across the country.
4.3   Following is a brief description of the institutional and policy reforms underway, and of
the information systems and associated technology to be set up for the Treasury under the project.
A.   Policy Framework and Institutional Reforms
4.4   The IMF and World Bank have been extensively involved in advising the Government in
developing policy and institutional reforms to enable the treasury to be set up and function in
accordance with international best practices. A comprehensive package of public sector reforms
is being undertaken by the Government and supported by the Bank as part of preparation of the
proposed Public Resource Management Loan. The proposed Treasury project will complement
the reforms proposed under the Public Sector Resource Management Loan and will support
Government efforts to reform the system of public expenditures. In addition, these reforms are
being supported by the IMF's program. Some of the key actions and policy reforms being
undertaken are detailed below:
(i)    Development of a comprehensive Budget Management Law which will provide a
framework for the proper management of public moneys and property, with specific
emphasis on: (a) the receipt and custody of public moneys (including banking
arrangements); (b) public expenditure management (including control processes and
linkages with appropriations); (c) the accounting system; (d) the role and responsibilities
of the Treasury and other MOF departments; (e) asset management and control; (f)
borrowing and investment (specifically the management of the public debt); and (g)
reporting and audit. The first draft of the law has already been prepared by the MOF, and
reviewed by the Bank and the IMF, and is currently being discussed in several
Parliamentary committees.



-6-
(ii)   Adoption of a budget classification system consistent with the IMF's Government
Finance Statistics (GFS) methodology, and final design of a treasury chart of accounts
embodying this classification system for implementation. The Ministry of Finance already
issued the new budget classification system on December 3, 1997.
(iii)  Implementation of a transaction based treasury ledger system embodying the new
chart of accounts.
(iv)   Centralization of all Government payments through the Treasury and consolidation
of bank accounts to a single account at the NBU. The Government started a pilot on June
1, 1997, to implement central payment processing for the Kiev University, Ministry of
Health, and the Chernobyl and the Employment funds, for three Oblasts. The pilot will be
extended to cover all Oblasts by end 1997. Centralized payment processing will be
progressively extended across the Government during 1998, with 70% of transactions by
value expected to be processed centrally by June 1998.
(v)   Reducing reliance on physical movements of cash in the budget revenue collection
process and implementation of a payroll system that makes direct deposits to employee
bank accounts, replacing cash payments. It is expected that the government will pilot an
automated payroll system within the MOF in 1999. This system would then be
progressively implemented across the Government.
(vi)   Conducting a functional review of the Treasury Department to first review the
allocation of functions between the Treasury and Budget Departments of the MOF, and
Tax Administration by November 1997. Consequently, a comprehensive operational and
effectiveness review of the Treasury will be completed by end- 1998.
B.    Key Characteristics of the Treasury Ledger System Design
4.5.  At a policy level, recommendations related to the scope and functions of the Treasury and
associated systems and procedures have been developed by the IMF and are based on
international best practice as adapted for economies in transition. The Treasury Ledger System
(TLS) proposes a centralized approach to payment processing through the Treasury, rather than a
decentralized approach, in which the accounting departments of ministries would be directly
responsible for processing payments for expenditures incurred by their respective agencies. The
IMF has weighed the advantages and disadvantages of a centralized versus a decentralized system
in the early 1990s, while designing this system, and believes that the centralized approach is more
appropriate for Ukraine for the following reasons:
(a)   Under the current system the Ministry of Finance (MOF) periodically distributes
funds to spending agency bank accounts, and the spending units directly process payment
transactions against these accounts. This results in a situation where, on the one hand,
sizable idle balances can build up in spending unit bank accounts, while the MOF is in
deficit in overall terms. This, in turn, necessitates additional government borrowing and/
or causes arrears in payments.



-7-
(b)   The MOF cannot exercise any control to ensure that public expenditures incurred
by spending units were in accordance with budget appropriations.
(c)   The MOF does not receive timely information on public expenditures or receipts
from line agencies.
In view of this, the IMF has recommended implementation of a centralized model in which all
Government funds would be placed in a TSA at the NBU (Central Bank), spending agency bank
accounts would be closed, and all payments for spending agencies would be processed by the
Treasury Department, which would control the TSA at the Central Bank.
4.6   The proposed system would not, however, undermine spending unit authority and
responsibility for budget preparation or administrative and financial control of expenditures during
the budget execution phase. These responsibilities would continue to lie with the spending
agencies. Thus, the finance departments of spending agencies would continue to be responsible
for budget preparation and ex- ante financial control (including commitment control) of
transactions. The accounting departments of these agencies would verify receipts of goods and
ensure that proposed expenditures are in accordance with budgeted appropriations, prior to
forwarding payment orders to Treasury for payment. Though a good treasury system cannot
rectify problems of bad budgeting, the new system would, nevertheless, enable the Treasury to
ensure that proposed expenditures are in fact in accordance with the budget appropriations, as
they should be under any well performing fiscal management system. It would also provide the
MOF a means to exercise control on which payments need to be given priority in a situation in
which there is a shortage of funds. Since all payments would be processed through Treasury, the
system would also enable the Treasury to, simultaneously, compile overall information for the
MOF on public expenditures and receipts. Therefore, in view of the current need for central
control over expenditures and idle balances in agency accounts, and for up to date information on
public expenditures and receipts, a centralized system holds clear advantages over a decentralized
approach.
4.7   The core functional processes and information flows associated with the system are shown
schematically in Figure 1. The project envisages implementing systems at the Treasury head
offices and at each of the Oblast and Rayon branches of the Treasury to process and control
central government payments in their respective areas. Local government payments are not
envisaged to be part of the system at this stage. Nevertheless, the implementation of the treasury
system would not preclude the installation of a similar system for local governments at a later
date.
4.8   The TLS would be the core Government Financial Management Information System
(GFMIS) and would be used by:
(i)   the Treasury and its regional offices to perform the basic accounting functions and
to undertake budget implementation;
(ii)  the Budget Department of the MOF to obtain the status of actual expenditures and
perform the processes associated with budget preparation and monitoring;
(iii) the Cash Management Department of Treasury to provide the information it
requires for cash management and implementation of cash limits;



Figure 1: Ukraine- Core Government Fiscal Management Processes, Information Systems and Information Flows 
Treasury will be Responsible for Making Payments. Central Bank Directly responsible for Retail Bankin-g Operations.
Core Functional Processes                                                          Spending           Ministry of Finance                 GFM Information                        National Bank of Ukraine                       Commercial
Ministries & SUa                             Treasury          Syatems                                      TSA                                     Banks
Central Processes
Deve"lo Maka-cro Economic Framework (with Sectoral Ministry Input)                                            J                                                                        Legend
.--*    Information Flows
Bnudge1jt GuidellneS                                                          Bu--- Sdget GuidelinesJ
J   Agency Involvement in the Process
Ric-eiv-e B-u dg-et P r-o p osals   W (Mnits-tirie-s  sen d  con- solI 'date-d -propo- s-als  Budget Proposals
(including SUs) to MOF)                                                                                       ]Budget Preparation system
Consolidate Bud-get Propo~sals     i-nalize Bud-ge-t                                                          ]T
-BudijetAppm-p4i I-o-tig-nal-a-ri               r- -r-rBudget-                                BudgetI
Ministries                                                                                   Appropriitios              Appropriations
Consolidated Fiscal reports
Mo-nitor- Overall Budget_Execution --                                                                                                                              rom System
Central
Treasury Ledger&
Casth Management
--  Expenditure ManagementlControliProcesss ___
Treasury, Line Ministry Heatd Offices and SUs at the Center)-
Receive'Cash- Req-uire-m ent Forecas-ts firom Ministries                                           Cash Forecasts/Requirennents! 
Obtain Expenditure_Figures and Cash Balances from TLS
Determine Ortly Limits on Commitments ( Enter_In_System and inform Ministries)                   .4Ortlcorrmndment-LnilTits-
Determine Funds Allocationg to Ministries (Enter in System, Inform Ministries)                         Financial releases                -
_____ - -                                                               Budget ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~appro
Ministries Determine Btudget Appropriations and Commitment Limits for Stis                              o      m     ~           J       -4
Finaniaiil Release  toSAccounts (Enter into System and inform SLIs)                                 FssilRlae oSt)              7
K;equ-est-foe-E-xoenifdiidFiJ?, -AdmTni-tstaiti~/I-A~p-pvaT-W Bu-dg-IUary Zo-ntrtof--a
Ministries)                                                                               L
Co6m-mitm-e-nt-s an-d Verif-ic-ati-o-ns (ofdo-ods Receipt) Transactions                            -commitmentsANefitcations~                                                           National Bank                             Commerciat
Payment Orders_to make Expenditure-.Payment orders                                                                                                                                        ot Ukraine                                Banks
Budgetary~ Cnrol at Treasury                                                                                                    1]                                                          TSA)
Payment transcti1fons agais TS   yTesr   -Paymeni Transactions against T                                                                                                                  ~
Cre dit to -Commercial Banks of Amounts authorized for credit to Govt. Creditors                                                                                                                        Credit to Suppliers Acc,o.ts]
Daily Filei of paym ents -r-o-m- T-SA and_Reconcililation by Treasu ry                                                          F~DiyF n ot Payments from TSA 
Summary of Receipts (Tax and Non Tax) to the TSA  -_ _                                                                           ]                             S mmary of Receipts --Summary of Receipts 
Detie  Accounso   instries fro-m  ystem                                                             Det-ailed-Accounts-at Mi tne
Deaaled Sl, Accoun-ts f r onm -Syste                                                      jDetailedSUA Aount                      
in-fo-rmati-on flows_tfolfrom Subo-rdinate 'Unitt s      -                                                                                         
Uss
Regional and District Spending Unit Processes                  -RTUs                                                               Regional                                    Regional                               Branches of
Req~uest for Ex-pe-n-diture_Admini~strative Appr-ov-al  & Lo-cal_1Bu-dg-etary Cont-rol-                                                        Systems                                  Branches of                              Commercial
Com6mitmenrt-s and Verifications (of_Goods Receipt) Transactions                           U        CommitmentsNerifications'                  Modules                                      NBUt                                     Banks
Pa-ymenti O-rders to_ m- a ke_Expenditure                                                              -Payment orders --
Budigetary Control at Treasury_(RTU)    _------
Pay-me-n-tt-ra-nsacet-ions against TSA by Treasury - --       --                                                                                         Payment Transactions against TSA,   J
Creditto Commercial B-anks of Amounts authorized for credit to Go-vt. Creditors                                                                                                                        Crecht to Suppliers AccountsJ
Weaily- Fil 1-9 of' -paym ents f-rom T-S-A-   --                                                                                 1Daily File of Payments from TSA 
Summnary of Receipts (Tax and Non Tax) to the TSA                                                                                           ISummary of Receipts                             JSummary of ReceiptsJ
Detailed Accounts of SUs from System                                                                  b etailed Su Acco.nsot



-9-
(iv)  line agencies, to cater to their accounting and financial information needs; and
(v)   the Government auditing organization to access financial transaction data for
auditing purposes.
4.9   In a fully automated accounting system, as it exists in most developed countries and
several middle income countries, the basic accounting processes are automated and data captured
only once as an accounting transaction progresses through the system. Such a system, introduced
along with a modem budget classification system and an appropriate chart of accounts, enables
expenditures and revenues to be recorded at a very detailed level and related to specific programs
and projects.  Data recorded at this level can be directly used for program and project
management. This data is also easily amenable to cross classification in other ways as required for
financial analyses. In the absence of an automated accounting system, data recording is not at as
detailed a level. More important, cross classification of data to other schema is very cumbersome
and therefore is seldom carried out. The introduction of an automated accounting system would
ensure completeness of data capture (that is no transaction would be processed outside the
system) and rigorous application of appropriate financial controls to all transactions processed by
the system.
4.10  The information contained in the system data bases would provide the MOF and other
core financial agencies with comprehensive management information related to the country's
financial resources. In addition, the system would provide useful financial information to the
ministries and other spending units (in their respective areas) to enable them to better manage
their work programs.
4.11  The system will encompass the functional requirements for the budget implementation and
accounting processes and would cover the appropriation, commitment, funds allocation, and
payment processes for both the investment and current budgets. The details of the functionality
of the TLS and of the technology architecture to be used are given in Annex I.
Items to be Financed
4.12  A description of the technical assistance, computer hardware and software, and training to
be financed under the project are given in the following paragraphs.



-10-
A.    Technical Assistance (base cost US $ 2.62 million)
4.13  The IMF has been providing technical assistance to the Treasury in the development of a
new budget classification structure, a chart of accounts and the functional specifications for a fully
functioning treasury system through an expert resident in Ukraine and would continue to be
responsible for advising the MOF/ Treasury on the substantive aspects of the Budget Execution,
Cash Management and Treasury Operations. For this purpose, the IMF proposes to designate and
finance experts/ advisors to continue to advise the Government on the functional aspects of
Treasury operations and to assist the Treasury in the design and installation of the full treasury
system.
4.14  The project would supplement this with technical assistance in the functional and technical
areas as well as for project implementation as described below:
Functional Aspects:
4.15  Technical assistance in functional aspects would include:
(i)    Review of existing budget classifications and coding structures and develop and
design a revised structure and chart of accounts conforming with the IMF's GFS
classification methodology and suitable for both budget preparation and implementation.
(ii)   Developing the legal regulatory and operational framework and develop detailed
guidelines, procedures, regulations, forms and operating manuals for budget execution
processes required at all levels of Treasury operations to implement the treasury system
and for payroll management.
(iii)   Developing methods to improve forecasting of expenditure requirements and cash
management.
(iv)   Developing the fiscal reporting system of Treasury and improve linkages between
the Treasury fiscal reports and MOF analysis.
(v)   Developing detailed functional specifications for the treasury ledger system and
payroll system, including requirements for incorporating necessary expenditure control
procedures.
(vi)   Assessing  training  requirements for institutional development, including,
assessment of the skill levels of Treasury/ MOF staff to operate and manage a modem
fiscal management system as well as necessary technical skills required for the
implementation and operation of the new treasury system, and develop and implement a
training, skills upgrading and recruitment program as may be necessary.



-11-
Technical Aspects:
4.16  In the information systems area, technical assistance would be provided to develop the
technical design of the TLS and payroll system and implement the systems first at a designated set
of PILOT sites - the center, one oblast and a few (4-5) rayons and after testing the system in this
environment, replicate the new system country wide. This would include:
(i)    Developing the technology architecture for implementing the budget execution
treasury and payroll systems and specifying the hardware, software and communications
design, systems software and application software environment (UNIX, RDBMS &
Application development tools)
(ii)   Researching and identifying application software for the Treasury and payroll
systems and determine customization requirements.
(iii) Specifying the hardware and software requirements and prepare bidding
documents in accordance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines.
(iv)   Supervising implementation of the budget execution and treasury operations and
payroll systems, including:
v  Technical project coordination and systems integration;
*  Procurement of hardware and software;
v Installation and testing of H/W and S/W;
*  Customization or development (as may be required) of application software
for budget execution and treasury operations and payroll.
*  Acquisition, installation and testing of S/W for the treasury system
A  Developing operational guidelines, security and disaster recovery procedures
*  Developing procedures and check list for replicating systems at subsequent
sites.
(v)   Develop a plan for upgrading the informatics capability of the Treasury to enable it
to carry out the design, implementation, operation and maintenance of the above systems;
including:
*  Specifying an organization structure and training/ skills requirements for this
facility
*  Developing a training strategy and plans for the implementation of the systems
country wide
*  Developing end user manuals and training materials and documentation
*  Training end users at Pilot sites
*  Designing and specifying systems training facilities for the Treasury/MOF



-12-
Project Implementation
4.17  Technical assistance would also be provided to assist the Treasury to administer and
manage the project and assist with Bank procedures (project monitoring, accounting,
disbursement). A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established at the Treasury for
project monitoring, implementation, administration, procurement, and disbursement. The project
will provide financing for salaries and operating costs of the PIU.
B.    Computer Hardware and Software (base cost US $ 21.4 million)
4.18 Details of computer hardware, software, related equipment to be provided under the
project are summarized below:
Hardwvare, Systems Software and Application Development Tools, DBMS's.
Equipment (UNIX servers, work stations, networks, printers, uninterrupted power supply
[UPS], site preparation), systems software and application development tools for central
facilities at the Treasury Headquarters, Oblast and selected Rayon treasury offices. Each
office would receive an appropriately sized UNIX server, a Local Area Network (LAN), a
RDBMS and application development tools, laser and line printers and windows based
work stations and modem connections connecting with the overall treasury network.
Details of equipment to be procured would be determined by the Treasury and Project
consultants. The project would also provide some computer hardware to supplement the
hardware procured from Government's own resources, that is required for the ful
implementation of the interim system.
Application Software
Application software will be necessary for treasury systems at center, regional units, and
spending units and customization, as may be necessary, and application software to
manage and operate a payroll system for Government employees. This includes cost of
package software purchase and customization as identified by project consultants. In case
package software is not available the application software would need to be custom
developed.
Miscellaneous
These include office equipment and training facilities for Treasury, as may be necessary.



-13-
C     Training (base cost US $ 0.5 million)
4.19  Training is recognized to be a crucial element for project implementation. Training
requirements for the project can be divided into several areas:
(i)    Training in principles, concepts and methodologies of the subject areas covered by
the project, namely, budget execution, cash management and treasury operations.
(ii)   Senior level management training / orientation in the use of computer based
financial management information systems.
(iii)  End user training in the use of the computerized information systems to be set up
under the project. This would include training for line agency finance staff and for
Government auditors.
(iv)   Technical training in the use of the specific tools to be employed for developing
and implementing the information systems under the project. e.g. the chosen RDBMS, the
operating system-UNIX, application development and computer assisted software
engineering (CASE) tools, etc.
(v)   More general training related to the design and development of information
systems.
(vi)   Training in electronic data processing (EDP) project management and the
provision of end user support to staff who will use the systems.
4.20  The project would provide financing for:
(i)    Technical assistance for a training needs analysis and development of an overall
training strategy and a schedule for training users in the light of the results of the training
needs analysis; the design and specification of in-house training facilities and/ or
identification of suitable training courses within the country and abroad; the development
and acquisition of training materials, technical documentation and end user manuals.
(ii)   Training courses to be arranged at site, or in local or foreign institutes to cover the
above mentioned areas. Staff to be trained under the project would include the MOF, Line
Agency, Government Auditors, and Treasury.
(iii)   The project would also finance study assignments for government officials in the
budget execution and treasury operations areas to enable them to benefit from the
experiences of other countries in these areas. This would include financing of courses and
study tours on specific topics.



-14-
5. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS, PLANS AND
SCHEDULES, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Project Implementation Arrangements
5.1   Project Implementation Arrangements are summarized below:
(a) Implementation Period: Four Years; FY1998-FY2001
(b) Executing Agencies: The Treasury would admninister funds under the project
(c) Project Oversight: An Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee chaired by the Head of
the Treasury has been set up by a resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers on April 3, 1997
to oversee overall implementation of the project and advise on policy issues.  The
committee includes representatives of the MOF, the NBU, the National Agency for
Reconstruction and Development, the Ministry of Economy and the Treasury.
(d) Project Coordination: The working group that was part of project preparation will
now form part of project steering committee during project implementation.
(e) Project Accounting, Reporting, Monitoring, and Evaluation and Auditing: (i) A
Project Implementation Unit (PrU) in the Treasury would be responsible or activities
related to project monitoring, administration, accounting, disbursement, procurement and
periodic reporting to the Bank; (ii) Project Accounts and the Special Account will be
audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank (March 1982); (iii) World Bank supervision missions.
Implementation Strategy & Schedule
5.2   The various steps involved in the implementation of this new system are detailed in the
accompanying project implementation schedule attached as Annex II. The schedule describes the
main tasks involved in the implementation of the full treasury system and gives the estimated start
and completion dates for these tasks.
5.3   The implementation strategy adopted for the project was arrived at after an analysis of
possible alternatives in order to achieve a cost effective solution to the Government's needs for a
set of efficient and effective tools for public expenditure management. The following aspects are
particularly important:
(a) Technology Platform: The choice of an OPEN and scaleable systems technological
platform that is proposed for the project was arrived at after an analysis of other
technological options, since it strikes a balance between large main-frame systems, which
would be cumbersome and expensive and other PC based options ( e.g. stand- alone PCs)
that could be under-powered and not scaleable to sites with a large number of
transactions;



-15-
(b) Applications Software Package Selection and Systems Pilot: The Project
Implementation Schedule shows that the project would first look at feasible alternatives
for an appropriate technological platform and an off the shelf software package that could
possibly meet the Treasury requirements, after customization. This would be followed by
acquiring the application software for a few pilot sites. This software would be tested on
the computers acquired for the interim system. After the pilot system has been
implemented and the Treasury has confirmed the fit between the new system and treasury
requirements, it would be replicated across the remaining sites. The application software
would be acquired in a single contract through a process of International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). The delivery schedule for the contract would specify, first, a delivery of a
few licenses for the pilot phase only. After a successful pilot implementation, additional
copies would be acquired under the same contract for the replication phase. Custom
development of application software would be undertaken only if no off the shelf
application software package is found that could possibly be used for the Treasury system
after suitable customization. Additional hardware required for the final replication would
be procured after the Pilot exercise has been successfully completed.
Project Sustainability
5.4   The sustainability of the project would largely depend upon the commitment by the
authorities to the project objectives. Work under this project builds upon local efforts already
underway, which give a strong indication of Government commitment. Another critical condition
for project sustainability is that the Treasury be able to assimilate and retain the transfer of
technical skills. The project would build on existing efforts and supplement technical skills as
required. To institutionalize the technological changes smoothly the project would recruit foreign
and local specialists and structure training programs for staff. By developing long term training
strategies the project would ensure sustained institutional capacity. Participation of the local
private sector in systems development and implementation activities proposed in the project
would also contribute to sustainability counter balancing attrition tendencies.
Project Launch, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.5    A set of project monitoring and performance indicators have been developed (Annex III)
to measure the inputs, key process milestones, track outputs and assess the impact of the project
inputs on the project's major development objectives. These will be used as a basis for monitoring
and evaluating the project. A project launch workshop would be held in Spring 1998. The project
launch workshop would include a session on procurement.  A mid-term review to assess
performance achieved and to review the appropriateness and continuing relevance of the project
design. In addition, more concise progress reports would be provided to the Bank on a quarterly
basis by the Treasury describing the status of implementation and procurement activities.
5.6   Reporting and Annual Reviews. The Treasury will prepare semi-annual descriptive and
financial reports on each project component, objective and activity (beginning from the date of
Loan Effectiveness). The reports will describe: (i) current status; (ii) deviations, if any, from the
implementation plan; and (iii) the reasons for deviations and corrective actions being taken.
Reporting and Bank supervision will focus on reviews of. (i) the emerging policy framework;



-16-
(ii) the effectiveness of component and sub-component activities and their consistency with
agreements reached at negotiations; (iii) performance of the implementing groups and institutions;
(iv) emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters; and (v) possible follow-up operations
which could be supported by the Bank. Bank supervision will be based on the quarterly and semi-
annual progress reports and the annual evaluation of project activities by the Treasury. This will
be supplemented by a review of project expenditures and availability of financial resources, in
addition to substantive discussions with technical assistance groups implementing or assisting in
the implementation of various components, and discussions with responsible authorities. A mid-
term review of the project is planned for Spring 2000.
5.7   In view of the significant complexity and difficulty of technical assistance projects of this
sort, Bank staff and consultant supervision inputs are expected to be high and atypical, as
compared to the average, but comparable to other similar projects. It is estimated that the
requirements wili be in the range of 16-20 staff weeks per year. Supervision would include: (a)
general portfolio management - review of procurement and consultant contracting documents,
progress reports and correspondence; (b) formal reviews- participation in the midterm and other
reviews; and (c) supervision missions. At least two supervision missions would be necessary
annually each for a period of two weeks on average. Table I shows the supervision plan.
Table 1: Supervision Plan
Timing        Staff Weeks         Staffing
FY98           12 weeks          Team Leader (4 weeks)
Information Systems Specialist (4 weeks)
PFM Specialist (4 weeks)
FY99            20 weeks          Team Leader (8 weeks)
Information Systems Specialist (6 weeks)
PFM Specialist (6 weeks)
FY2000          16 weeks          Team Leader (6 weeks)
Information Systems Specialist (6 weeks)
PFM Specialist (4 weeks)
FY 2001         10 weeks          Team Leader (4 weeks)
Information Systems Specialist (4 weeks)
PFM Specialist (2 weeks)



-17-
6. PROJECT FINANCING, COSTS & PROCUREMENT
AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Financing and Costs
6.1   The proposed Bank loan of US$ 16.4 million equivalent will finance 70 percent of the
total project investment costs and 70.2 percent of the foreign exchange costs. The Government
will finance 37 percent of project investment costs. This includes US$ 6.39 million equivalent for
hardware and software for the interim system, and duties and taxes which are estimated at US$
3.41 million equivalent. Recurrent incremental costs, which comprise equipment operations and
maintenance and facilities service costs (US$ 0.7 million equivalent), will be financed entirely by
the Government. It is expected that the IMF would designate and finance specialist advisors for
varying periods of time up to a total of 24 person months, to assist in the design and
implementation of the system.
6.2   Project costs and financing plan is shown in Table II. This table also shows total project
costs, by project component and by expenditure category. Project costs include a physical
contingency for unforeseen variations (US$ 0.906 million) equivalent to about 5% percent of the
base cost of all project items. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$ 23.285
million including contingencies, or 86.6 percent of total project costs. Taxes and duties on goods
and service contracts are calculated at 25 percent. Therefore, project costs include an estimated
US$ 3.41 million equivalent in direct and indirect taxes and duties on goods and services, to be
financed by the Government. About US$0.7 million equivalent is required to cover incremental
operating costs directly attributable to the Project during the period July 1997 to December 2001.
These consist of incremental operation and maintenance expenditure for equipment and facilities
related charges. Detailed Cost Tables are attached at Annex IV.



-18-
Table II: Financing Plan by Financier and Component
(Total amounts including duties and taxes)
Cost Component       IBRD    %    Govt.   %    Total   For.    %    Local   %    Duties
Exch.         (exclud        and
ing           Taxes
Taxes)
Equipment         &
Software
Standard H/W and S/W   10,379   54   8,995    46   19,374   16,779   87   -              2,595
Application S/W       2,714    80   679      20   3,393    2,714    80   -               679
Sub Total             13,093   56   9,673    44   22,767   19,494   86   -               3,273
Technical Assistance
Information   Systems  1,906    100  -       -     1,906    1,906    100  -        100
Experts                       I_I
Treasury     Systems  545     80   136       20   682       545     80   -         -     136
Experts
Project Implementation  271   100  -         -    271       271     100  -         100
Support                                                                           _
Sub Total            2,722    95   136       5    2,859    2,723    95   -               136
Training           IlI
Training     courses, 585     100  -         -    544       544     100  -         -    -
fellowships, study tours
& attachments)
Total    Investment  16,400   63   9,810    37   26,170   22,760   87   -          8    3,410
Costs
Recurrent Costs
HIW,  S/W,  Maint.J  -        -    696       100  696       525     71   171       29   -
License        Fees,
Telecommunications
costs, and incremental
operational  expenses
during        project
implementation
period
Total                -        -    696       -    696      500      -     171      -    3,410
Total Project Costs    16,400   61   10,506   39   26,866   23,285   79   171      8    3,410



-19-
Procurement Arrangements and Schedules
6.3    Procurement arrangements under the Project are summarized in Table III.
Table m: Procurement Arrangements
Total Cost, including contingencies, taxes and duties
(US$ million) a
Expenditure Type                   ICB             Other             NBF d             Total
Equipment
Standard Hardware and      8.88              1.5              8.99              19.37
Software      (8.88) b          (1.5)c                            (10.38)
Application Software     2.71                               0.68              3.39
(2.71)                                              (2.71)
Consulting Services                                 2.72              0.14             2.86
(2.72)                             (2.72)
Training                                            0.54                               0.54
(0.54)e                            (0.54)
Total                             11.59             4.76              9.81             26.16
(11.59)           (4.76)                            (6.36)
Recurrent Costs
Equipment Operations  and                                             0.70             0.70
Maintenance, includin2 H/W.
Software       Maintenance,
License Fees, etc.
Total                                                                 0.70             0.70
Total Project Costs               11.59             4.76             10.50             26.86
(11.59)           (4.76)                            (16.36)
Notes:
a: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
b: Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts financed by IBRD.
c: Includes International shopping (IS) for small amounts of goods not exceeding $300,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1.000 million; prudent National Shopping may be used for sundry
items not exceeding US $ 25,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of $0.350 million. Direct
contracting for proprietazy, time critical or special compatible equipment may be used up to an
aggregate amount of US 0. 15 million equivalent subject to Bank's prior review.
d: NBF: Not Bank Financed includes, US$6.4 million of equipment and software acquired by the
Government from its own resources and US$3.27 million in taxes and US$ 0.7 million in recurrent
costs to be paid by the Government.
e: Includes Bank financed consulting services and training to be procured in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for use of consultants.
6.4.    Procurement of Goods. Equipment contracts which are estimated to cost more than
US$300,000 equivalent per contract will be procured following international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under MBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" January 1995, revised January and August 1996. Equipment procurement has
been packaged according to related specialized fields (para. 6.8). Equipment procured through
ICB will account for about 90 percent of the total equipment value financed by the Bank (US$
9.38 million out of a total equipment cost of US$10.38 million (excluding duties and taxes). For
contracts or goods to be awarded on the basis of ICB, the Borrower may, as set forth in the Loan



-20-
Agreement, grant a margin of preference in the evaluation of bids up to 15% or the amount of
applicable custom duties, which ever is lower, to qualified domestic manufacturers of goods in
accordance with the World Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995, revised January and
August 1996). The General Procurement Notice for the project will appear in the January 98
edition of United Nations Development Business.
Methods other than ICB
6.5  International Shopping. Procedures for International Shopping will be used for small
amounts of equipment where the cost of ICB would clearly outweigh possible price advantages.
Contracts for equipment costing less than $300,000 equivalent, not to exceed an aggregate
amount of US$1.0 million equivalent, will be awarded under international shopping procedures,
based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two eligible
countries.
6.6   National Shopping (NS).  Minor sundry items, such as small lots of information
technologies and office equipment, not exceeding US$25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.350 million equivalent, could be purchased on the basis of prudent national
shopping by comparing price quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers.
6.7.  Direct Contracting (DC). Goods and technical licenses which: (i) are of proprietary
nature; or (ii) need to be compatible with other installed equipment, may be procured through
direct negotiations with property and/or copyright owners, on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank. Such items include contracts for intellectual property such as books, technical journals,
training materials, audio-visual materials, computer applications software, including annual
upgrading and licensing arrangements, copyrights, translation and reprinting rights for training
materials, are estimated to cost under US$150,000 equivalent in the aggregate.
6.8   Table IV shows the major procurement packages for goods. The major procurement of the
hardware and software has been separated in to three ICB packages for the following reasons:
(a)   Package-I consists of the hardware requirements for the interim  system
(comprising only standard hardware and software- mainly PCs and servers and some LAN
equipment). This has to be procured about a year or more earlier than the equipment for
the full system.
(b)   Package-2 is for the application software for the full system. The application
software is sold by specialized firms and is best procured separately from these firms. This
procurement will take place about 9-12 months after the interim system has been put in
place.
(c)   Package-3 will be the hardware for the full system and will be procured one year
after the purchase of the first package.
Since the project envisages the employment of a UNIX / OPEN systems environment, the
separate purchases of hardware as envisaged under packages 1 and 3 and application software
under package 2 would not pose any compatibility problems or restrict competition for bidding.



-21-
Table IV: Summary of Major Procurement Packages for Goods
(Costs excluding taxes and duties)
Component/           Estimated    Procurement  Start Doc.  Invitation   Award  Contract
Package              Cost        Method      Preparatio            Contract   Completion
US$ million             n
Standard Hardware and  3.1       ICB         2/98       4/98       10/98     12/98
Software for Interim
System
Standard Hardware and  5.78      ICB         10/98      12/98      2/99       12/2000
Software for Full System
Application Software    2.71     ICB         2/98       4/98       10/98      12/2000
Technical Assistance
6.9    As discussed in chapter 4, the major technical assistance required in the functional area
would be provided by experts deputed and financed by the IMF. The project would supplement
this technical assistance in specific areas. Technical assistance assignments are estimated at US
$2.72 million equivalent. Consulting services will be contracted in accordance with the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1995 (The Consultant
Guidelines). Firms and individuals will be selected for consultant assignments in accordance with
the Bank's consultant guidelines. The Terms of Reference of all assignments would be subject to
Bank's prior review. The following methods of procurement, summarized in Table V, will be
followed.:
(a)    Quality and Cost Based Selection: A set of consultancies valued at US$1.25
million equivalent, comprising Information Systems Specialists with wide international
experience in the implementation of accounting systems would be contracted
internationally utilizing the procedures prescribed for the Quality and Cost Based Method
of Selection (QCBS) from short listed firms. This group would typically include
Applications Systems analysts, Systems Software Specialists, Database Specialists and
Networking Specialists.
(b)   Individual Consultant Procedures will be used for small consultant contracts up
to US$100,000 each. Many of the services provided under the project involve contracting
of specialized experts, both national and international as individuals where knowledge of
the various disciplines to be treated under the project is the paramount requirement. The
following categories of experts would be contracted under these procedures:
(i)    Treasury Experts: These assignments require specific skills normally
available from ex-Treasury/MOF officials from other countries with relevant
experience. The total estimate for these services is US$ 0.54 million equivalent.
(ii)   Technical Experts for Project Implementation (Computer Programmers,
End User Support Staff Training and Documentation Specialists): This category
of experts are mainly intended to supplement the shortage of technical skills in the



-22-
Treasury and required for project implementation. This category of experts would
be procured at a total cost of US$0.65 million equivalent.
(iii)   Procurement, Disbursement and Accounting Specialists: These personnel
are required to staff the PIU, and this set of consultancies is valued at US$ 0.24
million equivalent. Procurement specialists hired under this category would enable
the Treasury to manage the procurement arrangements relating to consultants and
equipment required for the project.
6.10   Table V shows the major procurement packages for technical assistance.
Table V: Summary of Procurement Packages for Technical Assistance a
Est. Cost    Procurement  Start       Invitation    Award       Contract
Package              US $ million  Method      Tender                    Contract     Completion
Preparation
Infornation   Systems  1.25       S/L (QCBS)  11/97         12/97        2/98        6/2000
Specialists
Treasury Experts     0.54        Individuals    11/97       12/97       2/98         6/2000
(based   on
qualifications)
Technical experts for 0.65        Individuals    10/98      12/98       2/99         6/2000
project implementation            (based   on
qualifications)
Procurement/         0.24        Individuals    11/97       12/97        2/98        6/2000
Disbursement/                    (based   on
Accounting Specialists            qualifications)
a = Detailed list of experts is given at Annex V
6.11   The Treasury is the main implementing agency of the project. It is felt that the Treasury
would require assistance in activities related to implementing the project and therefore as
mentioned in paragraph 4.17 a PIU would be set up to, inter-alia, assist in procurement activities.
The project would finance procurement specialists to ensure that procurement activities are
carried out in a cost effective manner and in accordance with Bank procedures. A Country
Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) has not been prepared for the Ukraine. For this project
the Government would follow agreed Bank procurement procedures as described above and as
set forth in the Loan agreement.
6.12 Bank Review. For goods, the Bank shall review the Borrower's procurement plans,
decisions and procedures in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for Procurement under
IMRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995). In particular: (i) each contract estimated to cost
US$300,000 or more, which will cover all ICB contracts; and (ii) all DC shall be subject to prior
review, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 of the above Guidelines Other contracts
for goods for amounts less than US$300,000, shall be subject to post review. Terms of reference
for all consulting contracts would require prior review by the Bank. Consultants contracts above
$100,000 for firns and above $50,000 for individuals would require prior review by the Bank.
However, for technical assistance contracts under US$100,000 for firms and under US$50,000
for individuals, the Bank will require prior review of only the terms of reference and short-lists of
candidates.



-23-
Disbursement and Financing Schedules
6.13  Disbursements.  Disbursements against contracts for goods less than US$300,000
equivalent would be made on the basis of statement of expenses (SOE). SOE will also be used
for all consulting firm contracts less than $100,000 and individual consultants contracts less than
US$50,000 and for all expenses on training, fellowships and studies. All related SOE
documentation would be retained by the Treasury, the implementing agency, and made available
for subsequent examination by independent auditors and Bank supervision missions.  The
proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of five years. The closing date will be
June 30, 2002.
6.14 Disbursements of World Bank Funds will be made as shown in Table VI. A summary of
the disbursement plan is shown in Table VII.
Table VI: Proposed Disbursement Categories
Category                 Amount of Loan          Percent of Expenditures to
(US$ million)                be Financed
Equipment & Software                    12.0             100   percent  of  foreign
expenditures and 100 percent
of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 80 percent of
other local expenditures
Consulting Services                     2.22             100 percent of expenditures
Training                                0.5              100 percent of expenditures
Project Implementation Unit             0.28             100 percent of expenditures
Un-allocated                            1.4
Total                                   16.4



-24-
Table VII
Disbursement by Semesters
Total Project Costs
(US$ 000)
Semester         IBRD Financing  Costs  to   be Cash Flow           Cumulative
Financed                          Cash Flow
1                                 4,738.5          -4,738.5         -4,738.5
2                1,273.2          4,738.5          -3,465.3         -8,203.7
3                1,273.2          1,729.2          -456.0           -8,659.7
4                1,416.2          1,729.2          -313.0           -8,972.7
5                1,416.2          3,615.3          -2,199.1         -11,171.8
6                2,857.0          3,615.3          -758.3           -11,930.2
7                2,857.0          3,350.1          -493.1           -12,423.3
8                2,633.6          3,350.1          -716.5           -13,139.8
9                2,664.4                        _ 2,664.4           -10,475.3
Total            16.4             26,866.3         -10.506.1        -10.506.1
Financial Management System
6.15 The Treasury is responsible for the accounting function for the Government as a whole.
Staff in Treasury are therefore familiar with accounting and auditing practices, standards, and
internal controls required to ensure adherence to proper accounting and auditing standards. The
project will nevertheless provide assistance to the PIU to finance accounting and disbursement
specialists, acceptable to the Bank, to ensure that a proper financial management system is in
place. An appropriate accounting system, acceptable to the Bank, will be set up, and project
related accounting/auditing and disbursement activities are to be carried out satisfactorily and in
accordance with Bank procedures. Periodic project reports would, inter-alia, include: (a) financial
statements that give an assessment of the projects financial status, including reports of costs
actually incurred by expenditure category (specified in Table II) and variances compared to the
plan for the period; (b) project progress reports, that give a summary of the status of the project
and explanation and variances in key project indicators listed at Annex III; and (c) procurement
management reports giving status and details of contracts above the prior review threshold.
Special Account
6.16  The Borrower will establish and maintain a Special Account (as specified in the Loan
Agreement) with an authorized allocation of US$1,600,000. This will be exclusively for making
payments from the proceeds of the Bank Loan. The initial deposit of the authorized allocation
will be limited to US$800,000 and the remaining portion of the authorized allocation would be
released when disbursements reach a level of US$3,000,000: In addition:
(i)   All applications for direct payment or special commitments must be for an amount
not less than 20 percent of the initial deposit of the authorized allocation to the special
account or not less than 20 percent of the full authorized allocation once available; and



-25-
(ii)   Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted on a
monthly basis or when one third of the amount deposited has been withdrawn, which ever
occurred earlier. Submission of replenishment applications takes precedence over the
minimum size application as stated in (i) above.
Project Audits
6.17 Project Accounts and the Special Account will be audited in accordance with the Guidelines
for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). A
Bank approved auditor will be identified prior to effectiveness. The Borrower will provide the
Bank (within six months of the end of each fiscal year), an audit report of such scope and detail as
the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank, on disbursements against certified SOE. The separate opinion should
mention whether the SOEs subniitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawal applications.



-26-
8. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benerits
8.1   Current budget processes in Ukraine suffer from the following basic weaknesses: (a) the
budget classification system is not useful for allocating resources to specific areas and functions;
(b) the budget execution processes cannot ensure that actual public expenditures are according to
budgeted categories; (c) the system of transferring funds to spending unit bank accounts, leads to
a situation where significant idle balances are built up in these accounts while the MOF is in
deficit in overall terms, thereby creating arrears or necessitating further borrowing; and (d) the
MOF does have access to timely and accurate information on public expenditures and receipts to
enable it to perform its functions. The project would help remove each of these weaknesses by:
(a) implementing a GFS based classification system that would give the Government a tool to
improve resource allocation and enable functional and economic analyses of the budget to be
carried out; (b) improving budget execution processes which will enable implementation of
improved expenditure controls in Government and assist in ensuring that these expenditures
follow approved budget appropriations; (c) implementing a Treasury Single Account at the NBU
and centralizing payment processing through Treasury which would eliminate the need of separate
agency bank accounts and the danger of idle balance build up; and (d) implementing a TLS that
would provide the MOF a means to obtain timely, consistent and accurate financial information.
8.2   These actions, taken together, will enable Government to improve resource planning, cash
management, budgeting and public expenditure management and control. The improvements in
the quality and timeliness of financial information and improvement in the capacity to carry out
functional and economic analyses of the budget would promote the capacity to properly formulate
and execute fiscal policies. The consistency in the classification of expenditure items and an
effective system to control and monitor cash flows would enhance transparency and accountability
in the fiscal process.
8.3   The total cost of the project is a very small fraction of the projected annual public
expenditures in 1997. The benefits of even minor improvements to the efficiency, effectiveness or
management of public expenditure, which would arise from improved financial information and
control would significantly exceed project costs. The net development impact of the project is
therefore expected to be positive. The fiscal impact of the project cost would be negligible.
Critical Assumptions and Risks
8.4   Continued Government commitment to reform of the public sector and to strengthening
the basic economic management institutions is a pre- requisite for successful project
implementation. Specifically, by improving the quality of fiscal management systems the project
would introduce transparency in the fiscal and resource allocation and expenditure processes.
This would affect those who benefit from the current weaknesses. These interests may act to
delay the project actions and divert it from its objectives. The Government has indicated its



-27-
commitment to treasury system reform and has set an explicit timetable for the implementation of
a full treasury system. Moreover, work under this project builds upon efforts already underway.
These factors mitigate against some of the risks involved.
8.5  Introduction of the new institutional structure of budget execution would require a
reorganization and re- alignment of the roles and responsibilities of related government agencies,
such as the MOF, the NBU, the Treasury, as well as the relationships with the line ministries.
Another key element is the requirement that the TSA be established at the NBU and spending unit
accounts at commercial banks be closed and payment processing centralized through Treasury.
Implementation of these aspects would need government support at the highest levels, who
recognize the need for change, to ensure that the change process is completed smoothly. A
phased and gradual introduction of new policies and procedures and a broad training program in
the use of the new systems and methodologies would allow a wider appreciation of benefits and
would enhance ownership.
8.6   The project would need to cope with: (a) the organizational capacities of the Treasury to
manage project implementation; (b) lack of adequate technical skills within the Government; (c)
the ability of Government to retain staff who have been trained. To ameliorate this risk the project
would provide financing for hiring project implementation specialists and other technical skills
from the private sector as required. However, it is likely that an ongoing policy of training would
need    to    be    adopted    with    significant    attrition    rates    expected.



-28-
9. AGREEMENTS REACHED
9.1   During appraisal agreements were reached with the Government that the following actions
would be completed before loan negotiations: (a) a GFS consistent budget classification system
and a treasury chart of accounts embodying this classification would be adopted; and (b) central
payment processing would be introduced for payments related to the Kiev University, the Ministry
of Health, the Chernobyl and Employment Funds. Both conditions have been met.
9.2   During negotiations agreements were reached with the Government that as a condition for
Board presentation, the Treasury will have to submit to the Bank evidence that the PIU has been
established. This condition has been met.



Annex I
Page 1 of 2
Detailed Functionality of the Treasury Ledger System
and the Technology Architecture Required for Implementation
A.    Functionality
The Treasury Ledger System would have a capability to:
(i)    Record initial budgets and distribute the budget appropriations as approved by the
legislature, to spending ministries and keep a record of initial budgets, revised budgets,
and budget transfers, for a typical government spending unit.
(ii)   Distribute appropriation and commitment authorizations to spending units and to
record commitments incurred by a spending unit against the approved limits and the
appropriation during the course of a year.
(iii)   Distribute funds allocations to spending units and keep a record of the amounts of
funds allocations against the appropriations and any changes thereto.
(iv)   Record expenditure against commitments and funds allocations (e.g.. due to
purchase orders, or other payments). The system will have facilities to check availability
of appropriation, commitment and funds allocation prior to approving a payment.
(v)   Print consolidated payment instructions for action by the banking system.
(vi)   Record revenue and other receipts against appropriate account heads.
(vii)  If required, print checks against payment instructions and or make arrangements
for the electronic transfer of payment information to an external paying entity.( e.g. a
bank).
(viii)  Consolidate data from all ministries and regional offices, as necessary. The
system will have good report writing facilitates and enable easy retrieval and reporting on
data in the system data bases, in a variety of formats. The system would be able to
produce the commonly required accounting and management reports.
(ix)   The system would have facilities to restrict access only to duly authorized staff.
B.    Technology Architecture Requiredfor the Information Systems
Hardware Configuration: Implementation of the treasury system would require a distributed
architecture with computer processing power located at the various nodes of the network (the
center, the regional treasury units at the Oblasts and the Rayons and the line agencies). These



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
nodes would be connected via the public switched data network that is available in Ukraine. The
transaction processing and database management required at each node would be carried out by
the computers installed at these nodes. Summary or detailed data. as required, would be
transmitted via telecommunications facilities to the central computers located at the Treasury
office in Kiev. Such an architecture distributes computing power, commensurate with needs, to
different nodes of the network, thereby optimizing usage and making it more reliable and less
vulnerable to malfunctions at a single central site. In addition, end users at the regional treasury
units and spending agencies would have better control over their technological and data resources
and this fosters a sense of ownership for the systems they use. The size and distribution of
computing power across the various nodes of the network will be determined by the volumes of
data and transactions that are generated and stored at the various nodes and the volumes and
frequencies of data that are transmitted between the nodes.  Information gathered from
discussions with the Treasury has been used to estimate the size and location of computers. This
information is being progressively refined by the consultants during the preparation phase of the
project, by undertaking actual surveys to gather data for each site.
Software Characteristics: The nature of the application systems requires that the same core
functionality be available at all nodes of the network. Thus, for example, the core functionality
requirements will be similar at all Regional Treasury Units. Therefore the same application
software package would need to be replicated at multiple sites. This characteristic requires that
the application software be scaleable and be able to run on small or large computers without
major changes. Scalability can be achieved either by choosing a line of computers of varying
capacities which are fully compatible from the software perspective. However, such a choice
would restrict further additions to the network to this vendor and to this line of computers.
Alternatively, to avoid these restrictions, the application systems should be developed using
application development tools and Relational Data Base Management System (RDBMS)
software that can operate on machines of different sizes offered by several vendors. This feature
is called software portability.
Several application development and RDBMS packages are available in the market which
are both vertically and horizontally portable. Ideally the way to ensure vertical and horizontal
portability and scalability at the various nodes of the network is to choose hardware and software
that subscribes to the OPEN systems concepts. In practice, the environment that comes closest to
this concept in current technology is the UNIX environment. Applications developed under this
environment would be able to run, with minimum changes, on any computer that has a UNIX
based operating system. Most hardware vendors now offer a version of UNIX as an operating
systems alternative. Another operating systems option that is gaining popularity in view of its
relative simplicity is Windows NT. The project therefore proposes to use UNIX or Windows NT
as the operating systems environmnents across the nodes of the network. In addition the
application development environment chosen will use Fourth Generation Languages (4GLs) and
Relational Database Management Systems and associated development tools, Graphical User
Interfaces (GUIs), to increase application development productivity and offer a user friendly
environment for data access and usage. This approach strikes a balance between large main
frame systems which would be cumbersome and expensive and other options which could be
under powered and not scaleable to sites with a large number of transactions.



Annex II: Ukraine- Treasury Systems Project - Implementation Schedule
_9I s7     I         g8          1  -'    99                     00                    01
ID   Task Name                                          Duration       1       6       |123456789                 123456789             123456789             123456789
I    Bank Project Processing                                437d
2        World Bank Identification Mission                    2w
3        PHRD Grant Funds available                           ld
4        Pre - Appraisal mission                             10d
5        Appraisal Mission                                    2w
6        Project Negotiations at World Bank                   1w
7        Board Approval                                       1 d
8        Loan Effectiveness                                   Id
9    Appoint IMF Advisor/Experts                            1     _20w  .   .     .     ,      :     _.
10   Select and Appoint Information Systems and Treasury     24w
Experts (Consultants -PHRD financed)              __:___.
11   Select and Appoint Information Systems and Treasury     24w
Experts (Consultants -Project Financed) _____ ___.__:_
12   Develop and Implement Interim System                  1261d
13        Document Functional Requirements for Financing     52w  _          .   .... . _
and Payment Processes and App. SNW Specs.    ._._._._.
14        Develop/ Customize Application Software for        52w         :      :-_77 :
Interim System
15        Procure and Install Hardware for Interim System    52w                . . _         .
(Government Financed)                        ._.___:
16       Procure Hardware for Interim System ( Bank          26w
Financed)          _____ __               _.-.
1 7       Install Interim System Country Wide                 2
18       Interim System Installed                             Od
19       Operate Interim system                             135w
20   Finalize and Document Treasury System                  120d
Functional Requirements       _         ____ _.___
21        Bud Exec Processes and Guidelines, Chart of        24w
Accounts, Trans. Docs. Inform Flows, ReportsD D
22   Develop Operating Manuals and detailed                 260d
Instructions        _________________________    ;                                       ________                    ____________________________          _______ag
Page 1                                                                                       w



Annex II: Ukraine- Treasury Systems Project - Implementation Schedule                                                                                                         0
97                   98                   99                    0001                       1X
ID   Task Name                                         Duration       1 )2i3L4L5L6J7J8|9J F | 1231415167 89| |  12345 19              123456789             1  3456789 H
23       Finalize Legal Framework and Regulations,          52w                                                        _H
Develop Detailed Operating Manuals/Directives    _    |_._._I
24   Develop Technical Systems Design For Full             120d
_____ Treasury Ledger System _m ___         _     ___:.
25       Develop High Level Design and Technical            24w
Architecture
26       Develop Detailed Software                          24w
Requirements/specifications    __.___
27       Develop HNv Specifications                         24w_:_-.__________________
28   Procure & Customize Application Software              120d
_pplication Software              __
29       App. SN Search, Procurement, Testing,              24w
Evaluation, Contract Award
30   Install Systems                                       120d
31       Install, Customize and Test Application SNv ( TLS  24w
and Payroll systems) (Pilot Sites)  _       ___
32       Customize /Develop training material               t2w
33       Train Users (Pilot Sites)                          12w       . _  _  _ __ _
34       Complete Pilot System Installation                  Od
35   Replicate at Remaining Sites                          180C
36       Procure and Install Any Additional HNv Required    36w.
37   Replicate systems at all remaining sites260d
38       Receive and Install HNV and Systems SAN            24w
39       Install and Test Application SAN (TLS/Payroll)     24w
40       Train Users (TLS/Payroll)                          24w
41       Cut over to Full System (TLS/Payroll)              24w
42       TLS/Payroll fully operational                       Od
43       Systems Replication Completed                       O
44   Assessinst'itut'ional development requirements     945d
Page 2



-Annex II: Ukraine- Treasury Systems Project - Implementation Schedule
97         1         98                   99                   00                   01
ID   Task Name                                        Duration   I I |1 12131415161718191 | | 112131415161718191 | |11121314151617189 1| 1213141516171819 123456789
45       Training needs analysis                            8w
46       Implement Training/ skills Upgrading/Recruitment  100w
Program
47       Project Complete                                   Od
(CD 
Page 3                                                                                     o
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



(D~
'--i
Annex III - Project Performance Monitoring Indicators
Objectives                 Ensure smooth and timely execution of the budget, while minimizing the cost of Government financing throughi the establishmilent of improved Treasury
operations and cash management processes, procedures and systems.
Input Indicators           Process Indicators                                   Output Indicators                                    Impact In(dicators
Consultancy Services       The followinig activities will be completed in       Full finctional design of systems, processes and     T'he systems implemented under the project
financed by the project in    accordance with the project implementation schedule.   procedures for ''reasury Operations completed and  will give the government the ability to
various aspects of                                                              implemented ;                                        produce budget projections, functional and
Treasury Operations and    Engagement of Consultants;                                                                                economic analysis, fiscal reports consistent
Cash Malnagement,                                                               GFS consistent budget classification system  approved   with GIS classification.
Information Systems        Design and development of a fuill ftinctional treasury    and effective for all Government expenditure, revenue
Design and Development.   system and a payroll system;                          and financing operations;                            The new 'FSA'based liniancial management
procedtires, covering cash allocation,
Development of methiodologies for ef'fective cash   I)etailed regulations and operating maniuals covering    commitment, payment processing, accounting
flardware, Systems         management;                                         'I'reasury Single Account (TSA) based budget          and reporting, implemented under the project,
Software and Application                                                        execution processes (cash allocationi, commitment and   will enable commitment, payment and
Software required for the  Development of a plan for upgrading the informatics   payment control, payment processing, accounting and   internal audit control at the Center, and at all
Treasury Operation System   capability for the Treasury IMOI for the management   reporting) completed and in use;                   Oblasts and Rayon branches of the Treasury.
at Regional and District   of the above systems;
Treasury Units and                                                              Technical design of Treasury Ledger and Playroll     A pilot for the payroll system will be
Center.                    Development of a training strategy and plan for the  Systems completed and implemented;                   introduiced whicih vill enable personnel
implementation of the revised Treasury Operations                                                        control and direct salary deposits to staff
System.                                             Treasury training center established and operational  bank accounits.
and adequate numbers of staif trained in the use of the
Acquisition, Delivery, installation and testing of I I/W    new  Treasury and Payroll Systems;           The TSA based bud(get cxecution processes
and S/W per implementation schedule;                                                                     will result in improved Cash maniagemiient. At
I I/W, S/W delivered, installe(d and tested;         least 80% of the national governmi)elnt
Application SIW tested for the following minimum    payments, by amount, will he routedl throtigi
Iunctionallity for the Treasury Ledger System:      the Treasury.
maintaining and processing cash allocation,
colmlm)itmllelit, paymenit and( receipts transactions,  Improved cash mianagcient systemii will
accountinig lor government finianicial assets and    reduce total government cash balances with
liabilities and producing core Financial reports    the banking system to at least half the present
re(luired by the MOF/ Treasury, and the required    amounit.
functionality for the lPayroll System;



Cost Table I
Ukraine
Tresawy Systems Project
Expenditur Accounts B.sualdown
All Detailed Tables (USS '00)
Physical
Plus
Bass Cost                       Physical Cotingeoncies               Tce Contingencls           _otaltontl. Coen.                       Base Costs   Price
Local                                 LOCAl                             Localt                                Local                          * Price   Cool, ont
fE6cl.  Duties &              for.   (E.ct.  Duties &           For.   (Excl.  Duties                         (Execl.  Duties &             Ceonl on   Phylcal
for. Exht.  Teats)   Taxes      Total    Exth.  Tes) T_1xs    Toalx   Exch.  Tates)   Taxes    Tetal  For. Exth.  7sxes)   Texes              Total   Base Costs  Cont.
1. Invernflsot Costs
A. Technical Assistance
fl10llsrweSysltels LePot                             1,7200       -                1. 7200    n0o        -              860    t87         -         '    B8.7     1,872.7                       1,872.7     1,7B3B     89.2
Treasury Sysleoro Experts                              5000              125.0      625.0    25.0        .      6 3     31.3    20-4               5.1    23.5       540.4      -      138.4      681.8       640.3     32.0
Subtotal TechnicalAsslstance                           2.2200              125.0     2.3450    111.0             683  117.3    672                   5.1    923      2,4182        -     1364   2.5545   2,432.Y    t216
B Trainitg                                               500.0                 -       50000    25 0       -25.0    368                      .              1886       5438                          5 43 6     557.7     25.9
C. Equilprnnlt
StandardtHW&SW                                       9.5000        -    2,3750    11.8750    4750        -    1188    5936    404.3             t0t   S00.3    10i379 3               2,594.8    12974t1   12.3563    6t7.
Standard HNWand SIW Govt Frnanced                    6.400 0       -         .     6,400.0       -       -        -                                                6,400.0                 -    68400.0     6,400.0
Alst,Katmnns N                                       2.500 0      .      1025.0    3,125.0  1325.0       -     31.3   108.3    804 A              22.4  111.       2.714 4             67086     3.393 0    3,231.4    161.6
SubtotalEqsipment                                     18,4000       .    3,000.0    21400.0   6000               1f00   7500   493                 1234    617.1   1943.7               32734    22,707.1   21.9877    T77.4
D. PIU
ConsuiarnlSalanestAtxwancs                             2450        -         -       245.0    12.3       -        -    12.3      93             -          9.3       2666                  -       2666       253.9     12.7
Operabonal expenses                                     35.0       -         .        35.0     1.S       -        -      L       14        -         -     1.4        35.1      -         -         38.1       36.3       18
SsblelalP3U                              2800   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~----  .   280.0    14.0       .               4       17                  * 07            304.7      .304 7                        2902      14.5
Total tRwestmnenlCosts                                  21,4000       .    3.125O    24,520.0   700.0              1503   90.3   6102                128.5   738.7   22,7602         -    3,4098    26.199    25.2280     941.4
Ii Recu"nen Costs
A Mantlenance and License Fres,T.lecomm 0sts             525 0    1750                 70.         .3.7                                                -    .37       0250    171 3 76683                       868.
Total Rerestnt Costs                                       5250    1750                7000   _                                              .37              .3.7      0525.0  17123.                696.3       69638
Tolal                                                   21,9250    1750    3.1250    25.2250    750:0              1503  9063   610.2    -37         128.5   7350    23.2i52    171.3    3,4098    26,8663    25.9248       9414
5QtP
(D  (D
04
O C
Fh



Cost Table 2                                                                    , V
Ukraine                                                                    o C
Treasury Systems Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies                                      %D
All Detailed Tables (US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1998      1999       2000      2001     2002      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Information Systems Experts                           265.3      539.5     546.8      521.2       -     1,872.7
Treasury Systems Experts                                  -      269.8     273.4      138.6       -       681.8
Subtotal Technical Assistance                           265.3      809.3     820.2      659.8       -     2,554.5
B. Training                                              106.1     107.9     218.7      110.9               543.6
C. Equipment
Standard HW&SW                                       1,989.4    1,348.8   4,784.4   4,851.4       -    12,974.1
Standard HNWand SNV Govt Financed                    6,400.0         -         -          -       -    6,400.0
Applications SN                                       663.1    1,011.6    1,025.2     693.1       -     3,393.0
Subtotal Equipment                                     9,052.6   2,360.4    5,809.7   5,544.5       -    22,767.1
D. PIU
Consultant SalarieslAllowances                         47.7       70.1      71.1       77.6       -       266.6
Operational expenses                                    5.3       10.8      10.9       11.1       -        38.1
Subtotal PIU                                             53.1       80.9      82.0       88.7       -       304.7
Total Investment Costs                                   9,477.0    3,358.4    6,930.6   6,403.9      -    26,169.9
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Maintenance and License Fees,Telecomm costs              -      100.0     300.0      296.3               696.3
Total Recurrent Costs                                         -      100.0     300.0      296.3       -       696.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      9,477.0    3,458.4    7,230.6   6,700.2       -    26,866.3



Cost Table 3
Ukraine
Treasury Systems Project
Project Components by Year - Base Costs
All Detailed Tables (USS '000)
Base Cost
1998      1999      2000      2001      2002     Total
Treasury Systems                        9,300.0   3,212.5   6,637.5   6,075.0       -   25,225.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                       9,300.0   3,212.5   6,637.5   6,075.0       -   25,225.0
Physical Contingencies                    145.0     155.6     316.9     288.8       -       906.3
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                   5.5      14.1      48.5      60.4        -      128.5
Foreign                                26.5      76.2     227.8     279.8        -      610.2
Subtotal Inflation                       32.0      90.3     276.2     340.1               738.7
Devaluation                                           -         -       -3.7      -        -3.7
Subtotal Price Contingencies               32.0      90.3     276.2     336.5        -      735.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                        9,477.0   3,458.4   7,230.6   6,700.2       -   26,866.3
Taxes                                     530.5     526&0    t,216.6    1,136.6      -    3,409.8
Foreign Exchange                        8,946.5   2,907.4   5,939.0   5,492.3            23,285.2
rd>
(D (D
x
w-
+ c



m
Cost Table 4                                                           H
Ukraine                                                       o
Trreasury Systems Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Base Costs
All Detailed Tables (US$ '000)
Base Cost                          Foreign Exchange
1998      1999      2000       2001     2002      Total      %      Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Information Systems Experts                             250.0     500.0      500.0     470.0        -     1,720.0   100.0    1,720.0
Treasury Systems Experts                                    -      250.0     250.0      125.0       -      625.0    80.0       500.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                             250.0     750.0      750.0     595.0        -     2,345.0    94.7    2,220.0
B. Training                                               100.0     100.0      200.0     100.0        -      500.0   100.0       500.0
C. Equipment
Standard HW&SW                                         1,875.0   1,250.0   4,375.0   4,375.0        -    11,875.0    80.0    9,500.0
Standard H/Wand S/W Govt Financed                      6,400.0        -          -         -        -     6,400.0   100.0    6,400.0
Applications SN/                                        625.0      937.5     937.5     625.0        -     3,125.0    80.0    2,500.0
Subtotal Equipment                                       8,900.0    2,187.5    5,312.5   5,000.0      -    21,400.0    86.0   18,400.0
D. PIU
Consultant Salaries/Allowances                           45.0       65.0      65.0      70.0        -      245.0   100.0       245.0
Operational expenses                                      5.0       10.0      10.0      10.0        -       35.0   100.0        35.0
Subtotal PIU                                               50.0      75.0       75.0      80.0       -       280.0   100.0       280.0
Total Investment Costs                                     9,300.0   3,112.5   6,337.5    5,775.0       -   24,525.0    87.3   21,400.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Maintenance and License Fees,Telecomm costs                -      100.0     300.0     300.0        -      700.0    75.0       525.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                           -      100.0     300.0     300.0       -       700.0    75.0       525.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       9,300.0   3,212.5   6,637.5   6,075.0        -    25,225.0    86.9   21,925.0
Physical Contingencies                                    145.0     155.6      316.9     288.8       -       906.3    82.8       750.0
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                                   5.5       14.1      48.5      60.4        -      128.5
Foreign                                                26.5       76.2     227.8     279.8        -      610.2   100.0       610.2
Subtotal Inflation                                       32.0       90.3     276.2     340.1        -      738.7    82.6       610.2
Devaluation                                                 -         -          -       -3.7      -        -3.7       -
Subtotal Price Contingencies                               32.0      90.3      276.2     336.5       -       735.0    83.0       610.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        9,477.0   3,458.4   7,230.6   6,700.2        -   26,866.3    86.7   23,285.2
Taxes                                                     530.5     526.0    1,216.6    1,136.6      -     3,409.8       -
Foreign Exchange                                         8,946.5   2,907.4    5,939.0   5,492.3      -   23,285.2



Cost Table 5
Ukraine
T reasury Systems Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
All Detailed Tables
%     % Total
(Local '000)                     (US$ 000)              Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign      Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Information Systems Experts                               -     3,354.0    3,354.0         -     1,720.0     1,720.0     100       7
Treasury Systems Experts                              243.8       975.0    1,218.8     125.0       500.0      625.0       80       2
Subtotal Technical Assistance                           243.8     4,329.0    4,572.8     125.0     2,220.0    2,345.0       95       9
B. Training                                                 -      975.0       975.0         -       500.0      500.0      100       2
C. Equipment
Standard HW&SW                                       4,631.3    18,525.0    23,156.3    2,375.0  9,500.0    11,875.0      80      47
Standard H/Wand Sl\ Govt Financed                         -    12,480.0   12,480.0         -     6,400.0     6,400.0     100      25
Applications SAN                                     1,218.8    4,875.0    6,093.8     625.0     2,500.0    3,125.0       80       12
Subtotal Equipment                                     5,850.0   35,880.0   41,730.0    3,000.0    18,400.0   21,400.0      86      85
D. PIU
Consultant Salaries/Allowances                            -       477.8      477.8         -       245.0      245.0      100        I
Operational expenses                                      -       68.3        68.3         -        35.0       35.0      100
Subtotal PIU                                                -      546.0       546.0         -       280.0      280.0      100       1
Total Investment Costs                                   6,093.8   41,730.0   47,823.8    3,125.0   21,400.0   24,525.0       87      97
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Maintenance and License Fees,Telecomm costs          341.3     1,023.8    1,365.0     175.0       525.0      700.0       75        3
Total Recurrent Costs                                     341.3     1,023.8    1,365.0     175.0       525.0      700.0       75       3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     6,435.0    42,753.8   49,188.8   3,300.0    21,925.0   25,225.0      87      100
Physical Contingencies                                  304.7     1,462.5    1,767.2     156.3       750.0      906.3       83       4
Price Contingencies                                     364.3     1,739.0    2,103.3     124.9       610.2      735.0       83       3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      7,104.0    45,955.3    53,059.2    3,581.1    23,285.2    26,866.3   87      107
x
OIQ Di
(D (D
0
i-h



OJQ :J
Cost Table 6                                                   N
Ukraine                                                     0
Treasury Systems Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
All Detailed Tables (US$ '000)
Local
The Government          tBRD                Total                   4Excl.  Duties &
Amount      %      Amount       %      Amount       %     For. Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Information Systems Experts                                -       -     1,872.7   100.0    1,872.7      7.0    1,872.7        -         -
Treasury Systems Experts                               136.4    20.0       545.4    80.0      681.8      2.5      545.4        -     136.4
Subtotal Technical Assistance                            136.4     5.3    2,418.2    94.7    2,554.5       9.5    .2,418.2       -     136.4
8. Training                                                  -       -       543.6   100.0       543.6     2.0      543.6        -         -
C. Equipment
Standard HW&SW                                        2,594.8    20.0   10,379.3    80.0   12,9741      48.3   10,379.3        -    2,594.8
Slandard HNVand SNW Govt Financed                     6,400.0   100.0          -       -    6,400.0    23.8    6i400.0         -         -
Applications SAN                                       678.6    20.0    2,714.4    80.0    3,393.0    12.6    2,714.4          -     678.6
Subtotal Equipment                                      9,673.4    42.5    13,093.7    57.5   22,767.1    84.7   19,493.7        -    3,273.4
0. Piu
Consultant Salaries/Allowances                             -       -       266.6   100.0       266.6     1.0      266.6        -
Operational expenses                                       -       -        38.1   100.0        38.1     0.1       38.1        -
Subtotal PIU                                                 -       -       304.7   100.0      304.7      1.1      304.7       -
Total Investment Costs                                    9,809.8    37.5   16,360.2    62.5   26,169.9    97.4   22,760.2         -    3,409.8
li. Recurrent Costs
A. Maintenance and License Fees,Telecomm costs           696.3   100.0           -       -      696.3      2.6      525.0   171.3
Total Recurrent Costs                                      696.3   100.0          -        -      696.3      2.6      525.0   171.3
Total Disbursement                                       10,506.1    39.1   16,360.2    60.9   26,866.3   100.0   23,285.2   171.3   3,409.8



Cost Table 7
Ukraine
Treasury Systems Project
Table 1. Treasury Operations
Detailed Costs
AN Deailed Tables
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont. (USS
L 000)                      Parameters (in %)
Lotal                         PIty.
Base Cost 1US$ 000)                                Totals Including Contingencies USS '000)                     (Exct.   Duttes &             Cont.   For.    Gross
Unlt     1998       Is99      2000      2001      2002     Total      199B      1999       2000      2001     2002      Total    For. Exch.  Texas)   Tunes      Total     Rate   Exch.  Tax Rate
1. tt rnl taCosts
A. Technisca Assistance
Information Systems Expets (Local)       amount       250.0     500.0     500.0      470.0       -     1.720.0     265.3     539.5     540.t      521.2             1,872.7    1,872.7                 -    '1,872.7     S 0    100 0      0 0
Treasury Systems Exopers                 amount           .     2500      2500       12S0               6250                 26300     273.4      1386               681.        5450.4            136.4       681.      S 0    800       200
Subtotal Technical Assistance                           250 0     750.0     7500       09 0        -    2,345.0     265.3      809.3     020.2     659.6       -     2.554.5    2,416.2              020.4    2,554.5
9. Equipment
Standanrd.lardwar and System Software    amount      1,875.0   1,2500    4,3750    4.375.0            11.875 0    1080.4    1.348.0    4,784 4    4,551.4         t2.974.1    10.379.3            2,594.0    1,974.1     50     50.0      20.0
KW S    GOVT Foansed                     amrunt     6,400.0         .         .          .             6400.0   0.400.0          -         -         -              0.400.0    6.400.0                        . 6,4000   00    100.0       0.0
APPatroO So1nware                        amount       625 0     937.5     037.5      025.0             3,025.0      63.1 1'011.8 14023.2          83.1        -     3,393 0    2.714,4            3,8.0 3432 .0         50    8000       200 
Subtotal Eqalpmenl                                    8.90000    2.107.5   52312.0   0,000.0            21,400.0   8,002.6   2,200.4   5.009 7    5,044.0           22.707,1    09,403.7       - 3.273 4    22.707 I
C Traiing                                  amount       1000      1000      200.0      100.0       -      500.0      106.1     107.9     210.7      110.9              043.6      543.6        -         -       0436      50    1000        00
t. Ptoject ltmplemtntalton Unit
Consurant Salaries/Allowances            amount        45.0      65.0      650        70.0               245.0      47.7      70.1      71.1       77.6              268.6       266.6                         262.8     5.0   100.0       00
Operatlonaltexpenses                     amount         50       100        00.0      10.0       -        35.0       5.3      10.8       10.9      11.1               30.1        38.1       .                  32.1     5.0   100.0       0.0
Subtotal Project tmplementation Unit                     50.0      75.0      75.0       00.0       .      260.0      03.1       80        0 82 0     e.?7              304 7      304.7        -                 304.7
Total tnvestment Costs                                  9,300.0   3,1125    6,337,5    5,775.0       -    24.5250    0,477.0   3,350.4   0,930.6   6,403.9       -   26,169.9   22,760.2         -   3,409.8   20.1099
I. Recurrent Costt
W1, SWNMainI. Licence fees, Tetecom costs  amount           -     100.0     3000       3000        -      7000                 100.0     300.0     290.3               896.3      525.0   171.3          -       696.3     0.0    750        0.0
Total Recurr ntCosts                                                too00     3000       3000               700.0                100.0     3000      296.3            26086.3       525.0   171.3    3            696.3
Total                                                    0.32000    2.212 0    6.637,5    0,070.0         25.220 0    0,477.0   2,450.4   7,2305 0   ,700.2       - 26,866.3    23,285.2   171.3   3.409 6    26.056 3
lS
i-A
O C
0<



x
00
1--
0 <
Cost Table 8
Ukraine
Treasury Systems Project
Table 1. Treasury Operatons
Detailed Costs
All Detailed Tables
Expenditures by Financiers (USS 000)
The Govemment                                                     IBRD
Unit      1998     1999      2000      2001      2002      Total      1998      1999       2000      2001      2002      Total
L tnvestment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Intormation Systems Experts (Local)                            amount                                                                   265.3      539.5     546.8     521.2              1.8727
Treasury Systems Experts                                       amount                 54.0      54.7       27.7       -       136.4         -      215.8     218.7      110.9       -       545.4
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                     -    54.0       54.7       27.7       -       136.4     265.3      755.3     765.5     632.1        -    2,41802
B. Equipment
Standard Hardware and System Sottware                          amount       397.9   269.8      956.9      970.3       -    2,594.8    1,591.5    1,079.0   3,827.6    3,881.1       -   10,379.3
HVW SNV GOVT Financed                                          amount      6,400.0                            - -           6,400.0
Application Software                                           amount        132.6   202.3      205.0     138.6       -       678.6     530.5      809.3     820.2      554.4             2,7144
Subtotal Equlpment                                                           6,930.5   472.1    1,161.9    1,108.9            9,673.4   2,122.1    1,888.3   4,647.8    4,435.6            13,0937
C. Training (courses,tellowships,sludy tours,alttachments)       amount           -        -         -          -       -                 106 1      107.9     218.7      110.9       -       543.6
0. Project Implementation Unit
ConsultantSalanes/Allowances                                   amount                -                        -       -           -      47.7       70.1      71.1       77.6       -       266.6
Operabional expenses                                           amount                     -              -        -         -             5.3       10.8      10.9       11.1       -        38.1
Subtotal Project Implementation Unit                                              -        -                                        -      53.1       80.9      82.0      88.7                304.7
Total Investment Costs                                                         6,930.5   526.0    1,216.6   1,136.6             9,809.8    2,546.5   2,832.4   5,714.0   5,267.3             16,360.2
II. Recurrent Costs
HNV, SAN Maint, Licence fees, Telecom costs                      amount           -   100.0      300.0      296.3               696.3         -         -          - 3                           -
Total Recurrent Costs                                                               -   100.0      300.0      296.3    _          696.3                ---
Total                                                                          6,930.5   626.0    1,516.6   1,433.0             10,506.1   2,546.5   2,832.4   5,714.0   5,267.3         -    16,360 2



Cost Table 9
Ukraine
Treasury Systems Project
I nflation and Exchange Rates
All Detailed Tables
Upto
Up to     Project
Negotiation   Start    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Inflation (in %s) la
Most Goods and Services
Annual rates
Local                                            0.0      0.0    25.0    15.0    11.0    10.0    10.0
Foreign                                          0.0      0.0      2.1      1.3      1.4      1.4      1.4
Compounded rates
Local                                            0.0      0.0    12.5    34.4    51.7    67.5    84.3
Foreign                                          0.0      0.0      1.1      2.8      4.2      5.6     7.1
Exchange rates (Local/Foreign) lb
Most Goods and Services
Rates actually used                                2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.1     2.1
Constant purchasing parity rates                   2.0      2.0      2.2      2.5      2.8      3.1      3.4
% deviation                                        0.0      0.0   -10.2   -23.5   -31.3   -33.7   -38.9
Zero
Rates actually used                                2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.1     2.1
Constant purchasing parity rates                   2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0
% deviation                                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      5.1     5.1
\a Yearly values are within Each Project Year
\b Yearly values are at Project Year Midpoints
D
I-C



Annex V
Detailed List of Technical Assistance Requirements .
Method of Selection             Item                               Estimated    Estimated Annual Rate   Approximate Time Period
Number                US$
Quality and Cost Based Selection
Information Systems Specialists   Systems Analysts                     2               US$ 60,000                  3 years
(Estimated Total Cost      Systems Software Specialists          1               US$ 60,000                  3 years
US $ 1.25 million)
Database Specialists                  2               US$ 60,000                  3 years
Networking Specialists                2               US$ 60000                   3 years
Individual Consultant
Procedures
Category I - Treasuty Experts    Functional Treasumy Specialist        I              US$ 100,000                  4 ycars
(Estimated Total Cost US$0.54   Accouniting Specialist               1              US$ 1(0,000                  1.5 years
million)
Category II - Tchlinical Experts   Computer Programmers                7              US$ 24,000                   3 years
for Project Implementation
(Estimated Totzil Cost US$0.65    Eiitd lJser Sutpport Staff         2               US$ 18,000                  2 years
Iillionl)
Documentation/ Training               I              US$ 18,000                   2 years
Specialists
Category III- Staff for PIU     Procurement Specialists                2              US $ 12,000                  4 years
(Estimated Total Cost US $ 0.24   Disbursement/ Accounting           3               US $12,000                  4 years
million)            Specialists



