                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32311


                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-42850)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$16.4 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                                UKRAINE

                                                 FOR A

                                   TREASURY SYSTEMS PROJECT




                                              May 25, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector
Europe and Central Asia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective May 25, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = UAH Hrivnya
                                1 UAH Hrivnya = US$ 0.20
                                         US$ 1 = 5.045 UAH




                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1    Decmber 31




                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADETEF French Government's Aid Agency                PAL      Programmatic Adjustment Loan

AS     Name of the Treasury System developed by      PHRD     Policy and Human Resources Development
KAZNA  the Treasury                                           Grant

CIS    Commonweatlh of Independent States            PIU      Project Implementation Unit
COA    Chart of Accounts                             PSRML Public Sector Resource Management Loan
DBMS   Database Management System                    QAE      Quality at Entry
ECA    Europe and Central Asia Region                RDBMS Relational Database Management System
FAD    Fiscal Affairs Department                     STU      State Tax Administration
FSU    Former Soviet Union                           SU       Spending Unit
GFS    Government Finance Statistics                 S/W      Software
H/W    Hardware                                      TA       Technical Assistance
IBL    Institution Building Loan                     TLS      Treasury Ledger System
ICB    International Competitive Bidding             TSA      Treasury Single Account
IMF    International Monetary Fund                   TSP      Treasury Systems Project
IT     Information Technology                        UNIX     Name of computer operations system
LAN    Local Area Network                            USAID    United States Agency for International
                                                              Development
MOF    Ministry of Finance                           WAN      Wide Area Network
NBU    National Bank of Ukraine                      WB       World Bank




                                 Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                              Country Director     Paul G. Bermingham
                               Sector Manager      Deborah L. Wetzel
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Cem Dener

                                          UKRAINE
                             TREASURY SYSTEMS PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27

Project ID: P049174                                                  Project Name: Treasury Systems Project
Team Leader: Cem Dener                                               TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 25, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Treasury Systems Project                                 L/C/TF Number: SCL-42850
   Country/Department: UKRAINE                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (94%); Law and justice (6%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (P); Law reform (S);
                            Standards and financial reporting (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01.23.1997                                     Effective: 03.01.1998                07.27.1999
     Appraisal: 07.31.1997                                         MTR: 02.15.2000                  10.17.2002
      Approval: 02.24.1998                                      Closing: 06.30.2002                 12.31.2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          UKRAINE/TREASURY DEPARTMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Paul G. Bermingham                             Paul J. Siegelbaum
Sector Manager:                 Deborah L. Wetzel                              Sanjay Pradhan
Team Leader at ICR:             Cem Dener
ICR Primary Author:             Ali Hashim


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
         The overall objective of the project is to assist the Government to design and implement a fully
functional, automated Treasury system that would serve as an effective instrument for budget execution
and cash management.

Context:

         The objectives of the Treasury Systems Project (TSP) need to be assessed in the context of the
fiscal problems encountered by the Government and the reform agenda pursued by it at the time of project
inception. In the mid-nineties when this project was being prepared, one of the key issues facing the
Government and leading to an unsustainable fiscal situation was that the Government had been running up
arrears and postponing expenditures caused by an unrealistic budget and by poor expenditure management
and control. Previous analyses by the Government, the IMF and the Bank had highlighted significant
weaknesses in the budget system and the financial management of government resources. (Ukraine--A
Program to Set Up a Treasury System, IMF/FAD, April 1993. Garamfalvi, et al.). The key weaknesses of
the previous system, as documented by this work, were:

   l lack of a macro economic framework needed for formulation of the budget and making of revenue
         and expenditure projections;

   l diffusion of responsibilities for fiscal matters among a number of different entities within the
         Government in addition to the MOF;

   l inappropriate legal framework for budget preparation, approval, implementation and monitoring;

   l inappropriate budget classifications, which did not allow meaningful budget monitoring;

   l lack of administrative capacity to adjust the budget in response to changing circumstances;

   l lack of reliable, comprehensive and timely accounting information;

   l underdeveloped debt and cash management operations that are not linked to overall budget
         management; and

   l dispersion of budget money in many spending units accounts, instead of concentrating money in a
         Treasury Single Account (TSA), which made cash management difficult.

Government Fiscal Reform Program

         In response to this situation, the Government of Ukraine initiated a fiscal reform program in 1994
to address these issues. As part of this program, and with IMF assistance, the Government developed a
comprehensive strategy to introduce a fully functioning Treasury. The various elements of this strategy are
summarized below:

   l Preparation of comprehensive legislation to support the establishment of the Treasury and its
         functions and to define budget preparation and budget execution procedures (1995).

   l Establishing a Treasury organization, including establishment of regional (oblast level) and district
         (rayon level) Treasury units which would take over budget execution and primary accounting
         responsibilities from the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU), and introduce required reforms to
         centralize fiscal monitoring and control functions in the Treasury.



                                                     - 2 -

   l Revision (1997) of the budget classification structure to conform with the IMF's Government
        Finance Statistics (GFS) in order to facilitate a strategic overview of the allocation of budget
        resources between sectors of the economy and for inter-country and time-series comparisons. The
        new budget classification structure also allowed the Treasury to identify the resources allocated to
        each line ministry and to ensure proper accountability.

   l Re-engineering Treasury processes and setting up new procedures for budget execution.
        Replacement of the existing system of fiscal transfers to Spending Unit (SU) bank accounts with a
        system of Treasury warrants that would set the limit for expenditure for the line ministries by
        program and line items, using the new budget classification code. The line ministries would in turn
        distribute the warrant allocation to SUs by the same classification code by issue of sub-warrants.
        The regional offices were made responsible for ex-ante control of all payment orders raised by SUs
        against their cash allocations, for calculating the division of designated tax revenues between the
        central government and the local governments, and for advising the NBU regional branches of the
        allocation of revenues. This reform intended to achieve optimum use of the cash resources and
        prevent accumulation of idle cash balances.

   l Closing down bank accounts held by the spending units and bringing them under the control of the
        Treasury; progressive consolidation of these accounts at the regional branches of the Central Bank
        (NBU); setting up a Treasury Single Account (TSA) at the headquarters of the Central Bank in
        Kyiv with daily transfers of balances to this account from the regional branches of the NBU.

   l Creation of a Treasury Ledger System (TLS) based on a new chart of accounts, which includes
        ledgers for financial accounting as well as for monitoring of budget implementation. The TLS was
        based on the new chart of accounts (COA) adopted for use in 1997. The new COA reflected the
        new budget classification of revenues and expenditures. The TLS also has provisions for recording
        data on original budgets, revisions as approved by the Budget department, warrants issued by the
        Treasury and sub-warrants by line ministries at regional level and expenditures against these
        warrants.

   l Design and implementation of a modern, automated, and integrated Treasury System for
        government financial management to support the re-engineered Treasury processes and procedures.


This reform strategy was implemented in a phased manner over the period 1994-2002.

        Originally, assistance from the World Bank to the Treasury had started under the Treasury
Component of an Institution Building Loan (IBL). In 1997 work was carried out under the Treasury
component of the IBL to elaborate drafts of legislative and normative acts for the Treasury and to analyze
the Treasury department's functional and organizational structure. Assistance was also provided for setting
up a basic computer-based system to support the Treasury in budget execution processes. The present
project built on this work and designed and implemented a fully functioning Treasury system.

        Several other donors, such as USAID and the French ADETEF, were also actively involved at this
time in designing and implementing reforms in the public sector in Ukraine. In the case of the Treasury,
USAID and ADETEF contributed to an analysis of application software options for the Treasury system
and ADETEF assisted in arranging for the training of Treasury staff on the concepts and functioning of a
modern Treasury system with agencies of the French Government.




                                                     - 3 -

Assessment of Project Objectives:

        In view of the above, the objectives of the Treasury Project reflected essential priorities for fiscal
management in Ukraine as identified by the Government, the IMF and the Bank at that time. They were
consistent with Government strategy for setting up institutions, systems and procedures necessary to
establish a fully functioning Treasury function within Government. The objectives were however very
ambitious since the implementation of the Treasury function, ab-initio, involved introducing change on a
massive scale, government-wide. However, these changes were essential for the desired transition to a
market economy.

3.2 Revised Objective:
        The overall objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
        This is essentially a single component project that was designed to provide technical assistance,
computer equipment, software and training to enable the Government to design, develop, test, and
implement processes, procedures and systems, related regulations and training programs for budget
execution and treasury operations. The project would first provide support, to enhance the basic system
developed under the Institutional Building Loan (the interim system) and extend it across the country. It
would then design a more comprehensive Treasury system, implement it in a set of pilot rayons and rayons
and then replicate it through out the country. Details of project inputs are as follows:

         A.      Technical Assistance (base cost US$2.62 million).The IMF was responsible for advising
        the MOF/Treasury on the substantive aspects of Budget Execution, Cash Management, and
        Treasury Operations. This assistance was delivered through a Resident IMF Treasury advisor. The
        project would provide TA for the design of an automated Treasury system to support Treasury
        operations. This included: (i) extending the work done by the IMF advisor into a full set of
        functional specifications for the Treasury system, incorporating the key characteristics of the
        overall design, as specified by the IMF (e.g., new COA, re-engineered Treasury processes, etc.);
        (ii) developing the technology architecture for implementing the treasury systems and specifying
        the H/W, S/W and communications design, systems software and application S/W environment
        (UNIX, DBMS, and application development tools); (iii) researching and identifying and/or
        developing application software for the Treasury system;          (iv) specifying the hardware and
        software requirements and preparing bidding documents in accordance with World Bank
        procurement guidelines; (iv) supervising implementation of the Treasury system. In addition,
        technical assistance was also be provided to assist the Treasury to administer and manage the
        project and assist with Bank procedures (project monitoring, accounting, and disbursement).

        B.        Computer Hardware and Software (base cost US$21.4 million). This included: (i)
        equipment (UNIX servers, work stations, equipment and software for local and wide area
        networks, printers, UPS, site preparation), systems software and application development tools for
        central facilities at the Treasury Headquarters, oblast and rayon Treasury offices. Each Treasury
        office would receive an appropriately sized UNIX server, a LAN network, a RDBMS, application
        development tools, laser and line printers, Windows-based work stations, and WAN equipment to
        connect to the overall Treasury network; and (ii) application software for Treasury systems at the
        center, regional units, and spending units, and customization, as may be necessary.

        C.       Training (base cost US$0.5 million). Training was recognized to be a crucial element for
        project implementation. The project provided financing for: (i) technical assistance for a training



                                                     - 4 -

         needs analysis; identification of suitable training courses within the country and abroad; the
         development/acquisition of training materials, technical documentation, and end-user manuals; (ii)
         training courses arranged at site, or in local or foreign institutes to cover these areas. Staff trained
         under the project included the MOF/Line Agency/Treasury staff and technical staff of the
         MOF/Treasury involved in the development and implementation of the systems; and (iii) study
         tours abroad for government officials in the budget execution and treasury operations areas to
         enable them to benefit from the experiences of other Governments in these areas.

         The project provided financing for essential technical assistance required for the detailed design of
the systems, for the computer hardware, software and training required for their implementation. Project
activities were consistent with the requirements of setting up a Treasury system in the country. The phasing
of project activities which included a pilot phase and, on successful completion of this phase, replication of
the system across the country, was in line with the required phasing for similar projects, which involved the
implementation of large scale information systems, countrywide.

3.4 Revised Components:
         The project components were not revised. However, as a result of advice based on analyses by two
sets of consultants, one financed by the USAID and the other by the French Government, both of whom
were of the opinion that since during the early years of project implementation, Treasury processes and
procedures were still being modified frequently, and had not been stabilized and incorporated in the legal
framework, it would be better for the Treasury to invest in custom development of application software
rather than the acquisition of an off-the-shelf application software package for the budget execution part.
The project therefore financed the acquisition of consulting services from a group of technical consultants
who designed, developed, and implemented the Treasury system. The Treasury did acquire an off-the-shelf
package to interface the Treasury system with the banking system. Project-financed consultants helped the
Treasury to integrate this with the custom-developed Treasury system.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
          A formal Quality at Entry (QAE) assessment was not carried out before the start of the project.
However, project objectives were consistent with Government priorities and the Bank's strategy as
envisaged in the Public Sector Resource Management Loan (PSRML) adjustment operation that was
initiated at about the same time and were proven feasible during implementation. The conceptual design of
the Treasury system was based on the IMF's design which was being successfully introduced elsewhere in
the Former Soviet Union (FSU). The implementation approach was also appropriate, with a pilot phase to
test the functionality of the systems, before being adopted nationwide. Counterparts were committed to the
operation and were involved in all phases of project preparation. However, the project was launched in a
challenging environment as the political consensus on reforms within the country was evolving. It was an
ambitious project and involved extensive changes to the existing system of fiscal management and control.
The project design catered adequately to technical aspects but underestimated considerations of the political
economy. This led to delays during project effectiveness and implementation. A better analysis of the
political economy and institutional stakeholders might have mitigated the very slow start up of the project.
However, the technical design proposed for the Treasury system and its phasing envisaged in the project
and the commitment level of the MOF and the Treasury management were appropriate. Gaps in
institutional capacity were supplemented by technical assistance provided through the project. The project
objectives were achieved. Therefore, on balance QAE is assessed as satisfactory.




                                                      - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

        The project has successfully assisted the Government in setting up a Treasury function, has
modernized Treasury operations, and has upgraded the Government's capacity for fiscal management.
Reform measures included the design and implementation of the underlying legal framework, the setting up
of the organizational arrangements for Treasury-based payment and receipts processing and design of the
associated systems and procedures. These measures have provided the Treasury the capacity to monitor
budget execution closely, collect and provide the MOF comprehensive reliable and timely information
required for the management of government expenditure and has significantly improved the capacity of the
Government for fiscal management. The overall objectives of the project have been successfully
accomplished and the achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory.

        It is interesting to see the data on Government fiscal deficits in Ukraine for the period 1994-2004
as shown the table below:

                      General Government Fiscal deficit ( % of GDP) - IMF Figures
  1994       1995      1996       1997      1998      1999      2000    2001       2002      2003       2004
   -7.8      -4.9       -3.2      -5.4      -2.8       -2.4     -1.3     -1.6      +0.5       -0.9      -4.4

        It is observed that in response to the reform measures initiated by the Government during the
period 1994- 2000, which included the establishment of the Treasury and were generally characterized by
better budget management and improved fiscal control, the fiscal deficit reduced significantly. The rise in
the defict during 2004 is attributed to the loosening of fiscal control and granting very large increases in
benefits (e.g., pensions) prior to the national elections in 2004.

        Details of Treasury-specific reforms implemented over the period 1998-2004 are given below. The
necessary legal framework that authorizes the Treasury to control budget execution is in place. The State
Treasury has been set up as a separate organization under the MOF and has taken over budget execution
functions formerly carried out by financing departments of the MOF and the National Bank of Ukraine. A
three-tier Treasury organization has been set up with offices at the center, the 27 oblast treasury offices and
640 rayon Treasury offices. A GFS-conformant Budget classification structure has been implemented since
1998. A Treasury Single Account has been established at the National Bank of Ukraine at the center in
Kyiv and at the oblast branches of the Central Bank. Most spending units' bank accounts have been closed
and Government finances are lodged in the Central Bank. Budget execution processes have been
re-engineered and spending units now route all of their expenditure transactions, including those relating to
staff salaries, through designated treasury offices. Budget appropriations approved by Parliament are
recorded in the Treasury system, as are planned expenditures for each spending unit, by month and type of
expenditure. During the course of the year the MOF issues periodic warrants to spending ministries which
define the limits of expenditure for that month. The Treasury offices check for availability of budget and
cash and pass these transactions to their parent oblast Treasury office which then processes them through
correspondent accounts set up at the oblast branch of the National Bank of Ukraine. After approval the
Treasury forwards the payment request to the designated branch of the Central Bank that holds the TSA
and the bank pays the government creditor. This payment could be in the form of a check or a direct deposit
to the creditors' bank account in a private bank. A commitment system has been instituted for contracts
exceeding a specified threshold. A full set of fiscal reports are produced by the system to assist the
Government in the management of its financial resources.




                                                       - 6 -

         Over the period 1997-2002, the scope of the Treasury system has been gradually extended to cover
all central government budget operations, including former extra-budgetary funds and off-budget revenue
activities of the central government institutions. Starting from FY2000, off-budget activities of budget
institutions and most extra-budgetary funds are covered by the formal budget appropriation process. The
Treasury system has become the repository of information for all initial budget allocations and any changes
introduced during the course of the year. A basic commitment registration and control system has been
initiated from FY2001.

         All information on cash flows related to tax administration are routed through the Treasury.
Typically, a taxpayer would instruct his Bank to make a payment on his behalf for a specific tax to a
specified Treasury correspondent account at the respective oblast branch of the NBU. The Treasury
receives information about these deposits by type of tax including details about the taxpayer from the NBU.
This information is then passed on by the Treasury to the TSA office at the oblast and rayon levels. Since
August 2002, Customs receipts are also deposited in the Treasury correspondent accounts with the NBU as
explained above for tax administration, and Treasury informs the Customs Department about the
collections. All customs-related expenditures are now also handled by the Treasury.

         At present, only selected national security agencies remain outside the purview of the project. Even
for these agencies, payments related to their headquarters (e.g., salaries of staff and other expenses) are
handled through the Treasury.

         In accordance with a Government decree, the Treasury has extended the coverage of the system to
the local budgets. This is beyond the scope of the project as originally designed. Extending Treasury
coverage to local budget execution allows the uniform application of expenditure and procurement control
regulations and better information on the fiscal position of all levels of government budgets in Ukraine.
Local government revenue and expenditure transactions are now also routed through the Treasury with
effect from January 2004.

         However, achievement of project objectives has not been achieved without difficulties. Opposition
from groups who perceived this change as a threat, delayed project effectiveness. These factors are
discussed in more detail in Section 5.2         below and caused a delay of about 12 months in project
effectiveness. In addition, the slow pace of project implementation in the earlier years during which the
underlying concepts of the Treasury reform and associated systems were still being debated, caused
schedule slippages and the project closing date had to be extended by two and a half years. However, as
pointed out in a recent study carried out at the Bank and discussed in Section 8, the time taken to complete
the project is not out of line with the time taken for similar projects in many countries.

4.2 Outputs by components:

         As mentioned earlier, this is a single component project. However, the major outputs for each of
the notional sub-components are described below.

(a)      Technical Assistance. As mentioned earlier, the overall functional design of the Treasury system
was carried out under advice from the IMF. Technical assistance on the substantive aspects of the Treasury
was provided by the IMF through the resident IMF Treasury advisor. The Project supplemented this
assistance by financing the consultants for the technical design, development, and implementation of the
automated Treasury system developed under the project. The design phase was completed successfully and
the outputs from this phase were satisfactory. This phase resulted in: (i) a full statement of functional
requirements for the Treasury system. The functional design included a description of information flows,



                                                       - 7 -

procedures, transaction types, associated documents and forms, the organizational arrangements required to
operate the new systems and the reports to be generated. It also developed detailed documentation for the
overall systems and its operation, the detailed functional requirements and systems specifications for the
application software required to support them, in addition to their interfaces with external systems; (ii)
design of technology architecture. This task involved definition of the size and configuration of the
hardware and software to be installed at the nodes, as well as the mode of intercommunication, and
specifications for the hardware and systems software required at the various sites for each phase of the
project; (iii) preparation of tender documents for system procurement in accordance with the World Bank
guidelines for procurement of computer systems; and (iv) design of a training program describing the
training courses required for the operation of the system and highlighting the numbers and types of staff to
be trained in each area.

(b)      Computer Hardware and Software: The outputs from this component are rated satisfactory. The
project first financed hardware and software to upgrade the interim Treasury system that was first
established by the Government using its own finances in the mid nineties. These improvements related to
upgrades in hardware, systems software and application software and were designed with a view to enable
the system to act as an effective interim tool for budget execution and control. The Treasury then upgraded
this interim system to a new more full function system, termed the AS KAZNA, as agreed with a joint
Bank /IMF (FAD) mission in 2000.

         The AS KAZNA system was first piloted at a designated set of oblasts and rayons and then
subsequently replicated across all oblasts and rayons over the period 2000- 2004. The system has been
established at all oblasts and rayons. The system is being used to process all central government
expenditure and revenue transactions at all oblasts and all associated rayons and the Headquarters. In
addition, as of December 2003, the AS KAZNA system is also being used to process local government
expenditure and revenue transactions in all oblasts and rayons.

         The Treasury system "KAZNA" designed and implemented under the project is operating in a
stable mode. Typically between 60-100 local users and 400 remote users are connected to the system
running at a given oblast on a given day. The total number of concurrent users, country wide is about 8000.
The system processes about 94 million transactions per year country wide. Out of this number, 70 million
transactions relate to revenue and 24 million transactions relate to expenditure.

         The AS KAZNA system operates under an oblast-based centralized environment. This means that
the application software resides at the oblast and the rayon offices are required to connect to this in an
on-line mode to process transactions. This facilitates system maintenance and upgrades. However, it also
imposes additional communications requirements. For satisfactory operations an online telecommunications
link with a minimum speed of 19.2 kbs is required between all rayon offices and their parent offices at the
oblast level. The Treasury has worked with UKR Telecom for the provision of adequate numbers of good
quality communication lines between the rayon and the oblast treasury offices and between the oblasts and
the central Treasury. For the connections from the oblast to central Treasury the Treasury now has frame
relay channels operating at a bandwidth of 64 kbs over fiber optic medium. For the rayons to oblasts a mix
of analog channels, frame relay connections, and x.25 channels are currently used to connect all rayons to
their respective oblasts. Data transmission speeds over these channels vary between 19.2 to 64 kbs. It
appears that the Treasury has been able to overcome the anticipated problems related to
telecommunications.

(c)      Training: The outputs from this component are rated as satisfactory. As part of the AS KAZNA
roll-out process,     the Treasury has conducted an extensive training program for the training of


                                                     - 8 -

management, technical, and operational staff. Training of functional staff and managers included definition
of the concepts of a Treasury-centric budget execution system and how the automated treasury system will
be used to carry out the budget execution process Documentation has been developed that describes
operational procedures for carrying out treasury functions using the new system. The training program has
proceeded successfully and between 10-15 staff have been trained for each oblast who then serve as
trainers for staff at their oblasts and associated rayons. A total of about 337 trainers have been trained in
the use of KAZNA over the last three years. These staff then provide hands-on assistance and training to
Treasury office staff in their regions. The Treasury system is now operating in all regional (oblast) and
district (rayon) offices and all relevant staff have been trained in its use. The Treasury has planned an
ongoing training program for managers and operational staff at professional training institutes at Kyiv and
Dnieperopetrovsk and it is envisaged that about 1,000 staff would be trained on an ongoing basis each
year.

         The Treasury has followed this up by organizing extensive seminars for training of its staff, as
well as senior financial staff of the user ministries and local governments. This training focused on the
functional aspects of the new treasury system, using the Treasury training facility and the detailed
functional requirement documents. A detailed training program for the senior staff of the MOF and the user
ministries in using the new application software has been introduced from November, 2001 by the project
team and is being replicated country-wide, in step with the system replication process.

         In addition the Project has also financed the costs associated with training of Treasury staff,
arranged through ADETEF, with government agencies in France, to make them familiar with the
functioning of a modern treasury. A total of 135 Treasury staff were sent to France for this training over
the last four years. Senior Treasury managers from the functional and the informatics side also visited
Hungary and Kazakhstan to see the working of the Treasury system in these countries.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

N.A.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         The institutional development impact of this project has been substantial. The necessary legal and
institutional framework required for the operation of a Treasury has been set up. The Government of
Ukraine has been able to put in place a fully functioning Treasury organization with offices at the center, in
each of the 27 oblasts and in some 650 rayons. All government financial flows relating to expenditures and
receipts have been restructured and are routed through the Treasury. Most spending unit bank accounts
have been closed and a TSA has been set up with the NBU. Associated systems and procedures
implemented under the project enable better control on the use of Government financial resources and
ensure that they are spent on items for which they had originally been approved. The system enables better
cash management and Government has a good idea of the total cash resources available to it at a given
point in time thereby enabling it to better formulate its borrowing strategy. Efficiencies in budget execution
achieved by the system, enable Government to meets its financial obligations within the stipulated
contractual time limits. A large number of staff have been trained in the use of the system.




                                                      - 9 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
         A major factor that affected project implementation related to the fact that this project was initiated
at a time when Ukraine was in the initial stages of the transition from a socialist system to a market
economy. The project was launched in a challenging environment when political consensus on the reforms
in the country was still evolving. Public finance management structures and institutions inherited from the
socialist days were not adapted to a market economy and called for far reaching institutional and policy
reforms. Even though a decision had been taken to move to a market-based economy, the specific steps
involved in the actual transition were not clear to all Government officials. Exposure of top MOF officials
to courses organized by the IMF institute in Vienna, and visits of these officials to other advanced
countries, to see the functioning of a modern Treasury were helpful in improving their understanding of
Treasury Reforms. However, it took time for all related officials to become fully conversant with the new
systems and procedures involved in the transition.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
         The introduction of the new institutional structure for budget execution envisaged under the project
would require reorganization and realignment of the roles and responsibilities of related Government
agencies, such as the MOF, the Treasury, the Central Bank, as well as the relationships with line
ministries. Change on such a magnitude is bound to experience opposition from groups who perceive this
change to be detrimental to them. These quarters were able to mount a successful opposition to the project.
Thus, spending units within Government resisted the closure of Bank accounts. The private banking sector
in the country resisted a loss of government business consequent to the closure of the SU bank accounts
and lobbied parliamentarians at the Verkhovna Rada (the Ukrainian Parliament), which refused to ratify the
project Loan or a PHRD Grant agreement under pressure from this lobby. This led to the eventual
cancellation of the PHRD grant and a delay of about 15 months in project effectiveness. It was only due to
the continuing support of the senior government policy makers in the MOF that these obstacles were
eventually overcome.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
         In the early years of the project the Treasury Department was a growing but weak institution which
suffered from frequent changes in management and had limited institutional capacity both on the functional
and technical side. Due to this, it took some time for the Treasury to understand fully the concepts and
implement activities associated with setting up a fully functioning Treasury.              These institutional
weaknesses contributed to some delay in implementation. However, these weaknesses were largely
overcome as the project got underway. In the early stages of project implementation, a controversy over the
type of application software to be used delayed project implementation. However, once this issue was
settled in accordance with the advice of the IMF and the Bank, the project implementation proceeded
smoothly and the system was extended to all oblasts and rayons within a fairly short period of two to three
years.

5.4 Costs and financing:
        The original investment cost of the project was estimated at US$26.2 million, including duties and
taxes of US$3.41 million. Out of this the Bank was supposed to finance US$16.4 million. The Loan has
been almost fully disbursed. A residual amount of US$1,197.36 has been cancelled. In addition, the
Government has contributed US$10.85 million, mainly towards procurement of computer hardware and
software. This includes an amount of US$4.66 million for the payment of duties and taxes on equipment
and software imports. Thus, the total project investment cost is about US$27.24 million, which is slightly
higher than the original estimate. This increase is due to the fact that some of the computer hardware
purchased by the Government from its own resources in the earlier years of the project had to be upgraded


                                                     - 10 -

as the project progressed and better and more effective technology became available.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
         Sustainability of the Project. Treasury reforms, including the legal framework, the organizational
arrangements, the system and procedures set up under the project have become an integral part of
government budget execution processes. A sufficient number of staff have been trained in the use of the
new systems and procedures. The Government has contributed a significant amount towards ths
implementation of the new Treasury system and appears committed to continue to allocate additional
resources to maintain the new systems. It is also planning a follow-on project to implement the second stage
of treasury reforms in Ukraine, which would ensure better use of the information available from the
Treasury system by the central MOF for budget execution purposes and the spending units for getting
better status information on their financial resources.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
         The institutions and systems set up as part of this project are now routinely used by the
Government as part of its apparatus for public finance management. The transition to regular operations
has already successfully taken place.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
         The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal phases of the project was
satisfactory. The project financed the setting up of a Treasury system, which was a crucial element of the
Government's own fiscal reform program. During these phases the Bank worked closely with the IMF and
provided advice on the design and implementation of the system based on its work on similar systems in
other CIS countries. Government officials internalized the concepts associated with setting up a Treasury
function and fully supported the design. However, both the Bank and the Borrower had underestimated
political and institutional constraints and stiff resistance was encountered from quarters whose interests
would be affected by the project. This was overcome only by the continuing high level support from the
Government for establishing a Treasury function. The project received about 58 staff-weeks for project
preparation up to supervision.

7.2 Supervision:
         The Bank's performance is assessed as satisfactory. The project received about 167 staff-weeks for
supervision. The Bank and IMF worked very closely to supervise the project. During the initial phases of
the project, progress was slow in the selection of the application software for the project due to internal
conflicts within the Treasury. However, after intensive discussions between the Treasury, the IMF, and
Bank experts, in which the Bank and the IMF assisted the Treasury in assessing options, the Treasury
came to a decision on the choice of the application software for the Treasury system and started its
implementation across all oblasts and rayons.

         During the later years of the project, the Treasury put a very competent Treasury professional in
charge of the project and assembled a team of competent consultants and staff to work on project
implementation. Another key characteristic was that the focus of project implementation moved from being
one of an IT project to a Treasury reform project.



                                                     - 11 -

        These changes, coupled with persistent Borrower commitment to project implementation, enabled
the Treasury to complete the design and development of the application software and its pilot
implementation and testing. The software was then rolled out to all oblasts and rayons after the necessary
hardware was procured through project financing.       Both the IMF advisor and the Bank were actively
involved in assessing the quality and the suitability of the prototype and in advising the Treasury on any
corrective actions required.

        Implementation picked up considerably during the last years of the project and it was able to
achieve most of its objectives. On balance, the Bank's performance during supervision can therefore be
rated as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
        In view of project outcomes and the quality of intensive supervision carried out during the project,
overall Bank performance can be assessed as satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
        The overall project design was based on IMF recommendations for Treasury systems for CIS
countries. However, as implementation commenced, the Borrower quickly assumed the leadership in
formulating and executing project activities. In particular, the Borrower internalized the basic concepts
associated with the Treasury function and, in fact, showed a strong desire to extend the scope of the
function to areas beyond those that were originally envisaged in the project, e.g., the extension of the
system to include local governments. The Bank remained involved in implementation by highlighting the
underlying requirements for pursuing this more aggressive strategy and keeping a close watch on progress
implementation.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
        The Ministry of Finance was responsible for overall project coordination, however, execution of
the project was the responsibility of the Treasury Department.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
         The implementing agency, was very responsive to the implementation needs of the project and
generally excellent cooperation was established with the task team and maintained throughout the project.
The Treasury hired a very competent team of technical consultants financed under the project who were
able to successfully design, develop, and implement the new Treasury System across all oblasts and rayons
in the country. A project-financed Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Treasury was responsible
for procurement, maintaining project accounts, and the financial management aspects of the project.
Hardware and software worth over US$14.0 million was procured through two large International
Competitive Bids (ICBs) which were carried out very smoothly.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
        The targets proposed for the project have been met. Overall performance of the Borrower can be
assessed as satisfactory.




                                                    - 12 -

8. Lessons Learned

        The Treasury System project holds some valuable lessons for the design and implementation of
technical assistance projects.

        Strong commitment and support from the highest management levels. Government
commitment to reform over the entire project duration, which has extended to seven years, has been a
critical success factor for this project. Successive Finance Ministers and Treasury managers have
recognized the importance of treasury reforms and have continued to press for progress on key policy
reforms. Initially there was resistance from some power ministries (e.g., the Ministry of Defense), who
were reluctant to give up their separate bank accounts. However, support from the Government made it
possible for the Treasury to achieve the transition.

        Design of information systems should be driven by functional rather than technical issues. In
the design of this project, attention was carefully focused on functional design issues prior to
computerization issues, to ensure effective and efficient implementation.       Functional and procedural
changes were the major drivers of the reform. The technological changes, though the most capital intensive,
were viewed as being in support of the functional reforms. A decision early in the project to invest in an
interim computer system, partly financed under the IBL, to handle core aspects of Treasury functionality
was critical in enabling the introduction of change involved in a gradual and a more manageable manner. It
enabled staff within the Treasury to become familiar with a simpler computer-based system before the full
function, more complex system was introduced. Moreover, since this system enabled the introduction of the
key functional processes for the Treasury, it made it possible to hold the end-user's attention over the
extended period required for full systems implementation.

        Bank-IMF partnership in Treasury-related operations. In this project as in several others, e.g.,
Treasury projects Kazakhstan, Hungary, etc., the partnership between the Bank and the Fiscal Affairs
Department (FAD) of the IMF in terms of delivery of coordinated policy advice, close monitoring and
follow-up has been critical for successful project implementation. The consistency and continuity in the
advice was made possible by the continued association of the same IMF Treasury advisor throughout the
major part of the project duration. This enabled the availability of good functional and technical advice to
the Borrower during the critical implementation phases. Technical members of the Bank team at appraisal
of this project were also involved with project supervision up to completion. This contributed to continuity
of advice. The requirements for the inclusion of appropriately qualified technical staff in the project team
for projects involving the implementation of a major countrywide information systems network needs to be
recognized in the Bank.

        Implementation capacity. The Government's ability to staff the project team with an extremely
competent project manager and with a dedicated team of Treasury staff was critical during the testing and
implementation phases of the new system. The Government was also able to set up a team of extremely
competent local consultants experienced in setting up complex information systems who were able to
design, develop, and implement the new Treasury system. However, low government pay scales will
continue to be a crucial impediment to attracting and retaining qualified technical staff. Increasing salaries
and a parallel move at improving the service conditions of employees within the Treasury would be
required to retain staff and ensure the longer term sustainability of the system. In the interim, the
Government may need to contract with the private sector for some technical support to ensure proper
maintenance and operation of the system as it has done during project implementation. Treasury
management recognizes this requirement.




                                                    - 13 -

         Time required for institutional building projects. The project closing date had to be extended by
two and a half years to complete the project activities. Lack of capacity within the Treasury to handle the
implementation of change associated with the new financial management system on such a wide scale has
been the main impediment to the project being completed more speedily. The time taken is not out of line
with similar projects in other countries, such as Kazakhstan, etc., where a treasury function was being set
up ab-initio. A recent study in ECA of Treasury systems in 13 countries has shown that the average time
taken for setting a basic Treasury system in these countries is between seven to nine years. The time
actually taken to introduce changes in the legal framework and organization structures,           re-engineer
functional processes, and introduce new        systems procedures on such a large scale across multiple
government agencies needs to be recognized in planning similar projects.

         Focused and well-defined program. A focused and well-defined program and a single
implementing agency are prerequisites to successful and smooth implementation. These set of conditions
were present in this Project.

         Relating technical assistance operations to policy-based lending. As mentioned above, the close
linkages between the Treasury Systems Project and the IMF's economic support program, specially in the
early years of the project, and the Bank's public sector adjustment lending (first, the PSRML and later, the
PAL programs), have been particularly useful in focusing high-level Government management attention on
the importance of achieving milestones in the Treasury project.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                                      Borrower's Evaluation Report


1.       Assessment of the Project Objectives, Design, Implementation and Operation Experience

The State Treasury of Ukraine (STU) has been developing along with the World bank during almost the
whole time of its existence. The beginning of the Project was contemporized with the period of
establishment and initial development of treasury system in Ukraine. At that time the Treasury was one of
the departments at the Ministry of Finance.

From the first year, the Treasury has undergone dynamic development, but possessed a limited institutional
capacity. This was caused by the difficulties during formation period: low technical capabilities and weak
methodological base, understaffed, overloaded by high-scaled government objectives.

Therefore, the Project objective that is the establishment of a fully functional automated treasury system as
an effective tool for budget execution and cash management accompanied by financial and technical
assistance was extremely important for STU and the budget system as a whole.

In general, the project content was built successfully. It envisaged a substantial technical assistance to
support treasury reforms and training. A resident IMF adviser on treasury issues worked at the Treasury on
the permanent basis. Moreover, the numerous WB supervisory missions monitored the course of Project
realization, amended the Project content with new assignments and addressed the current implementation
problems.




                                                     - 14 -

The improvement of the Project at the preparation stage would have been better if there was systematic
government policy from one hand and strategic development program for the Treasury system on the other
hand. Unfortunately, we had to amend and extend the Project content during its implementation, for
example, automation of accounting on treasury servicing of local budgets. However, due to reasonable
policy of the Bank we achieved the greater outputs than expected, within the available value of the Project.

2.        Project Implementation

The Project Implementation had been carried out properly. An effective link has been established between
main implementation agencies (STU, World Bank, IMF, PIU) and promoted the efficiency for project
implementation process.

Among the factors that could facilitate the Project implementation, we would like to point out the following:
experience and knowledge in design of payment systems, and WB procedures and guidelines, qualified
personnel experienced in automation of accounting procedures, certain management culture in conjunction
with experience of large-scale IT projects realization. If the Treasury had these capacities at the Project
start, this could reduce the implementation time and favored with the efficiency of the Project realization.

3.        Achievement of Project Objectives

All Projects objectives were accomplished that was confirmed by expectations of the Bank experts during
supervisory missions.

In general, STU was established as a modern public financial institution, reached full functionality and
became an effective instrument of budget control.

As far as the components are concerned:

Part A: Technical Assistance in Designing and Implementing a Treasury System

The institutional and legal framework for Treasury activities are in place.
The Treasury functionality is stabilized, including introduction of budget classification compliant with
IMF's GFS methodology and implementation of new chart of accounts. All Government payments are
routed through the Treasury, which checks for budget appropriations, cash available, commitment before
releasing the payment to be paid from the Treasury single account. A full set of fiscal reports are produced
by the Treasury.

Part B: Computer Hardware and Software

A computerized transaction Treasury Ledger Systems based on automated system for accounting of
budgets execution AS "Kazna" has been established and rolled out within the Treasury system. The
Treasury Single Account is built and legal framework on its functioning is set up.

The updated hardware platform for the Treasury has been installed on Intranet mode including
telecommunication network rayon-oblast plus oblast-center, implemented DBMS Oracle (for budget
revenues, banking part), Microsoft SQL (for budget expenditures, treasury part) as well as intrusion and
antiviral protection systems.




                                                     - 15 -

Part C: Training

During the course of the project a wide training program has been carried out.
The Treasury management and staff had the opportunity to attend workshops, conferences in international
training centers and in Ukraine in the area of budget management and treasury practices. Thus, valuable
experience and practical recommendations were gained especially in terms of treasury servicing of local
budgets.

4.       Appraisal of the Borrower's Own Work from the Standpoint of Project development and
Introduction

Fist of all, it is experience gained in area of project management. In the course of the Project the Treasury
approach to its realization was improved significantly.

In the conditions of limited institutional capacities and uncertainty in budget policy in the Project start,
approach to cooperation with the Bank was built taking into account the actual situation in budget sphere
and availability of own recourses in the Treasury.

By the second part of the Project we worked out the effective strategy that allowed predicting possible
problems, setting priorities for project measures as well as planning the Treasury activities.

Specific management culture and significant performance potential received due to experience of
cooperation with the Bank, set the positive preconditions for a follow-up joint IBRD's project.

The Treasury did its best to disburse fully and effectively the Loan proceeds.
Obviously, some lack of experience in project management in the Project beginning could have been
compensated by arrangement of workshop for the Treasury management in area of project and financial
management and procurement.

It could be reasonable to envisage to great extent attraction of national intellectual resources for fulfillment
of Project objectives. This could facilitate the development and increase of S&T capacities in Ukraine.

Our experience in ICB procurements proved that the most appropriate procedure for complex IT solutions
is 2-stage bidding with an accent on pilot projects.

Also the costs for maintenance and technical support are essential part of the procurement. This significant
amount, 10 and 20% of product costs (as charged by IT industry) should be accounted during cost
estimates of IT procurement. That also requires a bigger life cycle costs of IT procurement and should be
taken into account while Project preparation.

In our opinion, the issue of authorized support on the out-sourcing principles should be addressed to
greater extent in Ukraine.

The experience gained during the WB Project implementation made the State Treasury of Ukraine
well-known institution in the area of international project realization. We're sure that new approach to
project implementation will be valuable in cooperation with other international donors.




                                                      - 16 -

5.      Appraisal of the World Bank Work from the Standpoint of Project Development and Introduction

First of all, we would like to appreciate the excellent work of the Task Team, that provided efficient
coordination and support of the Project from the Bank side as well as constant assistance given by the Bank
Resident mission in Ukraine.

The main advantage of the Bank in terms of project implementation, to our mind, is the high degree of trust
to the Treasury as implementing agency.

The next is flexible and sustainable policy taking into account the national specifics. This allowed them to
withdraw the excessive tensions in resolving of main strategic implementation issues.

A striking example is the approval by the Bank of the Treasury decision regarding own design and
implementation of application software AS "Kazna" for Treasury information system. At that time the
Bank accepted the Treasury arguments, namely inability and unreadiness of the Treasury, in terms of
functionality and technical capacities for procurement of off-the-shelf application software. This favorable
decision turned out to be quite effective for medium-term tasks of Treasury development and allowed
financing AS "Kazna" implementation from Loan proceeds.

Some negative feature that could be mentioned was frequent introduction of new samples for IT
procurement bidding documents and usage of trial version of Standard bidding document for complex
purchases.

Relations with the Bank were very constructive. Always we felt understanding attitude of the Bank
representative to the Treasury. Besides regular supervisory missions the Bank was open to discuss critical
issues during meetings, negotiations, video-conference, etc. Project implementation unit played a key role
for successful project implementation and became an effective intermediate link between the Bank and the
Treasury.

In our opinion, more decentralization within the Bank would reduce time for concordance and approval
procedures, and would facilitate the timely project implementation. Such processes have been introduced
recently in financial management and procurement activities.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

None.




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Introduce new budget classification compliant The new budget classification system and          Use of the new budget classification system
with GFS to be introduced in FY 1998.          new Chart of Accounts were introduced in         and chart of accounts has improved the
Improvements to be made over the course of 1998.                                                quality of fiscal reporting
the project.

Develop the legal, regulatory and operational The Treasury was set up under a                   A Treasury centric budget execution system
framework to implement the Treasury            Presidential Decree in 1997 giving it the        is now in full operation enabling the
system.                                        authority to monitor budget execution. A         Government to ensure that all spending is in
                                               three-tier organization has been set up with     accordance with budget appropriations and
Establish Treasury Single account by FY        Treasury offices at the Center, at each of the warrant allocations.
1998; centralize all government payments       27 oblasts and about 650 rayons. A Treasury
through Treasury by June 1999, 70% by          single account has been established in the
June 1998.                                     National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) at the center
                                               in Kiev and at the oblast branches of the
                                               Central bank. Most spending unit bank
                                               accounts have been closed and Government
                                               finances are lodged in the Central Bank.
                                               Budget execution processes have been
                                               re-engineered and spending units route all
                                               expenditure transactions, including those
                                               related to staff salaries, through designated
                                               Treasury offices. This change has taken
                                               place gradually over the period 1997 to 2000.

Improved cash management to result in a        With the implementation of the new Treasury Implementation of the TSA system and
reduction of government cash balances with     system, most spending unit bank accounts         consolidation of Government bank accounts
the banking system to half the present         with the private banking system have been        into a TSA has eliminated idle balances in
amount after the implementation of the full    closed and a TSA was set up at the Central       spending unit bank accounts.
system.                                        Bank in Kiev. Balances in branches of the
                                               Central Bank at oblast branches are
                                               transferred each night to the TSA at the
                                               Central Bank in Kiev.

Develop methods to improve forecasting of      The new Treasury system implemented              Information available from the Treasury
expenditure requirements and cash              under the project has the capability to assist   system is used to forecast expenditures and
management.                                    in the forecasting of expenditure and cash       for cash management
                                               management.

Assess training requirements for institutional A comprehensive training program was             A sufficient number of Treasury staff have
development, and develop and implement a       initiated in parallel with the implementation of been trained in the operation and use of the
training, skills upgrading, and recruitment    the new AS KAZNA Treasury system.                system and trained Treasury staff now use
program as may be necessary- Ongoing           Documentation has been developed that            the Treasury system on a day to day basis for
throughout the project                         describes the operational procedures for         all budget execution related functions.
                                               carrying out treasury functions using the new
                                               system. A total of about 1650 staff have been
                                               trained in the use of the new system over the
                                               last three years. In addition the Treasury has
                                               developed a capacity to train new entrants
                                               and replacement staff on an ongoing basis.




                                                                    - 18 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Redesign budget classification system and    A new budget classification system based on same
develop a revised Chart of Accounts          IMF's GFS and a new Chart of Accounts
conforming with the IMF's GFS classification conforming to the new budget classification
methodology                                  was designed in 1997-98.


Develop the fiscal reporting system- start   A basic fiscal reporting capability was       same
preparing fiscal reports using the interim   established using the interim Treasury
treasury system - FY1999.                    system in 1999.


Upgrade interim system and hardware by       The Treasury first upgraded the interim       same
June 1999. Establish pilot system by June    system developed under the IBL from
2000. Install full system hardware and       Government's own resources. This was done
software by December 2001.                   in 2000. This system was then replaced by a
                                             more fully functioning Treasury system AS
                                             KAZNA in 2002. The new system has now
                                             been installed at all oblasts and rayons and
                                             is being used to process all central and local
                                             government expenditure and revenue
                                             transactions.


1End of project




                                                                - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Equipment and Software                                      22.77          25.73
Technical Assistance                                         2.59            0.97
Training                                                     0.54            0.27
Incremental Operating Costs                                  0.27            0.27

Total Baseline Cost                                         26.17          27.24
                        Total Project Costs                 26.17          27.24
                  Total Financing Required                  26.17          27.24


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          11.59             0.00         1.50         9.67         22.76
                                 (11.59)           (0.00)      (1.50)         (0.00)      (13.09)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         2.44         0.14          2.58
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.44)         (0.00)       (2.44)
4. Training                       0.00              0.00         0.54         0.00          0.54
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.54)         (0.00)       (0.54)
5. Incremental Operating          0.00              0.00         0.28         0.00          0.28
Costs                             (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.28)         (0.00)       (0.28)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
    Total                         11.59             0.00         4.76         9.81         26.16
                                 (11.59)           (0.00)      (4.76)         (0.00)      (16.35)




                                                - 20 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                14.11              0.00              0.76             10.85            25.72
                                          (14.11)            (0.00)            (0.76)            (0.00)           (14.87)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.97             0.00              0.97
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.97)            (0.00)           (0.97)
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00              0.27             0.00              0.27
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.27)            (0.00)           (0.27)
   5. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00              0.28             0.00              0.28
   Costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.28)            (0.00)           (0.28)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               14.11              0.00              2.28             10.85            27.24
                                          (14.11)            (0.00)            (2.28)            (0.00)           (16.39)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Equipment and Software        13.09         9.67                    14.88         10.85                 113.7    112.2
Technical Assistance           2.45         0.14                     0.97         0.00                  39.6      0.0
Training                       0.59         0.00                     0.27         0.00                  45.8      0.0
Incremental Operating          0.27         0.00                     0.27         0.00                  100.0     0.0
Costs




                                                          - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N.A




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              October 1996              3    TTL, Informatics Specialist, IMF
                                             FAD Economist
              March 1997                3    TTL, Informatics Specislist, IMF
                                             FAD Economist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              August, 1997              5    TTL, Informatics Specilaist,
                                             IMF FAD Economist,
                                             Procurement specialist,
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist
              December 1997             7    TTL, Informatics Specialist,
                                             IMF FAD Economist, Lawyer,
                                             Procurement Specialist, Financial
                                             Management Specialist,
                                             Disbursement Specialist

 Supervision
              09/19/1998                2    Sr Informatics Specialist (1);          S               S
                                             Sr Eonomist (1)
              10/23/1999                2    Informatics Specialist (1); Project     U               S
                                             Officer (1)
              05/15/2000                3    TTL and Informatics Spec. (1);          S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Disbursement Analyst (1)
              10/21/2000                3    TTL and Informatics Spec. (1);          S               S
                                             Proc Staff (1); Disb Staff (1)
              06/02/2001                4    TTL and Informatics Spec. (1);          S               S
                                             Proc Spec (1); Disb Analyst (1);
                                             IMF Advisor Designate (1)
              12/01/2001                2    TTL and Informatics (1); Lead           S               S
                                             Economist (1)
              03/05/2002                2    TTL/Informatics (1); IMF-FAD            S               S
                                             Economist (1)
              10/17/2002                3    TTL and Informatics Spec. (1);          S               S
                                             Proc Staff (1); Disb Staff (1);
              06/20/2003                3    TTL and Informatics Spec. (1);          S               S
                                             Proc Staff (1); Disb Staff (1);


 ICR
              10/15/2004                3     TTL/ Informatics Spec. (1);            S               S
                                              Proc Staff (1); Disb Staff (1)




                                              - 23 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               18                       39800
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    40                       66820
  Supervision                            167                       469000
  ICR                                       8                       20000
  Total                                  233                       595620




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal report, Technical Annex No: T-7184-UA
Bank Mission Back to Office Reports and aide Memoires from 1997- 2004




                                                - 27 -

- 28 -

