Document of                        n
The World Bank O                     Cle-Tv"kY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2155b-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
ARGENTINA
March 14, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aythorization.



Currency Equivalents
I Argentine Peso ($a)   =  US$ .0025
US$1.00   =  $a 400
$a I million = US$2,500
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Units of Weight and Measures: Metric
I kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton = 2,205 pounds
Abbreviations
AGP      Administracion General de Puertos
DNCPVN   Direccion Nacional de Construcciones Portuarias y Vias Navegables
ELMA     Empresa Lineas Maritimas Argentinas
FA       Ferrocarriles Argentinos (Argentine Railways)
FF       Flota Fluvial del Estado Argentino
FONIT    Fondo Nacional de Infraestructura del Transporte
JNG      Junta Nacional de Granos
NTP      National Transport Plan
SEIM     Secretaria de Estado de Intereses Maritimos
SST      Subsecretaria de Transporte
STPO     Sectoral Transport Planning Office
VN       Vialidad Nacional
YPF      Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ..................................                           1
A.    General ..........................................                          1
B.    Railways            .........................................               2
C.    Roads  ...............  **....         *.......................             2
D.    Ports             ............................................              3
E.    Inland Waterways  . ........................ .. ......                      3
F.    Sea Transport  ....            ... .    ............................        4
G.    Air Transport                    ..........................                 4
R.    Pipelines  ........................................                         4
I.    Urban Transport in Buenos Aires                   ..................        5
J.    Planning and Coordination .....               ...................           6
II.    THE RAILWAY SUBSECTOR  .................................                           6
A. Background ..............-.                                                    6
B.    Redimensioning  . .............. .O..-. . . .  .................  .         7
C.    FA Organization  .......................................                    9
D.    Management,  Staff and Training  .................             ..          10
E.    Railway Facilities  ...............................                        11
F.    Traffic ..............  .........................................          14
G.    Intermodal Freight Competition                 ...................         18
H.    Operations  .......          ................................              21
I.    Commercial Department ...............            .......       ..          21
J.    Tariff and Costs  ......            ...........................            22
K.    Budgets, Accounting and Audit  .................              ...          23
III.    THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT  ...................                          25
A.    FA's Investment Plan  (1979-1983)  ................             .          25
B.    The Project and the Proposed Loar  ....... .. .......                      26
C.    Main Project Items  .....            ..........................            27
D.    Cost Estimates  ......         ...........................                 28
E.  Financing Plan                    .. . ............                          29
F.    Project Implementation .....             ......................            30
G.    Plan of Action               ...................................           30
H.    Procurement  ........         ...............................              32
I.    Disbursements  .......          .............................              32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Argentina in January-February 1978 and a followup mission in May 1978.
The mission comprised Messrs. M. Lal and E. Karman, Deputy Division Chief
(railway engineers), H. Jones (financial analyst), M. Staab (transport
economist), and J. Kesson (consultant). The report has been edited by
Miss V. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ......       .............................     33
A.   General Methodology ..............................           33
B.   Economic Benefits and Costs ......................           33
C.   Economic Rates of Return .........................           34
D.   Sensitivity Analysis and Risks ....        ...............   34
V.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION ..................................            35
A.   General ..........................................           35
B.   Past Financial Performance .......................           36
C.   Forecast Financial Performance ....        ...............   39
D.   Pricing and Subsidy Policies .....................           44
E.   Sensitivity Analysis .............................           45
-F.   Conclusion .......................................            47
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ...........    .....        47
TABLES
1.1 -  Modal Composition of Traffic .49
2.1 -  Route and Track Data .50
2.2  -    Motive Power and Rolling Stock.                              51
2.3  -    Steam Locomotive Scrapping Program .52
2.4  -    Diesel Locomotive Requirements .53
2.5  -    Age of Freight Wagons                                        54
2.6  -    Freight Wagon Scrapping Program                              55
2.7  -    Freight Traffic Statistics (2 pages) .56-57
2.8  -    Freight Traffic Forecasts  (2 pages) .58-59
2.9  -    Forecasts of National Production of Commodities
Used to Forecast Freight Traffic .60
2.10 -  Intercity Passenger Traffic .61
2.11 -  Suburban Passenger Traffic .62
2.12 -    Summary of Operating Statistics .63
2.13 -    1977 Operating Statistics by Gauge .64
3.1  -    Investment Plan (1979-1983) .65
3.2  -    Investment Plan and Project (2 pages) .66-67
3.3 -  Project and Bank Loan .68
3.4  -    List of Goods for Bank Financing .............. -             69
3.5  -    Project Implementation Schedule .70
3.6 -  Procurement Schedule .71
3.7  -    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .72
4.1  -    Economic Evaluation (5 pages) .73-77
4.2  -    Economic Rates of Return .........................            78



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)         (iii)
Page No.
TABLES (Continued)
5.1  -    Summary Cash Flow Statements - 1974-1977 ............    79
5.2  -    Income and Expense Statements -
Actual 1974 to 1977 (pesos) ............... .......    80
5.3  -    Income and Expense Statements - Actual 1974 to 1977,
Forecast 1978 to 1983 (US$ equivalent)  ....81
5.4  -    1976 Revenues and Costs by Service ...........82
5.5  -    Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1971 to 1977 ......    83
5.6  -    Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1973 to 1976,
1977 Estimated and 1978 to 1982 Forecast ..........    84
5.7  -    Analysis of Operating Results by Gauge 1979-1982.....    85
5.8  -    Forecast 1980 Operating Results by Railway Service ..    86
5.9  -    Forecast Cash Flow 1978-1982 ............87
ANNEXES
1     Technical Assistance and Studies ....... .      ..................    88
2.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.    91
CHARTS
1.    Organization of FA
2.    Organization of Component Railways of FA
MAPS
IBRD 13699 - Argentina - Argentine Railways
IBRD 13700 - Argentina - Argentine Railways
Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Argentina is characterized by a very high degree of population and
economic concentration in and around Buenos Aires and by a high level of
specialization of production among its various geographical regions. About
70% of the country's 26 million inhabitants live within a 600-km radius of
Buenos Aires; this region also generates almost 85% of the country's GNP. The
transport system reflects this spatial pattern of development. The bulk of
freight generated by the economy consists of agricultural products and other
raw materials moving from the interior to the lower Parana River and the
Atlantic coast around Buenos Aires, 1/ and of machinery and other production
inputs, vehicles and manufactured consumer goods moving in the opposite
direction. With its population of about 10 million, a port handling more than
one-quarter of total port traffic and its role as administrative, industrial,
financial and commercial center of the country, metropolitan Buenos Aires is
the focal point for transport in Argentina. The La Plata-Buenos Aires-Rosario-
Santa Fe-Cordoba corridor generates the main intercity passenger traffic
demands. Trade among the country's various specialized regions continues to
increase, but is comparatively less important. A Government estimate of the
modal composition of traffic for 1976 is summarized below:
Water
Total       Road  Transport  Pipelines   Rail   Air
(billions)     (%)      (%)         (%)        (%)   (%)
Ton-km         102.2        42        35          12         11     -
Inter-city
pass-km      64.1         86         -           -        10      4
1.02      Traffic decreases were experienced by almost all modes of transport
during the early 1970s, including roads (between 1973 and 1975), railways,
coastal shipping and ports, generally reflecting the effects of changes in
the international oil market and the overall condition of the Argentine
economy during this period. River transport remained relatively constant,
pipeline traffic (oil and gas) continued to increase (5.3% per annum) and
domestic air traffic grew substantially (12% per annum). Traffic is now
increasing in all modes (Table 1.1).
1/   Livestock and grains from the provinces of Buenos Aires, Cordoba, Entre
Rios, La Pampa and Santa Fe; wine and edible oil from the region of
Mendoza, San Juan and San Luis; mutton and wool from the region of
Patagonia; tea from the province of Misiones; cotton from the Chaco
region; sugar from the region of Tucuman and Salta; zinc, lead, sulphur
and manganese from the Northwest; and petroleum from the Northwest,
Central West and South.



- 2 -
1.03      The distribution of investment among the modes has remained rela-
tively constant in the last few years with roads acounting for about 56%,
railways 16%, ports 11%, aviation 9%, water transport 7%, and subways 1%.
Total investment in the transport sector has accounted for about 20% of total
public investment and for some 3% of GNP. These are rough approximations, but
they do suggest that the claims of the transport sector on national resources
have been quite substantial in the last several years. Furthermore, not only
have such expenditures accounted for a large proportion of total public
investment, but ithey have not always been used to the best advantage. The
National Transport Plan, now under preparation (para 1.18), is expected to
improve coordinal:ion within and among the modes and thereby lead to a more
efficient use of resources.
B.   Railways
1.04      The ra:ilway subsector is reviewed in detail in Chapter II.
C.   Roads
1.05      The road network expanded very rapidly in the 1960s and early 1970s
with the construction of modern, limited-access multi-lane facilities at the
entrances to the main urban centers and along a few of the most heavily
traveled routes. In 1976, Argentina had a system of about one million km of
roads (national and provincial), of which about 50% of the national network
and 2% of the provincial network were paved, totaling about 42,000 km. Except
for some peripheral areas, the present road system is generally adequate,
although there are mounting requirements for rehabilitation and strengthening
of existing roads. The numerous interruptions of the road network and the
lack of lateral links which earlier hampered coinmunications and transport
between urban centers have been largely corrected in recent years by the
expansion of the primary and secondary networks,
1.06      The road vehicle fleet increased from 1.0 million vehicles in 1961
to 3.4 million vehicles in 1976, an average annual growth of 8%. The vehicle-
population ratio of about one vehicle per eight inhabitants, approximately the
level of motorization of Southern Europe, corresponds to the country's rela-
tively high per capita income (US$1,550 in 1976) and advanced development
of the automobile industry. The geographical distribution of the vehicle
fleet is similar to the distribution of economic activity: 60% of the fleet
is registered in the Federal Capital and Buenos Aires Province and another 25%
in the provinces of Santa Fe, Cordoba, Corrientes and Mendoza. The actual
supply of trucking services has increased faster than the vehicle numbers
would indicate because of a shift to larger size trucks. Truck transport is
used for long ancl short hauls and for practically all commodities. Freight
rates are low because of the generally flat terrain allowing the use of heavy
truck trailers with a low power-to-weight ratio. Trucking rates are not
regulated by the Government. The average age of the trucking fleet has been
estimated by the Government at slightly over seven years. Both urban and
inter-urban bus services, which are provided by private companies, are
regulated. In general, these services are quite adequate.



-3-
D.   Ports
1.07      Argentina's ports can be classified into three geographic zones:
(a) the Atlantic, whose main ports are Bahia Blanca, Comodoro
Rivadavia and Quequen;
(b) the Plata River, whose main ports are Buenos Aires and La Plata;
and
(c) the Parana River, whose main ports are San Nicolas, Campana,
Rosario, San Lorenzo and Santa Fe.
These ten ports handled about 76% of the total traffic in 1976 (78.6 million
tons), with Buenos Aires accounting for the largest share (27%). Most of the
river ports are affected by silting and require costly maintenance dredging.
The main ports are somewhat specialized, handling general cargo (Buenos
Aires), mineral and petroleum products (Comodoro Rivadavia, La Plata, San
Nicolas, San Lorenzo and Santa Fe), and grain products (Bahia Blanca, Quequen,
Rosario, Santa Fe). Roughly 60% of the total tonnage handled in ports is
domestic waterborne bulk traffic--essentially petroleum products, gravel and
sand. A serious problem is the cumbersome and inefficient way in which the
ports are managed, basically resulting from too many organizations having
control of the several port operations without proper coordination. For
example, while port management is entrusted to the Administracion General de
Puertos (AGP), an autonomous enterprise under the Secretaria de Estado de
Intereses Maritimos (SEIM), all dredging and marine construction are the
responsibility of another department under SEIM, the Direccion Nacional de
Construcciones Portuarias y Vias Navegables (DNCPVN). The construction or
expansion of buildings and warehouses is the responsibility of the Direccion
de Arquitectura under the Secretaria de Obras Publicas y Transporte. In
addition, in all major ports handling grains, there is an area reserved for
the Junta Nacional de Granos (JNG), under the Secretaria de Estado de Agri-
cultura. JNG owns and operates all grain silos, operates and unloads trains
within its territory and controls the arrival and departure of-ships to the
grain berths. Also, private stevedoring companies control and direct the
loading and unloading gangs, and, in some ports, private shipping companies, by
virtue of their long standing rental contracts, operate sheds and warehouses.
The lack of coordination with respect to all these different organizations is
probably the single most serious bottleneck in the port subsector today. A
study of operations and management as well as physical facility requirements
at Bahia Blanca, Rosario, San Nicolas, San Pedro, Buenos Aires and La Plata is
presently under way with UNDP finance, with the Bank serving as executing
agency. In addition, under the grain storage project (Loan 1521-AR), the Bank
is financing a study to determine the feasibility of deepening the channel at
Bahia Blanca.
E.   Inland Waterways
1.08      The Plata River and its tributaries--the Parana, Uruguay, Paraguay
and Alto Parana Rivers--form a navigable system of more than 3,000 km. The
tributaries, particularly the Parana River, constitute an important outlet



- 4 -
for cereals and other exports and carry about 40% of the country's total grain
exports.  The depths of the rivers limit the draft of ships entering the
system and, hence, exclude the larger bulk carriers or restrict their loading
capacity. Insufficient and inadequate dredging equipment continues to be a
problem. A recent Spanish bilateral credit for dredges should help to resolve
this matter.
1.09      In the river trade, the largest Argentine carrier is the state-owned
Flota Fluvial del Estado Argentino (FF), which provides freight and passenger
services along the Parana, Paraguay and Uruguay Rivers, passenger services
between Montevideo and Buenos Aires, and ferry services across all these
rivers, including a special service between Colonia (Uruguay) and Buenos Aires.
It also owns and operates tug boats in the main ports. FF showed a profit in
1976.
F.   Sea Transport
1.10      The Argenatine merchant marine fleet consists of 66 state-owned
vessels with a total of 479,000 DWT and an average age of 15 years. Within
the state fleet, the largest owners are the Empresa Lineas Maritimas Argentinas
(ELMA), a state enterprise which owns and operates 34 ships, and Yacimientos
Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF), which owns and operates 26 ships for the hauling
of crude oil. The total participation of Argentine vessels in foreign trade
was 31% in 1974, of which ELMA accounted for 19%. The Government's objective
is to obtain 50% for Argentine vessels.
G.   Air Transport
1.11      Argentina's extensive area and the considerable distances separating
a number of its population and commercial centers have made civil air transport
an important element in the country's transport system.  Airport infrastruc-
ture is highly developed, with modern runways and terminals in all major urban
centers. There are around 1,500 airports and airstrips of all standards, of
which about 90 are open to commercial aviation. There is some overdesign of
airport facilities., particularly along the Parana River where pairs of large,
modern airports have been built at cities separated only by the river. Such
is the case of Resistencia and Corrientes and Santa Fe and Parana. The air
transport industry has enjoyed relatively steady growth for a number of years.
The Government-owned, and financially profitable, Aerolineas Argentinas
provides internal and international services. The privately owned Austral and
Aero-Chaco provide national and regional services respectively. LADE, the
development airline owned and operated by the Air Force, provides subsidized
services to the southern part of the country.
H.   Pipelines
1.12      Pipelines account for the bulk of crude oil and practically the
total of gas transport in the country. There are about 6,100 km of oil pipe-
lines and about 10.900 km of gas pipelines in the trunk system. The oil pipe-
lines connect the oil fields and refineries in the North, Central West and
Southwest to the main urban centers. Pipelines also connect the refinery at
La Plata with Buenos Aires. Oil from the fields in the South is transported



-5-
by ship to the main refineries near Buenos Aires. The vast network of gas
pipelines may be classified into four systems: (a) the Northern system, which
brings gas from Bolivia and the Argentine fields near the Bolivian border to
the urban centers along its route to Buenos Aires; (b) the Central Western
system, used only for local distribution to Mendoza; and (c) the Southeastern
and (d) the Southern systems, which are interconnected and bring the production
from fields in Neuquen, Comodoro Rivadavia and Tierra del Fuego to Bahia
Blanca and Buenos Aires. There are no plans to expand the network of pipelines
for oil products at present. There are, however, plans to expand the network
of pipelines for gas, mainly to interconnect the various sytems in the near
future. YPF and Gas del Estado, two Government enterprises, own and operate
the oil and gas pipelines respectively.
I.   Urban Transport in Buenos Aires
1.13      The Buenos Aires metropolitan region has several corridors of urban
development that extend westward for approximately 60 km from the center
of the city, with most of the urban development contained within a 25-km wide
band (Map IBRD 13700). There are 25 suburban municipalities surrounding the
Federal Capital. The population of the area is about 10 million, accounting
for 38% of the total population. Population growth in the region, some 2.4%
per year, is low compared to the growth rates of other Latin American cities,
but is 50% higher than the national growth rate of 1.6% per annum.
1.14      An important characteristic of the transport situation in the Buenos
Aires metropolitan region is the extensive use made of public transit services
and the correspondingly small proportion of trips by private automobiles. Of
an estimated 14 million daily passenger trips in vehicles in 1977 (in which
changes in mode are counted as separate trips), 23% were accounted for by
automobiles, 56% by buses, 8% by the suburban railway, 5% by the subway, and
8% by taxi. While the ratio of passenger trips in public vehicles to total
passenger trips in vehicles has decreased in the last few years (from 83% in
1969 to about 77% in 1977), due in part to the lack of coordination of planning
among the different modes (para 1.15 following), it is still quite high
compared with many other countries.  Preventing any further decline in this
ratio is probably the most important challenge facing urban transport planners
today.  The extent to which this can be accomplished will essentially depend
on how successful Buenos Aires is in coordinating the routes, schedules and
fares for the various public modes of transport as well as the specific
measures taken to discourage the use of private automobiles in the downtown
area. Generally, in terms of physical facilities, Buenos Aires has a good
public transportation system for today's needs. The suburban railway service,
however, could be improved and more passengers carried (paras 2.38-2.40). The
coverage of the bus system is quite good. The system is privately owned and
operated with minimum Government regulation. The subway is Government-owned
and receives large annual operating subsidies.
1.15      The institutional and organizational structures for transport
planning and coordination in the metropolitan region have been seriously
neglected to date; there is no agency responsible for the overall coordination
of transport planning. A 1972/73 preliminary study of transport in the
metropolitan region recommended the creation of such an organization as well
as the separation of the suburban railway from Ferrocarriles Argentinos
(FA) and the creation of a new company which would eventually merge with



-6-
the subway. The possibility of separating the suburban railway from FA and
creating a new company will be examined in a st:udy of the suburban rail
service which is included in the project (Annex 1).
J.   Planning and Coordination
1.16      Planning and coordination have traditionally been among the weakest
aspects of Argentina's transport sector. in the past, the considerable degree
of independence of the largest Government agencies, such as Vialidad Nacional
(roads) and FA (railways), and the loose Goverrment control in the water and
air transport subsectors made it very difficult to have integrated and con-
sistent transport plans and policies. Several attempts have been made to
improve this situation, including the creation of a Sectoral Transport Planning
Office (STPO) in 1968. However, its staff members could seldom have their
points of view accepted by the numerous and sometimes more powerful transport
agencies.
1.17      With the new Government-of March 1976, STPO has recruited new capable
staff and strengthened its position vis-a-vis the agencies. Nevertheless,
coordination in the sector is still hampered by the fact that the management
of several of the modes is divided among a number of Secretariats within the
Ministry of Economy (roads and railways come under the Secretariat of Public
Works and Transport, ports and waterborne transport under the Secretariat
of Maritime Affairs and pipelines under the Secretariat of Energy), and air
transport is totally outside the Ministry, being managed by the Air Force.
1.18      In 1977, because of the need for better planning and coordination
in the transport sector, the Bank, at the request of the Argentine Government,
included financing for a National Transport Plan (NTP) under the Fourth High-
way Project. The NTP could become the vehicle by which all transport agencies
are brought together under one integrated structure. Work on the NTP started
in early 1979, and the study part should be finished by the end of 1981.
II. THE RAILWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   Background
2.01      During the half century preceding the first World War, the railways
played a crucial role in the economic growth of the country by opening up new
areas to development and providing the only transport link between primary
production areas and the main ports. Shortly thereafter, however, their rela-
tive importance ,declined steadily with the growth in road, coastal shipping,
river and pipeline transport. In 1946, the Government purchased the 12 private
railway companies and combined them with six owned by the Federal Government
and one by the Province of Buenos Aires, creating one railway organization
which was called Ferrocarriles Argentinos (FA). The railway network, consist-
ing at that time of 44,000 km, was organized into six systems: four with
broad gauge (BG), one with standard gauge (SG) and one with narrow gauge (NG).
However, the Government failed to create a fully unified organization or to
discontinue services which could no longer be p'rovided economically because of
changed settlement patterns, the new distribution of economic activity and the



- 7 -
growth of other transport modes. Railway traffic declined from 16.5 billion
ton-km and 32.8 million tons in 1951 to 14.2 billion ton-km and 22.1 million
tons in 1970. FA experienced severe financial deficits combined with low
productivity and poor services.
2.02      In 1970, the Government and FA adopted a plan to redimension the
railway and to concentrate on traffic which the railway could carry more
economically than other modes. The Bank helped to finance this plan under
Loan 733-AR. By February 1974, it was apparent that little or no improvement
had been achieved in FA's physical and financial condition during 1972 and
1973 and that performance was well below the established targets. No line
closures had occurred, workshop consolidation had not begun, staff strength
was not reduced, locomotive availability had not improved and the railway was
showing an operating ratio above 200. In April 1974, the Bank offered the
Government and FA one of two alternatives: (a) to renegotiate the loan on the
basis of new targets and specific actions to be taken by the Government and
FA; or (b) to cancel the balance of the loan. The Government and FA chose the
latter. The situation continued to deteriorate through early 1976. Over the
period 1973-1976, FA employees increased from about 142,000 to about 158,000,
and traffic continued to decline. While the initial decline in traffic was
largely due to competition from other modes of transport (principally road),
the lack of railway capacity, caused mainly by poor availability of locomotives
and rolling stock, has been a significant contributing factor.
B.   Redimensioning
2.03      Redimensioning the railway to make its scale, operations and manage-
ment better suited and more responsive to modern conditions has been discussed
by numerous Government administrations for the last 20 years.  However, only
in the last two years has any significant and concerted action been taken.
Since the new Government assumed power in March 1976, 5,656 km of track have
been closed (66% of which is planned for removal as well), reducing total
route-km from 39,779 to 34,123 (Map IBRD 13699); 374 stations on other lines
have been closed; uneconomic intercity passenger train services have been cut,
reducing intercity passenger train-km from 32.8 million to 18 million, a decrease
of 45%; and staff has been reduced from 156,000 to 117,000, a decrease of 25%.
2.04      By any standards, these changes, compressed within such a short
period of time, are impressive and represent the determination with which the
present Government has sought to reform the railway. For this reason, more
than any other, the Bank has considered new lending operations for the railway.
However, FA started from a particularly bad position and, while significant
steps in the right direction have been taken, much more needs to be done.
Even with the reduction of 5,656 km of line, about 50% of the remaining system
still carries only about 25% of the traffic; intercity passenger traffic
densities on many lines, which are paralleled by good roads, are well below
economic levels, leaving considerable room for further reduction of service;
workshops need to be consolidated; and the staff strength of 117,000 is still
excessively high (although there are some shortages in certain key operating
areas). The railway remains divided into six separately administered lines,
which adversely affects operations. FA's management and the Argentine
Government are aware of these problems and are committed to their resolution
through further action as discussed below.



- 8 -
2.05      The Government, under the direction of the Subsecretaria de
Transporte (SST), has agreed to undertake a study of uneconomic lines
and stations, the foreign exchange cost of which is to be financed under
the proposed loan. The implementation schedule and cost of this study are
shown in Annex 1. The Government agreed during negotiations to furnish to
the Bank, by June 30, 1980, a schedule for carrying out the recommendations
of the study, including a system of compensation for those uneconomic lines
and stations which would continue in operation (para 3.15). The uneconomic
lines study is intended to supplement work done by the railway, which, by
the end of 1978, studied some 21,430 km of line,of which about 9,159 km have
been recommended by the railway for closure. The railway's studies are
based essentially on financial analysis (revenues and costs from the stand-
point of the enterprise) and focus on the most conspicuous cases for aban-
donment where traffic levels are extremely low and show little promise of
growth. To date, this approach has been adequate and has yielded useful
results. The purpose of the study to be directed by SST is to introduce
economic analysis and to include some of the less obvious cases not yet
covered by the railway's studies. The Government has agreed to the following
minimum program for line closures which has been incorporated into the Plan
of Action (para 3.14) pending the results of the study, at which time the
Bank and the Government will have to agree on a. revision of the Plan of
Action:
Lines to be closed       System route-km
(end of year)          (end of year)
1976                       -                     39,779
1977                   5,000                     34,779
1978                     856                     33,923
1979                   3,644                     30,279
1980                   1,500                     28,779
1981                     500                     28,279
1982                     500                     27,779
12,000
2.06      The Government, under the direction of SST, has also agreed to under-
take a study of intercity passenger services, the foreign exchange cost of
which is to be financed under the proposed loan.  The implementation schedule
and c:ost of this study are shown in Annex 1. The Government agreed during
negotiations to furnish to the Bank by April 30, 1980 a schedule for carrying
out the recommendations of the study, including a system of compensation for
those uneconomic services which would continue to be provided (para 3.15). As
a minimum commitment, the Government has agreed (see Plan of Action, para
3.14) to reduce intercity passenger train-km from 18 million in 1978 to 16
million in 1980 and to hold this level of service constant over the remainder
of the plan period pending the results of the study, at which time a final



program will have to be drawn up. The important role to be played by SST in
these studies will ensure adequate coordination, as appropriate, with the NTP
(para 1.18). The possibilities for consolidating workshops will also be
examined in a study to be financed under the proposed loan (Annex 1). FA
agreed during negotiations to furnish to the Bank, by September 30, 1980, a
workshop rationalization program that takes into account the long term needs
of the railway (paras 2.25 and 3.15).
2.07      A study of future staff needs and salary levels will also be
financed under the proposed loan. The implementation schedule and cost of
this study are shown in Annex 1. Pending the results of this study, FA
plans to reduce staff from about 117,000 to 105,000 at the end of 1982. FA
agreed during negotiations to furnish to the Bank, by December 31, 1980, a
final manpower plan based on the findings of the study (para 3.15). The
manpower targets set out in the Plan of Action (para 3.14) would at that
time be revised accordingly.
2.08      The foregoing redimensioning program should contribute significantly
toward achieving the project's overall objective of putting FA firmly on the
path of becoming a financially viable enterprise. It should be recognized,
however, that, given the present situation, it would be unrealistic and
perhaps even counter-productive, by setting unattainable goals, to expect FA
to achieve full financial viability by the end of the railway's current plan
period (1979-1983). The proposed project (Chapter III) and redimensioning
program have been designed so that full financial viability could be achieved
with reasonable likelihood within the succeeding plan period. It is in this
longer term perspective that the Bank's proposed participation in the project
should be seen.
C.   FA Organization
2.09      FA is a state enterprise under the supervision of SST.  It is
responsible for the operation of the railway and has authority to approve its
internal organization and regulate its affairs. As prescribed by its charter,
FA is expected to operate along commercial lines. However, the Government
exercises a considerable degree of control over FA in its review of its invest-
ment plans, tariff levels, annual operating and capital budgets, and financial
statements. Government policy toward FA has been a key factor in determining
tariff levels, staff numbers and salaries, investment levels (and the costs of
items procured from local industry), funds available for maintenance and the
rate at which uneconomic lines and services have been eliminated. The present
Government has exercised this responsibility with generally beneficial effects
in the areas of staff reductions, line closures, phasing out of uneconomic
services and tariff increases. On the other hand, it has failed to approve
adequate budget allocations for permanent way and rolling stock maintenance,
and it is currently requiring FA to borrow to finance a share of its operating
deficits, which is detrimental to FA's longer term financial prospects. These
matters were discussed during loan negotiations, and a coordinated plan was
prepared, not only for the redimensioning process but also for maintenance
(para 2.60). FA also agreed not to incur any debt to finance its operating
expenses (para 5.21). Once the basic redimensioning process is completed,
rehabilitation is well advanced and an appropriate subsidy policy is introduced
(para 5.23), the Government should permit FA to have greater autonomy. This



- 10 -
is a matter, however, which will have to be pursued by the Bank in possible
future lending operations. Assuming that satisfactory progress is made in the
proposed loan, a second operation to finance projects beginning in the years
1981/82 of FA's investment plan would be appropriate to continue the BanK's
participation in the long-term rehabilitation process.
2.10      The organization of FA is shown in Charts 1 and 2.  Day-to-day
operations are the responsibility of the General Managers of the six railways
which constitute FA. 1/ Overall planning, operating norms, inter-railway
coordination and policy matters are handled in the headquarters office in
Buenos Aires. The proposed loan includes provision for technical assistance
to help strengthen the planning capacity of FA's Planning Department which,
although competent in engineering fields, is weak: in project evaluation and
financial analysis (Annex 1).
2.11      In the early 1970s, FA attempted to reorganize by reducing the
number of separate railway administrations from six to four (two broad gauge
subsystems, one standard gauge subsystem, and one narrow gauge subsystem), by
centralizing accounting and financial management, and by reorganizing the
commercial department. However, because of opposition from the railway unions
and the individual lines as well as an apparent lack of resolve by the
Government at that time, this process was largely halted and, in some areas
(e.g., accounting), even reversed. The process has now been renewed in
traffic management, shop centralization, the commercial department and in
accounting and financial management (paras 2.60 to 2.65).
D.   Management, Staff and Training
2.12      The management of FA is the responsibility of the President, a Board
of Directors and an Executive Vice President, all of whom are appointed by the
Government. Military personnel continue to occupy a number of the senior
administrative positions, while senior technical posts are held by civilians.
The management is generally competent in technical fields, but its experience
in business and commercial areas is weak, owing largely to the neglect of
these matters in the past. Because of low salaries in comparison to other
enterprises, there is a shortage of middle management and technical staff.
However, FA has recently increased salaries for management personnel by con-
centrating wage increases among those in the higher positions, and it plans
to continue this practice.
2.13      The number of staff has varied widely over the years - 219,000 in
1956, 171,000 in 1966, 138,000 in 1973 - increasinrg again to 157,000 in early
1976 and being reduced to some 117,000 in 1978. About half the reductions
since 1976 have been made possible by laws requiring early retirement in some
categories and the dismissal of so-called troublesome personnel and those
with physical and mental disabilities. The other half of the reductions
1/   The six lines are the Roca, San Martin, Mitre and Sarmiento (broad
gauge), the Urquiza (standard gauge) and the Belgrano (narrow gauge).



- 11 -
occurred for reasons of death, normal retirement and voluntary separation to
seek higher pay in other jobs outside the railway. It is proposed to reduce
the staff further, gradually, to achieve the target of 105,000 by the end of
1982 through normal attrition. This goal should be possible by further
rationalization of train operations, stations, yards, and shops and the
closure of uneconomic lines.
2.14      The rapid reduction in numbers has caused shortages in some areas,
especially in permanent way gangs on the Roca and Sarmiento lines (there is
a surplus on the Belgrano) and in certain key areas such as skilled shop
mechanics, engineers and computer specialists. FA is authorized to recruit
certain key staff, but emphasis is first being placed on the transfer of
staff from areas of geographical surplus to those where there are shortages.
This transfer is difficult to achieve because of the lack of housing and the
competition from other higher paying jobs in areas where deficiencies
exist.
2.15      FA proposes to start recruiting key staff in 1979 and to embark on
a program of recruiting apprentices to improve the age structure of its
personnel. FA's personnel and training organizations were reviewed during
project preparation and found to be well manned and equipped to handle
recruitment, training of new staff and retraining of staff redeployed
because of rationalization programs.
2.16      FA clearly needs time to solve the problems created by the large
staff reductions of the last two years and to define its future manpower
requirements. A study (Annex 1) to be financed by the proposed loan will
address this problem and help to define an appropriate salary policy and
standards for manning low density lines. Until this study is completed and
its conclusions are reviewed, the Government proposes that FA's total wage and
benefits bill be kept constant in real terms by proportionate reductions in
staff. Staff salaries decreased by about 38% in real terms between 1975 and
1977. They were increased by about 25% in 1978 over 1977, and further planned
increases will help to restore an additional 10% by 1982. These increases
should help to improve the situation until FA adopts an appropriate manpower
and salary policy as a result of the planned study.
E.   Railway Facilities
(i) Track
2.17      Route-km total 34,123, distributed among three gauges as follows:
20,656 km of broad gauge (1.676 m), 10,694 km of narrow gauge (1.000 m) and
2,773 km of standard gauge (1.435 m). More detailed route and track data are
given in Table 2.1. The suburban system in Buenos Aires accounts for 570 km,
of which two broad gauge lines (Sarmiento and Mitre) and the one standard
gauge line are electrified. Except in the Buenos Aires suburban system where
there is double and - in some cases - quadruple track, most of the lines are
single track, with favorable alignment characteristics. Nearly 90% of the
track is straight with low gradients. The mountainous sections are compara-
tively small and of minor importance from the point of view of traffic. Since



- 12 -
the FA system grew out of 19 different railways, the rails are of many varying
types in terms of profile and weight, ranging from 29 to 50 kg/m. Welded rail
(30-36 m) exists on about 20% of FA's track length. Ties are predominantly
timber (quebracho) of very high quality.
2.18      Because of insufficient renewals over many years, some 40% of the
track on the main lines is over 40 years old. Many of the bridges are in poor
condition, and several of them cannot support diesel locomotives without
serious speed restrictions. The ballast situation is generally very poor,
and, on most lines, the track is laid over a compacted earth bed or over a
mixture of gravel and earth, leading to poor drainage and weight distribution.
Only about 8,000 km of main line track and about 2,000 km of the complementary
network are provided with broken stone ballast, often of limited thickness
and poor quality. Rail fractures and derailments due to rail and foundation
defects are frequenit.
2.19      The project includes the complete renewal of 1,142 km of track plus
partial renewal of 6545 km with the replacement of only some track components.
In addition, several bridges will be strengthened, mainly on the trunk lines
which are to be rehabilitated. The project also includes some light machinery
for track maintenance.
(ii) Motive Power and Rolling Stock
2.20      FA's motive power and rolling stock fleet is shown in Table 2.2.
The fleet, as of January 1978, consisted of 1,171 diesel locomotives of 22
different types, 681 steam locomotives, 57,351 wagons of various types in-
cluding cabooses, 474 diesel rail cars, 653 electric coaches and 3,652
passenger coaches.
2.21      Steam locomotives are used mainly as shunters in the yards and on
some trains in sections which cannot support the heavier diesel locomotives.
FA plans to scrap the steam locomotives by eliminating them from train oper-
ation by 1980 and from the yards by 1982 (Table 2.3).
2.22      The average availability of diesel locomotives is about 63%.  Such
poor performance is due in large part to a chronic shortage of spare parts and
to the multiplicity of types of locomotives, which makes maintenance and
procurement of spares difficult. The problem of importing spare parts has
been largely alleviated by a recent Government decree which allows FA to
import up to US$100 million worth of spare parts in three years despite the
"Compre Argentino" law. 1/ The locomotive scrapping and purchase programs
have been designed ito gradually reduce the number of types of locomotives
from the present figure of 22 to 14 in 1982. FA's diesel locomotive require-
ments are shown in Table 2.4.
1/   The Compre Argentino" law provides that no import license will be issued
if the item to be imported is, or can be, manufactured in Argentina.



- 13 -
2.23      FA has a high percentage of over-aged wagons; roughly 68% are over
40 years old (Table 2.5). FA plans to scrap almost 6,000 wagons by the end
of 1981 (Table 2.6). To complement this program, FA plans to purchase new
wagons and to rehabilitate others, largely through the replacement of
bogies.
2.24      FA's scrapping, rehabilitation and purchase programs for locomotives
and rolling stock through 1980 are reasonably well defined and have been derived
with the assistance of consultants (ITALCONSULT, Italy) and the Bank. To define
more precisely FA's requirements after 1980, technical assistance is included in
the proposed loan (Annex 1). This program will be integrated with the program
for rationalizing the maintenance workshops (para 2.25).
(iii) Workshops
2.25      FA has 22 workshops for the maintenance and general repair of
motive power and rolling stock, 12 of which are on the broad gauge, four on
the standard gauge and six on the narrow gauge. These workshops developed
with the individual railways, and each had several production lines for
steam and diesel locomotives, railcars, passenger cars and freight cars. A
program to rationalize the workshops was started under the first Bank loan,
but no significant results were achieved. Under the present Government
administration, FA has begun to reorganize its workshops in order to achieve
greater specialization and thereby to increase efficiency and improve
quality control. Instructions have already been given for the closure of
three workshops (Strobel, Cruz del Eje and Santa Fe). The Villa Luro
workshop is to be merged with Liniers, and there is a proposal to sell the
Mendoza workshop to private industry. The staff strength of FA workshops,
which stood at 20,005 in 1976, was reduced to 15,300 by the end of 1978. A
small team of experts from SOFRERAIL, France, is presently studying the
workshops and line maintenance sheds and is expected to present its recom-
mendations within about one year, to be followed by a period of implementa-
tion. The SOFRERAIL study will be made available to the Bank, and this work
will be coordinated with the study of motive power and rolling stock require-
ments, to be financed under the proposed loan (Annex 1). The proposed
Bank-financed study is aimed at developing a workshop rationalization
program that takes into account the long-term needs of FA.
(iv) Signaling and Telecommunications
2r26      FA's signaling installations are generally very old (more than 30-40
years), somewhat obsolete and of different types. Electric controls and inter-
locking between signals and crossings are limited, and, in stations, they are
mechanical. Many of the level crossings in urban areas are unprotected by
signals. The telecommunications system consists of telephone installations
for train operation, for which transmission is by overhead lines. The wires
are old and unreliable, the equipment is heterogeneous, and the level of
communications over various parts of the railway is poor. FA will soon
install automatic telephone exchanges in the zonal headquarters of Buenos
Aires, Tucuman and Cordoba and a long distance carrier system over much of
the network.



- 14 -
2.27      There is a need for an integrated signaling and telecommunications
system to enable FA to change over to modern met:hods of train control and to
provide management with the necessary information systems. The project
includes some signaling works in the suburban Buenos Aires area, ths reh  I41i
tation of telephone transmission lines with the necessary ancillary equipment,
and a study to be financed by the proposed loan for the development of an
integrated signaling and telecommunications network (para 3.06).
(v) Other Property
2.28      In general, the buildings, stations and plant of the railway are old
but reasonably well maintained. The project includes some locally financed
minor buildings for housing for workers, stores, cabins, etc., to complement
the line works.
F.   Traffic
(i) Freight Traffic
2.29      Freight traffic statistics by commodily and gauge for the period
1973-1977 and the forecasts, including provisional 1978 figures for tonnages
only, for the period 1978-1983 are given in Tab:Les 2.7 and 2.8 respectively.
Freight densities for 1977, and as forecast by the end of the plan period
(1983), are shown on Map IBRD 13699.
2.30      Freight traffic reached its peak in 1928/29, declined during the
Depression years of the early 1930s, recovered during the period of the
Second World War and then declined from 35.4 mi:Llion tons in 1946 to 23.4
million tons in 1965, a decrease of 34%.  Ton-km over the same period declined
less sharply from 17.3 to 14.2 billion, a decrease of only 18%, as shorter haul
traffic was lost to highway competition and the average haul increased from
490 to 607 km. While the shift to road transport during this period was
experienced by many countries in the world, it probably would have been much
less in the case of Argentina (given the limited extent of the paved highway
network that existed for most of this period) had the railways been able to
handle the business that was offered. The cont:inued neglect of the railways
and the consequent progressive physical deterioration of the motive power,
rolling stock and track prevented this from happening. During the rest of
the 1960s and early 1970s, with increased competition and the continued
neglect of the railways, traffic showed a very gradual but persistent decline.
In 1975, freight traffic had fallen to 16.3 mill-ion tons and 10.7 billion
ton-km (less than one-third the level of traffic that the railways once carried).
2.31      Freight traffic began to increase in 1.976; tonnage increased by 3%
and ton-km by 3.3%. In 1977, freight traffic inicreased again, reaching
19.8 million tons and 11.5 billion ton-km, representing increases of 15% and
5.4% respectively. The very exceptional increase in tonnage and the modest
but significant :increase in ton-km in 1977 are raainly explained by a large
increase in grain traffic (33%) which has an average length of haul (about
270 km) considerably below the average for all traffic, which decreased from
610 km in 1976 to 579 km in 1977.
2.32      The main commodities carried by the railway in 1977, in order of
importance in terms of ton-km, were: sugar (11,'), fuel oil (11%), wine (7%),
wheat (7%), petroleum (6%), cement (5%), sorghum (5%), mineral products (5%),
corn (5%), forestry products (4%), and limestone (4%). Some of the most
important traffic flows in the system include: sugar (over one million tons



- 15 -
per year) from Tucuman to Buenos Aires (over 1,000 km); wine (over 600,000
tons per year) from Mendoza/San Juan to Buenos Aires (about 1,000 km); grains
(about 7.5 million tons per year) from the vast fertile plains surrounding and
including the province of Buenos Aires to consumption centers and ports on the
lower Parana River and Atlantic coast (an average distance of about 330 km);
cement (about 600,000 tons per year) from the provinces of Cordoba, Neuquen
and Santiago Estero to Buenos Aires (an average distance of about 650 km);
heavy fuel oil (almost 900,000 tons per year) from Mendoza to San Lorenzo
(900 km); limestone (about 212,000 tons per year) from Mendoza to Buenos Aires
(over 1,000 km) and salt (about 270,000 tons per year) from Neuquen to Buenos
Aires (about 900 km). These main traffic flows alone account for about 50% of
FA's total freight traffic. Densities in 1977 (Map IBRD 13699) range from a
high of over two million tons between Mendoza and Ruffino and over one million
tons between Buenos Aires and Bahia Blanca, Rico and Bahia Blanca and Rosario
and Santa Fe (all on the broad gauge subsystem), to less than 100,000 tons on
some parts of the standard and narrow gauge subsystems. Freight transferred
between gauges is relatively small, amounting to 60,000 tons in 1977, or about
3% of the total freight traffic.
2.33      Over the forecast period (1978-1983), tonnage is expected to increase
by 4.5% per annum to about 26 million, and ton-km by 3.7% per annum to about
14.2 billion. The average length of haul for total traffic is expected to
decrease to 547 km as grain traffic, with its shorter haul, becomes relatively
more important. These freight traffic forecasts are attainable provided, of
course, that FA accomplishes the Plan of Action described in paragraph 3.14,
particularly with respect to the availability of locomotives and the produc-
tivity of wagons. Also important in this regard are the purchases of new,
locomotives and rolling stock and the rehabilitation of the track included in
the project. The forecasts, representing the combined work of consultants
and Bank staff, are largely based on regression analysis, with modifications.
Regression equations for each commodity, relating total national supply (Table
2.9, derived from detailed market and production possibility studies by regions)
to railway traffic, were used. The results were modified to account for those
markets where, on the basis of more detailed information, it was believed that
the railway would have a greater or smaller role to play than *the regression
analysis would indicate. 1/ (See paragraphs 2.41-2.49 for a discussion of
1/   Some of the most important adjustments which were made to the regression
analysis include those for: petroleum, where railway traffic is expected
to decrease because of the decreased yield of the Carmancito oil field
(at the same time, market expansion is not envisaged because of competi-
tion from pipelines, para 2.42); fruits and flour where competition from
road transport is expected to hold railway traffic to present levels;
livestock (cattle), where increased competition from trucks is expected to
progressively diminish this traffic; firewood, where railway traffic is
expected to decrease as consumers substitute other fuels; petroleum coke
(included in the category combustible minerals), where railway traffic is
expected to increase as the result of a recently negotiated contract with
the shipper; and grains, where the railway is expected to participate in
an increasingly larger share of the market during the latter part of the
plan period as the railway is rehabilitated and the grain storage project
is completed. The locations of the planned grain storage silos are shown
on Map IBRD 13699.



- 16 -
FA's competitive position with respect to other modes of transport.) Ton-km
were then forecast by commodity by applying estimates of average lengths of
haul, which, for only a few commodities, are expected to be significantly
different from present averages. To obtain line densities, the tonnages by
commodity were then distributed among the lines irI the same proportions as
exist at present with the exception of grain traffic, which was adjusted to
account for the grain storage project planned to be in full operation in 1983;
this project, at least over the forecast period, is the only factor expected
to alter significantly the relative importance of the railway's main origin
and destination pairs for principal commodities. L/
(ii) Intercity Passenger Traffic
2.34      Intercity passenger traffic statistics by gauge for the period
1970-1977, together with the forecasts for 1978-1983, are given in Table 2.10.
Intercity passenger traffic densities at present (1978) are shown on Map IBRD
13699.
2.35      In contrast to freight, intercity passenger traffic continued to
grow in the period following the Second World War, due partly to the growth of
population and urbanization and probably also to the low level of fares
maintained during this period. However, intercity passenger traffic reached
its peak in 1965 with 53.7 million passengers and 6.4 billion pass-km. Since
then, it has been steadily decreasing as the counitry's road system and road
vehicle fleet have increased. In 1977, the railway carried 15 million
intercity passengers for an average journey of 293 km per passenger, or
4.4 billion pass-km.
2.36      The present Government has been following a policy of reducing
uneconomic passenger services on those low density lines where public road
transport is available at lower cost to the economy. Intercity passenger
train-km were reduced from an annual level of 32.8 million at the end of
1975 to an estimated 18 million for 1978 (based on present train schedules),
a decrease of 45% in a period of three years. While this progress is excep-
tional judging from the experience of many other countries, there is still
scope for further reductions. Densities (Map IBRD 13699) on several parts of
the narrow and standard gauge subsystems are below 200,000 passengers per
annum. Preliminary comparative cost studies indicate that the breakeven
density (above which rail is less costly than bus transport) is likely to be
considerably higher. Of course, there are a few lines where traffic is
already quite high (above one million passengers per annum) and, if the
service can be improved, the prospects for further growth appear good. These
lines are principally between Buenos Aires and Mar del Plata, Rosario and
Santa Fe.
1/   Railway traffic forecasts derived from a full network analysis based on
commodity origin and destination matrices would, of course, have been
ideal. The results from such an approach should be available in 1980
under the National Transport Plan. In the meantime, the approach adopted
is considered sufficiently reliable for the purposes at hand, which are,
basically, to identify immediate investment priorities and to forecast
operating and financial results for the next few years.



- 17 -
2.37      With the need to reduce some intercity passenger services further
ancl to develop others, the Government has agreed to have SST undertake a study
of the railways' intercity passenger services. The study, which would examine
specific lines, would be included in the proposed project. The implementation
schedule and cost of this study are shown in Annex 1. Pending the results of
this study, the Government has agreed to a target of 16 million train-km by
1980 (2 million less than in 1978) to be held constant over the plan period
(P:Lan of Action, para 3.14). Based on this level of service, the tentative
intercity passenger forecast, to be revised and agreed with the Bank when the
results from the study are available, shows a marginal decrease in both
passengers and pass-km, from 15 million and 4.4 billion, respectively, in
1977 to 14.9 million and 4.3 billion, respectively, in 1983.
(iii) Suburban Passenger Traffic
2.38      Suburban railway passenger traffic statistics for the period
1970-1977, together with the forecasts for 1978-1983, are given in Table 2.11.
Traffic densities are shown on Map IBRD 13700.
2.39      The suburban rail service in the Buenos Aires area extends for
about 60 km from the city. It accounts for about one million daily passenger
trips at present, or about 8% of the total passenger trips in the metropolitan
region. The suburban rail service is actually of greater importance than
these figures would indicate since it serves the people who make the longest
trips. The average journey distance for the suburban passenger is about 20
km. The volume of passenger traffic on the suburban railway remained more or
less constant during the 1960s, declined during the early 1970s, and then rose
again to 411 million passengers in 1976. However, in 1977, it decreased signifi-
cantly to 387 million passengers, partly because of the deteriorating level
and quality of service, particularly on the southern (Roca) and narrow gauge
lines and partly because of deliberate reductions in service in order to
release locomotives for the increased transport of grain as the railway was
caught short of the necessary motive power. This tradeoff was clearly benefi-
cial to FA from the financial point of view.
2.40      The growth of suburban railway traffic in the future will depend
on the demand but, also critically, and, perhaps most importantly for the
next few years, on the extent and rate at which improvements are made in the
level and quality of service. Thus, it is impossible to separate the traffic
forecasts for this service from the formulation of a master plan for the
suburban railway. The determination of traffic forecasts, therefore, is
included as one of the tasks to be accomplished under an overall suburban
railway master plan study to be financed by the proposed loan. The implemen-
tation schedule and cost of this study are shown in Annex 1. For planning
purposes, pending the results of this study, the Government has agreed to hold
suburban passenger train-km constant at the estimated 1978 level of 27.2
million (Plan of Action, para 3.14). Upon the assumption of constant train-km,
the tentative suburban passenger forecast, to be revised and agreed with the
Bank when the master plan study is available, shows an increase from 387 million
passengers in 1977 to 428 million passengers in 1983. In addition, FA and the
Government agreed during negotiations to discontinue, by the end of 1979, the
small suburban rail services that are provided in a few cities outside of
Buenos Aires where the densities are extremely low and bus services are more
economical.



- 18 -
G.   Intermodal Freight Competition
2.41      In analyzing FA's competitive position with respect to freight
traffic, the latter may be divided into two basic categories--grains and other
traffic. Most of FA's non-grain traffic, the composition of which is fairly
diverse and comprised mostly of bulk commodities, has average hauls above
800 km and, for several commodities, above 1,000 km. The following average
hauls for commodities, which constitute about 52% of total railway freight
traffic (grains account for another 18%), are representative: sugar, 1,115 km;
wine, 1,071 km; combustible minerals, 938 km; other minerals such as sulphur,
borax, iron, zinc and lead, 800 ki; heavy fuel oil, 792 km; cement, 547 km;
salt, 827 km; limestone, 830 km and forestry products including logs and
sawn lumaber, 1,178 km. For these principally bulk, long haul traffic flows,
trucking in Argentina is not competitive on groun,ls of cost.  Even for cement,
with an average haul of 547 km, trucking is considerably more costly than
rail; at: an average haul of around 500 km, the railway tariffs and direct
costs for transporting cement are about 50% and 43%, respectively, of the
truck tariffs and costs.  It is quite apparent, therefore, that the inroads
that trucking has made into the railway's market Eor these commodities in the
past, aside from the elimination of purely short-haul traffic, have been due
not to market factors but essentially to the railway's inability, through its
own inefficiency and generally deficient physical condition, to carry what it
was offered (para 2.30).
2.42      For petroleum and the lighter petroleum products, however, which
constitute about 8%' of total railway freight trafiic, FA does compete directly
with pipelines, which provide a cheaper mode of transport for these commodities
and which now interconnect most receiving ports, oil fields, refineries and
storage areas (para 1.12). No reversal in the railway's present downward
trend for these commodities is expected. The railway is still competitive,
however, in the transport of heavy fuel oil, which cannot be transported by
the pipelines now existing in Argentina.
2.43      The market for grain traffic deserves special attention since the
average hauls are relatively short. The railway's average haul for this
traffic is about 270 km, a distance at which trucks are normally competitive.
An analysis of tariffs in the province of Buenos Aires in November 1977
indicates that, for the distance equal to the average length of haul by rail,
the rail tariffs for wheat, corn, sorghum, vegetable oil seeds and other
grains are about 79%, 80%, 73%, 56% and 84% respectively of the truck tariffs.
The rail tariff for grain tends to be about 25% lower than the truck tariff
at distances above 100 km, specifically about 78% of the road tariff at
275 km, 73% at 400 km and 74% at 600 km. In order to determine whether the
rail tariff for grain (USg1.75 per ton-km based on the average length of haul)
covers costs and is, in fact, an accurate reflectiDn of FA's real competitive
position or, if not, whether FA would be able to raise tariffs to remunerative
levels and still sell its services in a competitive market, both railway and
trucking costs must be considered. For this purpose, a comparative cost
analysis was made based on current average trucking and railway operations
for grains. Average avoidable costs for both modes (excluding administrative
and fixed right-of-way costs) were used. The results are summarized as
follows:



- 19 -
Road and Rail Grain Transport Costs
(USe ton-km)
Rail:      BG = 1.70; NG = 2.0; SG = 2.40
Truck:      2.0
2.44      First, it may be noted that the rail tariff for grain is about equal
to the directly associated costs on the broad gauge subsystem, about 88% of
the costs on the narrow gauge subsystem and only about 73% of the directly
associated costs on the standard gauge subsystem. Thus, the comparison of
road and rail tariffs for grain is a reasonably accurate reflection of FA's
competitive position only on the broad gauge subsystem, which, at present,
accounts for 88% of the railway's total grain traffic. Since the rail tariff
for grain is significantly less than the directly associated costs on both
the standard and narrow gauge subsystems, tariffs at present cannot be used
to measure the railway's competitive position on either of these two subsystems.
2.45      The comparative road and rail cost analysis indicates that, for the
transport of grains, the directly associated rail costs are below truck costs
only on the more important broad gauge subsystem. Rail costs for the trans-
port of grain on the narrow gauge subsystem, which accounts for about 10% of
the railway's total grain traffic, are equal to truck costs and are signifi-
cantly more than truck costs on the standard gauge subsystem, which accounts
for about only 2% of the railway's total grain traffic. The relatively high
cost on the standard gauge subsystem is partly explained by an average haul
for grain (about 203 km) which is about 25% below the average for the whole
railway. Thus, if the railway were to try to charge a remunerative tariff for
grain today, based on present costs, on either the narrow or standard gauge
subsystems, it would definitely lose grain traffic to trucking. The scope for
raising grain tariffs in real terms on the broad gauge subsystem (where
tariffs are already about equal to the directly associated costs), in order to
cover some of the railway's administrative overhead and fixed right-of-way
costs, is rather limited because the margin by which truck costs exceed rail
costs on this subsystem is only about 18%. One would normally expect this
margin to be at least above 20% in order to neutralize such factors as door-
to-door service and greater scheduling flexibility, which generally characterize
truck transport and which have not been taken into account in the direct cost
comparisons.
2.46      By introducing improvements in operating efficiency as indicated
by the targets under the project, railway costs for the transport of grain
can be reduced by about 9%, 7% and 12%, on the broad, narrow and standard gauge
subsystems respectively. This should enable FA to experiment with raising
grain tariffs above the directly associated costs on the broad gauge subsystem.
However, the envisaged cost reductions would not be sufficient to permit grain
tariffs to be raised to remunerative levels on either the narrow or standard
gauge subsystems without substantial loss of traffic. It should be enough to
make the transport of grains on the narrow gauge subsystem an economical



- 20 -
proposition which is important in its own right by lowering rail costs below
trucking costs. However, further cost reductions would be required on the
standard and narrow gauge subsystems before the former could be expected to
provide an economic service and both subsystems could charge a remunerative
tariff for grain without losing traffic. It was agreed during negotiations
that FA would prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review, by December 31,
1979, a program for the improvement of its total grain transport operations.
2.47      Thus, while the average hauls for grain are relatively short, it
appears that the railway can compete effectively for this traffic (with the
possible exception of the standard gauge subsystem which, in any case, is
relatively unimportant for such traffic) using modern, unitized methods of
handling and transport. Better terminal facilities for grains on railway
sidings in both production and port areas and conversion of general wagons into
specialized hopper wagons, as provided under the Bank's grain storage project,
more new specially designed hopper wagons, as provided under the proposed
project, and the usea of more block trains are all means toward achieving this
end. 1/  The alternative of not providing the railway with this capacity would
mean that, in the short run at least, the country's grain export targets
probably could not be achieved and, eventually, as trucks met the demand, that
the cost of transport would be substantially higher than otherwise necessary.
2.48      The foregoing generally optimistic assessment of FA's present and
prospective competitive position with respect to freight traffic should be
interpreted with a c:ertain degree of caution. The analysis is based on an
evaluation of market: conditions (cost and demand characteristics). However,
as the past record indicates (para 2.30), the inefficiency of the railway,
as reflected in FA's inability to carry all the traffic it was offered, has
often prevented the railway from assuming its real competitive position. One
of the main objectives of the proposed Bank projecl: is to reduce this ineffi-
ciency and allow FA to carry more freight. This aspect would have to be care-
fully monitored by the Bank during the supervision process.
2.49      A somewhat special problem pertains to the standard gauge subsystem.
This subsystem is involved in the transport of fore!stry products as well as
tea from the Misiones region in the northeastern corner of Argentina (the main
production area for this railway subsystem) to the Buenos Aires area. In the
future, this subsystem could face severe competition from river transport once
the rapids on the upper Parana River are eliminated. by the Yacyreta hydro-
electric dam now planned for completion by the mid or late 1980's. In fact,
once the Parana River, which parallels the entire trunk line of the standard
gauge subsystem, becomes navigable throughout, and, if the river fleet is
expanded (at present it is too small to consider), the economic and finan-
cial viability of the entire standard gauge subsystem could become an issue.
1/   About 70% of all railway grain traffic at present is carried in block
trains. However, use of many non-specialized wagons and inadequate
terminal facilities have prevented this method of operation from achiev-
ing the full economies. Both the Bank's grain storage project and the
proposed project: are directed at removing these constraints.



- 21 -
However, these developments are not likely to occur before the end of the next
decade. In order to minimize risk, present investments in this subsystem
should be confined to meeting only immediate and near-term future requirements.
The NTP, which has the perspective of a 20-year planning horizon, should be able
to provide further clarification of this issue.
H.   Operations
2.50      Table 2.12 gives a summary of operating statistics for the years
1968 to 1977. Statistics by gauge are given for 1977 (Table 2.13). There
is room for considerable improvement in train loads and speeds, wagon utiliza-
tion and locomotive and wagon availability. For suburban passenger trains,
average occupancy is good (75%), and, for intercity passenger trains, the
average occupancy is improving because of the recent reduction in the most
uneconomic services, which is not yet reflected in the available data.
Serious accidents are not uncommon, and derailments due to track and vehicle
defects are numerous.
2.51      FA is continuing to implement a plan, started with SOFRERAIL's
technical assistance in 1970, to rationalize train operations. Implementation
was completed only on the standard gauge subsystem, and, although started also
on other lines, the work was never completed because of a lack of locomotives.
The plan involves dividing FA's system into operating zones within which
train programing and wagon management and control are carried out. FA also
plans to improve wagon control by reducing the delivery time of empties. A
pilot project is being carried out on one of the broad gauge lines. Full
implementation of these improvements will depend upon the rate of improvement
of FA's communications (presently under way) and the recruitment of qualified
personnel in FA's computer center. FA is also carrying out a program (again
with SOFRERAIL's assistance) to reduce the number of yards, concentrating on
some 24 major yards and rationalizing their operations.
2.52      Other programs to increase the number of block and unit trains 1/
and to generally increase the size of trains are being implemented as locomo-
tive availability increases. FA's program of shop rationalization is described
in paragraph 2.25 preceding.
I.   Commercial Department
2.53      In 1971, FA, with the assistance of SOFRERAIL, established the
so-called first commercial zone office in Tucuman as a pilot project.
Because of opposition from the unions, this project was stalled, and only
now a second commercial zone in Cuyo is being established (apart from Cuyo,
commercial zones are to be established in Villa Mercedes, Rosario and
Cordoba in the coming year). In all, 16 commercial zones will be established
to replace the commercial departments on the individual lines. The zones
I/   A block train is composed of freight cars having the same origin and
destination, whereas a unit train is a block train carrying only one
commodity. Neither needs intermediate shunting of wagons.



- 22 -
overlap the geographical dividing lines between the individual railways of
the FA system, which is consistent with the general policy of ignoring such
historically determined divisions in reorganizing the administration and
operations of FA. The new commercial zones will *be responsible directly to
headquarters in Buenos Aires.  They are expected to give greater flexibility
in resolving problems (wagon shortages, for exampLe) and to reduce competi-
tion between the lines, promote the efficiency, quality and sale of railway
services and improve relations with users. Formerly these functions were
carried out by the local traffic departments when they had time, with the
result that the job was done poorly. The new commercial zones are to be
established by personnel trained at the existing Tucuman office.
J.   Tariff and Costs
2.54      One of the reasons for FA's poor financiial results has been its
failure in the past to adjust tariffs frequently enough to offset the effects
of high rates of inflation on its operating costs. The new Government
(March 1976) permitted significant real increases in passenger fares. Freight
rates in real terms declined slightly and then were increased by a large
percentage in late 1977 and again in early 1978. The Government's policy has
been to approve tariff increases frequently enough to offset the effects of
high rates of inflation on FA's costs. In order to facilitate the implementa-
tion of this policy, approval of tariff increases is now required only from
the Subsecretary of Transport and no longer from higher levels in the Ministry
of Economy, as was required formerly. The Government is now prepared to go
even further in granting commercial autonomy to FA. It was agreed during
negotiations that the Government would not object to FA's changing freight
tariffs, except in those cases where it felt that FA was exercising mono-
polistic power. Passenger tariffs would still be subject to Government
regulation; however, the Government is willing to adopt a rational tariff and
subsidy policy for these services (para 5.23). With these changes in policy,
the Government is clearly moving in the right direction.
2.55      With respect to costs, FA has made traffic costing studies and has
determined the variable and fixed costs associated with the various railway
services. There are many weaknesses, however, in these estimates, essentially
because inadequate material costs are used in establishing maintenance costs
for rolling stock and permanent way, inadequate depreciation allowances are
included and there are general distortions which are inevitable in a highly
inflationary environment. With these caveats in mind, an analysis of 1976
costs has been made.  The results are reviewed in detail in Chapter V of this
report, but some general findings are worth noting at this point.
2.56      Freight rates on the broad gauge subsystem did cover long-run marginal
costs, although by a very small amount in 1976.  RLte increases projected in
real terms over the coming years will widen this margin and enable FA to reduce
the losses from freight services on the standard arLd narrow gauge subsystems.
2.57      FA failed to recover the long-run marginal costs of the Buenos Aires
suburban passenger services in 1976. With a projected increase of such rates
from the equivalent of USVO.6 per pass-km in 1976 (USV12 per average trip) to



- 23 -
USV1.35 (or US27 a trip), such losses should be eliminated by 1980 for FA as a
whole. Suburban services in other cities, which contribute to the losses, are
being phased out (para 2.40). Intercity passenger services have been consider-
ably reduced since 1976 by eliminating the worst money losers. With these and
further reductions planned, together with increases in fares from an average of
USJ0.96 per pass-km in 1976 to an expected USV1.80 by 1980, FA should be able
to cover the long-run marginal costs of this service by the end of the plan
period.
2.58      Postal baggage and parcel post services are unremunerative as well
as uneconomic and they should be transferred to other modes. It was agreed
during negotiations that FA would prepare and furnish to the Bank for its
review, by June 30, 1980, a program for the elimination of uneconomic parcel,
baggage and postal services.
2.59      With the tariff increases envisaged, the phasing out of uneconomic
services and the general rehabilitation of the railway, FA's financial position
should improve considerably. However, in addition to these improvements,
a large increase in freight traffic will be needed before full financial
viability can be achieved. Meanwhile, continuing Government subsidies will
be required, particularly where uneconomic lines or services are maintained
f or social or other reasons. The subsidy policy agreed with the Government
during loan negotiations is covered in detail in paragraph 5.23.
K.   Budgets, Accounting and Audit
(i) Budgets
2.60      FA prepares detailed annual operating and investment budgets which
must be approved by the Subsecretary of Transport and the Ministry of Economy.
Reallocations are made from one budget category to another. However, since
personnel costs absorb some 70-80% of expenditures, transfers among the other
categories are not large. Procedures for approving and adjusting FA's budgets
have aggravated the spare parts problem. Although initial budget allocations
for materials purchases (including spares) may have been adequate, subsequent
supplementary allocations have fallen short of those needed to offset infla-
tionary price increases. Actual material purchases have, as a result, fallen
short of needs. To some extent, the responsibility for this problem lies with
the Purchasing Departments of FA which have been slow in ordering materials.
Purchases have been concentrated in the latter part of the budget period when
the effect of budget cutbacks tends to be greatest. The weaknesses in the
purchasing organization of FA were reviewed by the Bank, and recommendations
were made for improvements and further study. Consultants CONARSUD have been
entrusted with the task of improving procedures. FA has prepared estimates of
rolling stock and permanent way maintenance requirements in physical terms for
the plan period. These estimates were discussed with FA and Government repre-
sentatives during loan negotiations. FA has agreed to carry out the programs
and the Government has agreed to provide the necessary budgetary allocations.
These estimates would, of course, be subject to review in the light of changing
levels of railway activity, but they would form the basis for review during
project implementation.
(ii) Accounting
2.61      The accounting system of FA is very cumbersome, and the annual
financial statements are produced only after long delays. Consequently,



- 24 -
the management of FA relies mainly on budget data for measuring financial
performance during the year.  Each of the six railways of FA produces its
own financial statements, and these are consolidated, usually late in the
following year. Figures are presented in current pesos, so that comparisons
fum yeGr to year are difficult.  Fixed assets were revalued in 1972, but,
since then, only values for land and rolling stock were adjusted (to end
1976). Fixed asset values and depreciation are therefore not representative.
Materials consumed are recorded in expenses at cost of purchase so that, given
the high rates of inflation, costs of materials consumed are seriously under-
stated. Operating losses are also understated because of inadequate deprecia-
tion and material costs.
2.62      FA started to centralize its accounting operations in headquarters
in Buenos Aires in the early 1970s, but oppositiorn from the unions halted and
then reversed the process so that the situation int 1977 was as it had been
until 1970, almost completely decentralized. In 1.977, FA engaged consultants
CONARSUD/CONATEC tc restructure the financial/accounting system of FA.
CONARSUD is the consulting subsidiary of FA, and CONATEC is the local
consulting branch of Henry Martin, Accountants, which had been involved in
the early 1970s accounting studies.
2.63      The studies are divided into three stages:  (a) diagnosis of the
problems, reorganization proposals and priority recommendations; (b) detailed
systems design and programming; and (c) training, implementation and followup.
Phase I was completed in June 1978. The consultants have made good progress
to date and have identified a number of special problem areas which need
prompt attention: (a) purchasing management; (b) fixed asset inventories
and revaluation; (c) spare parts inventories and accounting procedures for
stores; (d) the role of the computer center; (e) t:he organization of the
internal audit department; (f) control of cash receipts; and (g) the speed
with which purchased materials are cleared through customs. The consultants
have presented specific proposals for each of the above items, and work was
proceeding on a number of them.  Phase 2 of the st:udies began in October 1978.
Agreement was obtained during negotiations on the changes in accounting for
stores (materials and spare parts) and for depreciation on a revalued asset
base.
2.64      At present, given the decentralized system of accounting and finan-
cial reporting and the lack of adequate financial control over the enter-
prise's operations, the reorganization is in line with other measures to
improve Headquarters' control over the administration and operations of the
railway.  FA agreed. during negotiations to submit copies of its ongoing
financial and accounting studies for Bank comment.
(iii)  External Audit
2.65      Prior to 1977, FA's last external audit was carried out for the year
1973. In accordanc.e with the law establishing FA, a Sindico (a group attached
to the State Corporation which holds the Government's shares in Public Corpora-
tions) has the responsibility for reviewing FA's compliance with its legal,
administrative and financial reporting responsibi:Lities. This was interpreted
to include external auditing responsibility. Unfortunately, the Sindico has
been slow in producing its audit reports (the report for 1974 was completed only
in January 1978) and, at the Bank's urging, FA invited proposals from three



- 25 -
firms of independent external auditors to carry out FA's 1977 audit. The firm
selected was Harteneck and Lopez (associated with Coopers and Lybrand), which
completed the 1977 audit at the end of October 1978. It was agreed during
negotiations that an audit by independent external auditors satisfactory to
the Bank would henceforth be produced annually within four months of the end
of FA's fiscal year.
III. THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A.   FA's Investment Plan (1979-1983)
3.01      Under UNDP financing, with the Bank serving as Executing Agency,
consultants ITALCONSULT, in 1977, reviewed FA's first draft investment plan
(1978-1982). The revised program, recommended by the consultants, was further
modified, during discussions with the Bank, to account for investment limits
imposed by the Ministry of Economy, i.e., approximately US$300 million (mid-1977
prices) annually in real terms for the next several years. The resulting plan,
covering the period 1979-1983, represents a reasonable basis for the start of
the rehabilitation of FA. It is evident that no short term plan can solve all
of FA's problems. A long term approach is essential. The plan in general and
the Bank project in particular are aimed primarily at avoiding a further
serious deterioration of railway services and at starting the rehabilitation
process. While detailed studies are needed in several areas to develop the
program over the latter part of the plan period (Annex 1), many well defined
and justified investments exist for immediate implementation. These are
included in the Bank project.
3.02      The investment plan, divided by type of work or equipment and broken
down by local and foreign costs, is shown in Table 3.1. The investment plan
has also been broken down by subprojects and grouped into three main categories
(Table 3.2) which include: (a)-the project, consisting of those economically
justified subprojects which are planned to begin in the first two years of the
plan period (1979 or 1980); (b) subprojects which were begun before 1979 and
are expected to be completed during the plan period; and (c) subprojects which
will begin after 1980, either because this is the estimated best time to
commence work or because further preparatory work is necessary to define more
clearly the need and the scope of the work through studies and technical
assistance to be undertaken as part of the Bank-financed project. Consequently,
the figures shown for many of the subprojects in the third category are very
preliminary at this stage. One of the main tasks envisaged for the advisors to
FA's Planning Department (para 2.10) would be to assist FA in evaluating all
of the subprojects in category (c). Category (a), the project, accounts for
45% of the total investment plan (US$1.33 billion excluding contingencies).
Categories (b) and (c) account for 31% and 24% respectively. It was agreed
during negotiations that FA would consult with the Bank before undertaking
investments exceeding a total of US$10 million per year other than those
included in the project and ongoing categories. In addition, FA has agreed
to prepare and to furnish to the Bank, by July 1, 1980, for its review and
comments, a program of investments to begin in the period 1981/82.



- 26 -
3.03      One of the main items included in the ongoing category is a project
to electrify 44 route-km of track on the Roca suburban line. Some contracts
have a:Lready been signed, and the credit has been arranged. So far as the
Government is concerned, the decision to go ahead with this project is  -
vocable, and, for this reason, it is included in the ongoing category. The
total cost of this project, including rolling stock and track renewal, is esti-
mated at US$290 million (mid 1977 prices). Because of its high cost, the Bank
was particularly concerned both from the point of view of the feasibility of
the project itself and its overall impact on the availability of resources for
carrying out other higher priority investments on the railway. The Bank's
position has been basically that, before embarking on a project of this kind,
other alternatives, such as improving the existing diesel service, should be
examined more carefully. Nevertheless, the Government has decided to go ahead.
The Bank has decidled not to object provided (a) policies are adopted to ensure
that an economicaL diversion of traffic from the road system to the electrified
rail service occurs to make the latter a more economic proposition and (b) the
capital cost of thze investment is transferred from the railway budget to another
budget., preferably to one which is more closely associated with the beneficiary
group. The Govern-ment has agreed to comply with both provisions. The policies
referrred to in (a) above will be identified in the suburban rail masterplan
study which is included in the project. Also, the Government agreed during
negotiations to create a special federal budget for all suburban rail invest-
ments, which would include the Roca electrification project among others, and
to study the ways by which the affected local governments that are more
closely related to the beneficiary group could eventually participate and
finance the new budget. The Government is also considering the possibility of
creating a separate suburban railway company with its own accounts, and, as
previously mentioned (para 1.15), this subject will be examined in a study of
the suburban rail system which is included in the project.
B.   The Project and the Proposed Loan
3.04      The objective of the project is to strengthen FA through redimen-
sioning, rehabilitation and rationalization to eniable it to concentrate on
traffic for which it has a definite competitive advantage (principally long
haul bulk traffic). These measures should reduce FA's financial dependence
upon the Government.  A longer term goal is, of course, the complete financial
independence of FA.
3.05      A comparison of the project and the Bank loan is detailed in
Table 3.3, and a list of equipment and services to be financed by the Bank
loan is given in 'Cable 3.4. The Bank loan would be equivalent to 34% of the
foreign exchange costs of the project. A summary is shown below:
(F:igures in US$ Millions)
Proposed
Total Project            Bank
Local    Foreign    Total      Loan
Way and Works                     247.71     91.59   339.30      37.5
Track Rehabilitation Contract       4.70      3.50      8.20      3.5
Signal and Telecommunications    16.63       15.61    32.24         -
Motive Plower/Rolling Stock       103.04    113.02   216.06      38.0
ConsultiLng Services                0.50      3.00      3.50      3.0
Total wiLthout Contingencies      372.58    226.72   599.30      82.0
Total with Contingencies          464.67    284.23   748.90      96.0



- 27 -
C.   Main Project Items
3.06      The main items included in the project are as follows (see Table 3.2
for more details):
(i) Permanent Way Works
(a)  Access to silos, the Central Market in Buenos Aires and
Rosario Port.
(b)  Full rehabilitation of permanent way, including track,
bridges and telephone transmission lines in the Temperley-Mar
del Plata, Temperley-Bahia Blanca, Concordia-Posadas,
Retiro-Rosario, Rosario-Tucuman, Jose C. Paz-Mendoza and
Santa Fe-Tostado-Pinedo sections.
(c)  Partial track renewal and bridge rehabilitation in the
Cordoba-Tucuman and Tucuman-Guemes sections and only partial
track renewal in the V. Const.-V. Tuerto, H. Renanco-Darregueira,
Caseros-Haedo and Canada Verde-J. Daract sections.
(d)  Permanent way rehabilitation on three broad gauge lines (San
Martin, Mitre and Sarmiento) in the Buenos Aires suburban
system including track, signals, bridges and power sub-
stations.
(e) Light track maintenance equipment.
(ii) Motive Power and Rolling Stock
(a)  Line locomotives (BG-20) and shunting locomotives
(BG-52; NG-1; SG-1).
(b)  Rehabilitation of wagons (BG-429; NG-1490) and electric
suburban coaches (BG-116) and spare parts for locomotives,
wagons, and coaches.
(c)  Specialized wagons:  grain hoppers (BG-363; NG-209; SG-175),
mineral and stone wagons (BG-353, NG-141, SG-100), auto-
carriers (BG-45, NG-10), platform wagons (BG-123), highsided
wagons (BG-219), multiuse wagons (NG-270), and wine tankers
(BG-60).
(d) Modification of box cars (BG-4088).
(e) Passenger coaches (suburban service BG-14).
(iii)  Technical Assistance and Studies
(a) Technical advisory assistance to strengthen FA's Planning
Department;
(b) Training abroad to assist FA in establishing a research, design
and standards office;



- 28 -
(c)  Studiles to be contracted by SST for (i) a master plan for
the suburban railway; (ii) intercity passenger services
and (iii) uneconomic lines;
(d) Studies to be contracted by the ra:ilway for: (i) an integrated
sigrLaling and telecommunications plan; (ii) motive power,
rolling stock and mechanical maintenance workshop requirements
and (iii) a manpower plan; and
(e) Specific feasibility studies for (:L) new track and civil works
workshop capacity and (ii) container operations.
During negotiations, the Terms of Reference for the studies were discussed and
agreed upon with FA and the Government.
3.07      The main items to be procured under the proposed loan include:  about
42,000 tons of rails; track fittings; about 1,100 freight car bodies of various
types; about 2,700 bogies for both the above bodies and for modernizing existing
freight cars; and some track maintenance equipment, including inspection cars.
The proposed loan would also finance the estimated foreign exchange component
of a track renewal contract and of the technical assistance program. Table 3.4
gives the estimated cost of each item to be financed by the proposed loan.
D.   Cost Estimates
3.08      The cost estimates for FA's investment plan, including the project,
are expressed in US dollars and are based on mid-L977 prices (US$1 = 400 Argen-
tine pesos). A more recent base year was not used in order to facilitate
comparisons with Government planning figures which use the same base year. The
Argentine Government has established an investmenl: ceiling for FA equivalent
to about US$300 million per year expressed in constant mid-1977 prices, which
would be maintained in real terms for the next several years (para 3.01).
Physical contingencies to the extent of 5% have been included on all items
except those covered by ongoing contracts where quantities are clearly known.
Also included are price contingencies between mid*-1977 and the end of the
construction period, applied to both local and foreign costs at the following
annual rates: civil works 8% in 1978, 7.5% in 1979 and 7% from 1980 onward;
and equipment 7% in 1978, 6.5% in 1979 and 6% from 1980 onward.  In Table 3.4,
cost estimates for items proposed for Bank financLng are shown in both base
year mid-1977 prices and, after allowing for contLngencies, in November 1978
prices.
3.09      Some existing contracts with the local industry covering items
included in the project had to be renegotiated, either because the prices
were considered excessive or the quantities on order and the delivery schedules
were inappropriate in the light of present requiriements. The results of the
contract renegotiations were very satisfactory, and the situation has been
substantially corrected.
3.10      Presenting cost estimates and measuring both foreign and local price
contingencies in US dollar equivalents implies a c-ertain relation between
domestic and foreign prices. Specifically, it has been assumed that the peso
exchange rate would change in order to maintain domestic and foreign prices in



- 29 -
the same proportion. The peso has been devalued roughly in accordance with
this pattern since 1975 and it is expected that, during the project implemen-
tation period, this would continue.
E.   Financing Plan
3.11      A forecast cash flow statement was prepared for FA for the years
1978 to 1982 and is given in Chapter V. It estimates FA's financial require-
ments and expected sources of finance for the Investment Plan plus debt
service and operating deficits. Principal sources of finance would be equity
contributions from the Ministry of Economy and FONIT (Fondo Nacional de
Infraestructura del Transporte) as well as loans from financial institutions
(Eximbank, Morgan Guaranty of the U.S.) and suppliers (FIAT of Argentina,
SERCOBE of Spain, Buriasco of Argentina). As mentioned in paragraph 3.03, the
Government agreed during negotiations to establish, by January 1, 1979, a
separate budget to finance the costs and ensuing debt service of the Roca
electrification and other suburban railway investments. This would be an
important source of project financing and, together with the projected contri-
butions of the Ministry of Economy and FONIT, the financing arranged and the
proposed Bank loan, would cover practically all project financing needs, as
shown below (additional financing is being arranged through the Central Bank):
Financing Plan for the Project and Ongoing Items
(Current US$ millions)
Uses of Funds                       1979    1980    1981    1982         Total
Project Cost                         207      294     169       79        749
Cost of other Ongoing Investments   94         95      89      175        453
301     389      258     254       1,202
Sources of Funds
Bank Loan                              7       48      41        -         96
Financial Institutions                81       56      14        8        159
Suppliers                             41       44      14        5        104
Advances Made in Previous Years        6        5       4        -          15
Other Financing to be Arranged         -       33      33        4          70
FONIT                                 74       78      43       30        225
Ministry of Economy                    9        -       -        -           9
Special Budget for Suburban
Railway Investments                 75      119     105      207        506
Sale of Railway Assets                 8        6       4        -         18
301     389      258     254       1,202



- 30 -
3.12      As mentioned in paragraph 3.01, the Ministry of Economy indicated
that FA would be permitted to spend approximately US$300 million equivalent
in mid-1977 prices for investments in the next few years (US$250 million was
set for 1978, of which only an estimated US$191 million has been spei,.
Project costs and the costs of other ongoing investments would exceed US$300
million equivalent in 1980 and thereafter, but not if investments financed
from the separate budget to be established to fiLnance suburban railway invest-
ments are excluded. In any case, the project i'3 defined in physical terms,
and, during negotiations, the Government agreed to carry it out and see that
adequate finance was available to do so.
F.   Project Implementation
3.13      FA would be responsible for the implementation of the project, with
the exception of the studies for the suburban rail service, long distance
passenger services and uneconomic lines, which would  be directed by SST.  A
project implementation schedule and a procurement schedule for the Bank-
financed items are given in Tables 3.5 and 3.6 respectively. These were
agreed with FA during loan negotiations. The implementation periods of the
subprojects range from less than a year for some of the equipment and rolling
stock to as much as four years for those involving permanent way rehabilitation.
G.   Plan of Action
3.14      In order to achieve the project's objectives, FA agreed during nego-
tiations to prepare and implement a Plan of Action designed to achieve the
targets set forth in the tabulation on the following page.
3.15      Based on the results of studies to be accomplished under the project,
several of the targets cited in the Plan of Action will have to be revised. To
accomplish this, FA and the Government agreed to the following schedule during
negotiations:
(a) Send to the Bank, by January 31, 1980, for comment, a copy of
the study of intercity passenger services which is included in
the proposed loan and furnish to the Bank, by April 30, 1980, a
schedule for carrying out the recommendations.
(b) Send to the Bank, by March 31, 1980, for comment, a copy of the
suburban rail master plan study and furnish to the Bank, by
June 30, 1980, an action plan for carrying out the recommendations.
(c)  Send to the Bank, by June 30, 1980, for comment, a copy of the study
on uneconomic lines, and furnish to the Bank, by September 30, 1980, a
schedule for carrying out the recommenclations of the study, including
a system of compensation for those uneconomic lines which would
continue in operation.



- 31 -
Target                              1979      1980      1981     1982
(1) Closure of uneconomic lines by
year end (km) cumulative from
March 1976                                9,500   11,000   11,500   12,000
(2) Intercity passenger
train-km (million)                            17       16        16        16
(3) Suburban passenger train-km
in Buenos Aires (million)                  27.2      27.2      27.2      27.2
(4) Suburban passenger train-km
in other cities (million)                  1.37         0         0         0
(5) Staff (year end)                        112,500  110,000  107,500  105,000
(6) Annual locomotive-km per        BG           100       100      100       100
freight locomotive in           SG           110      110       110       110
service (000)                   NG           110      110       110       110
(7) Annual locomotive-km per        BG           120      120       120       120
intercity passenger             SG          115       120       120       120
locomotive in service (000)   NG            110       110       110       110
(8) Annual locomotive-km per        BG           125      130       135       135
suburban passenger              SG             -        -         -         -
locomotive in service (000)   NG            130       130       130       130
(9) Locomotive availability         BG            68       72        73        75
percentage                      SG           80        80        80        80
NG           65        70       72        75
(10) Freight car availability        BG            79       81        83        85
percentage                      SG           83        84        84        85
NG           68        72       76        80
(11) Average load of freight         BG         32.5      32.8      33.1      33.5
cars (tons)                     SG         20.7      21.3      21.8     22.4
NG         24.0     24.3      24.7      25.2
(12) Average turnaround of           BG            18       17      16.5      16.0
freight cars (days)             SG         11.8      11.5      11.5     11.0
NG         18.3     17.5      16.5      15.5
(13) Working ratio                   BG          137       125       114       109
SG          174      165       148       137
NG          203      203       179       165
FA          151      141       127       121
(14) Operating ratio                 BG          165       151       139      134
SG          202      190       173       160
NG          246      245       220       203
FA          182      170       156       149



- 32 -
(d)  Send to the Bank, by June 30, 1980, for comment, a copy of the study
of the scrapping, rehabilitation and purchase requirements for
locomotives and rolling stock for the period 1981-1983 and the
long-term position of the mechanical workshops and furnish to the
Bank, by September 30, 1980, a program for carrying out the recom-
mendations of the study.
(e) Send to the Bank, by September 30, 198CI, for comment, a copy of the
manpower study and furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31,
1980, a manpower plan which would include (i) the departmental
distribution of manpower year by year through 1983 and (ii) the
policy actions in recruitment, training and salary required to
achieve it.
H.   Procurement
3.16      All items to be procured with the proceeds of the proposed loan
would be subject to ICB, in accordance with Bank guidelines. In bid evalua-
tion, Argentine manufacturers of equipment would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15% of the CIF cost of competing imports, or the relevant
prevailing level of customs duties, whichever is lower. In addition, in
view of the prevailing high costs of the local industry and the fact that
Argentine industry has not yet participated significantly in the inter-
national export market, it is expected that only 30-50% of the ICB
could be won by the local industry.
I.   Disbursements
3.17      Disbursements would be made as follows:
(a) 100% of the foreign expenditures for imported equipment and
materials; and/or
(b) 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment
and materials if local bidders are successful;
(c) 40% of the total cost of the track renewal contract for the
Temperley-Bahia Blanca Section; and
(d) 86% of the total cost of technical assistance and studies.
3.18      An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 3.7.
Disbursements are based on the assumption that the proposed loan would become
effective by June 1979.



- 33 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General Methodology
4.01      The project, as defined in paragraph 3.02, consists of many subprojects,
each of which--with a few exceptions (para 4.05)--was subject to an economic
evaluation. Many of the subprojects, of course, are interrelated. For example,
the benefits from permanent way rehabilitation depend partly on the level of
traffic, which depends partly on the availability of motive power and rolling
stock, which, in turn, is affected by other subprojects which affect operating
efficiency, including, among others, permanent way rehabilitation, thus
completing the causal circle. The subprojects, therefore,truly constitute an
integrated investment program. However, in order to evaluate the contribution
that each subproject would make to the program to decide whether that subproject
should be included, omitted or in some way modified, it was necessary to isolate
the effects from each subproject. To do this, it was assumed, when evaluating
the individual subprojects, that the without project case represents only the
exclusion of the subproject in question and that the other subprojects would
be implemented according to the program, provided, of course, that they passed
the test when similarly individually evaluated. Thus, the resulting rate of
return on each subproject represents the economic contribution of that sub-
project when all the other subprojects in the program to which it is related
are undertaken. Alternatively stated, the realization of the rate of return
on any one of the subprojects is dependent upon the implementation of several
other subprojects in the program. The importance of implementing the invest-
ments as an integrated program is clearly seen from these relationships.
B.   Economic Benefits and Costs
4.02      For the subprojects involving permanent way rehabilitation outside
the suburban system, the benefits taken into account include: (a) savings
in accident costs; (b) savings in emergency track maintenance costs required
to accommodate the forecast traffic at a minimum standard of safety; and
(c) reductions in some fixed train operating costs (namely, crew and train
capital costs) resulting from faster train speeds. The benefits not quantified
include the savings to shippers and passengers from faster and more reliable
service. The benefits taken into account for the permanent way rehabilitation
subprojects within the Buenos Aires suburban system include: (a) reductions
in train (locomotive and coach) maintenance costs; and (b) the provision of
additional capacity for traffic that would otherwise travel by road at a
higher cost. In calculating the latter benefit, only the direct vehicle
operating cost savings were used. Avoided road congestion costs in Buenos
Aires were not quantified.
4.03      For the subprojects to purchase new wagons and shunting locomotives
to replace some old wagons and steam shunting locomotives to be scrapped, the
benefits taken into account include the savings in railway vehicle operating
costs. For the additional purchases of wagons and line locomotives needed to
carry more revenue traffic, the benefits taken into account consist of trans-
port cost savings associated with the avoidance of the loss of railway traffic
to trucking.



- 34 -
4.04      For the subprojects involving track maintenance equipment, the
benefits taken into account include the savings in costs derived from a
comparison between the costs of carrying out the planned track maintenance
program with and without the proposed equipment. FA agreed during negotiations
to carry out the p:Lanned track maintenance program, and the Government agreed
to provide the necessary resources. In the case of those subprojects which
provide rail access, with the exception of the access to the silos which have
already been evaluated as part of the Bank's grain storage project, the
benefits taken into account are savings in road transport costs. For the
subproject to proviide ticketing machines and to enclose stations in the Buenos
Aires suburban system, the benefits (in this case, of a financial nature)
include the additional revenue resulting from the reduction of fare evasion.
4.05      A few items were not evaluated either because they are not amenable
to economic evaluation because of their basically miscellaneous nature or
because there is an obvious need for them, and the economics, which would be
difficult in any case, would shed little additional light. They include:
some miscellaneous repairs to buildings and stations; various small telecom-
munications works on the lines; some equipment for the mechanical workshops
(basically of a replacement nature); the rehabilitation of some wagons; wagons
for service traffic required for FA's rehabilitation program; some reception
areas for the storage of ties; track inspection cars; and signals for the
level crossings in the suburban system, which are needed for safety reasons.
These items constitute only 19% of the total economic costs of the project.
Thus, 81% of the total economic cost of the project has been subject to an
economic evaluation. The economic costs include physical contingencies and
exclude taxes.
C.   Economic Rates of Return
4.06      The economic rates of return range from 11% for some large scale
permanent way rehabilitation works between Buenos Aires and Bahia Blanca, 13%
for the renewal of some track on one of the lines in the broad gauge suburban
system, 19% for the purchase of new diesel shunting locomotives to replace
some old steam locomotives, 21% for the purchase of new rolling stock needed
to carry more revenue traffic, 38% for the light t:rack maintenance equipment,
and 43% for the access to a new central market outside Buenos Aires to 49%
for some small works on the high density line between Retiro (in Buenos Aires)
and Rosario. Generally, the very high rates of return tend to be associated
with those subprojects involving relatively little expenditure and which are
directed at quickly removing some of FA's most critical bottlenecks. The
weighted average economic rate of return on all the subprojects is 22%. The
economic rates of return on the individual subprojects and the details of
their derivation are given in Table 4.1.
D.   Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
4.07      The following sensitivity tests were performed:
(a) a 30% reduction in the rate of growth of freight traffic;
(b) a 10% shortfall in the attainment of the locomotive availability
and wagon turnaround targets; and
(c) a 10% increase in all economic costs.



- 35 -
4.08      These changes tend to cover the most likely types of risk associated
with the project. The results show that slower growth of traffic has only
a marginal effect on the economic viability of the permanent way rehabilitation
subprojects as expected, since the majority of the benefits from these subproj-
ects accrue even without any growth in traffic. However, with lower traffic
growth and less need for additional motive power and wagons, the economic
viability of some of these subprojects is affected significantly. The short-
fall in the attainment of the locomotive availability and wagon turnaround
targets does tend to affect the relative costs of road and rail transport to
the disadvantage of the latter, but, with the magnitude of the most probable
changes considered (a 10% shortfall), the effect does not appreciably reduce
the rates of return on those subprojects which involve savings in road trans-
port costs. Also, an increase in project costs by 10% does not change the
basic conclusions. The weighted average economic rates of return under
sensitivity tests (a), (b) and (c) are 20%, 20% and 18% respectively. If
all these adverse factors are taken together, the overall rate of return would
be 16%. Thus, it appears that the economic viability of the investment program
is not very sensitive to the types and magnitudes of changes most likely to
occur. This is explained by the fact that the project consists primarily of
works to rehabilitate the railway, basically projects which are long overdue.
The details of the results of the sensitivity tests are shown in Table 4.2.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      With low traffic densities and a system which, despite significant
line and station closings, still includes many uneconomic sections, FA has a
long way to go to become a financially viable enterprise. Freight traffic
will have to increase substantially, uneconomic lines and services will have
to be curtailed further and operations will have to be carried out more effi-
ciently at lower unit costs before FA will be able to cover its operating
expenses. Staff numbers will also have to be reduced further and labor pro-
ductivity increased, especially among skilled workers still in short supply
whose salary levels must be raised in order to retain them. The high cost
of spare parts will have be reduced by a relaxation of the "Compre Argentino"
law and by longer term measures to improve the efficiency of domestic spare
parts suppliers. Recently, a committee of FA and Ministry of Economy officials
was established to renegotiate equipment contracts with domestic suppliers.
This work is basically completed; however, the Government plans to maintain
this group for the purpose of reviewing contract prices generally. This will
have a salutary effect on the prices of goods produced by the local industry.
5.02      On the commercial side, further efforts will have to be made to
market services, and railway tariffs will have to be increased in real terms
as the efficiency and quality of railway services improve, not only for
freight but also for passenger services. Tariffs will also have to be
increased frequently and in sufficient amounts to offset the effect of rapid
inflation on FA's costs.



- 36 -
5.03      FA has sustained large operating losses for many years on all gauges,
but particularly on the standard and narrow gauge subsystems. Cash operating
deficits financed by Government subsidies averaged some US$340 million a year
b2tween 1974 and 1977 (Table 5.1). Investments averaging US$97 million a
year and debt repayments averaging US$146 million were financed by further
borrowing and by contributions from FONIT. Long-t:erm debt has remained at
about the same level since the end of 1974, and the ratio of debt to equity
has risen slightly (to 12% of the estimated total capitalization at the end of
1977) as equity declined with the closing of uneconomic lines. Equity will
decline further in the future, as further line closures are affected.
B.   Past Financial Performance
5.04      Income statements for the years 1974 through 1977 are given in
Table 5.2 in pesos.  Because of the extremely high rates of inflation, the
figures were converted to US dollar equivalents using average exchange rates
during the period to make them more comparable year to year. Despite the
distortions that such conversions create, the figtLres in Table 5.3 provide
a basis for understanding the reasons for the changes in FA's operating results
for the last several years. The figures for 1974 to 1977 are summarized below:
(US$ million)
1974      1975       1976       1977
Total Operating Revenues            368        269       285        280
Total Working Expenses              691        725       561        538
Operating Loss before
Depreciation                      323       456        276        258
Depreciation                         34         10         2         33
357       466        278        291
Financial Charges and
Non-Operating Expenses             14         14        27         18
371       479        305        309
Working Ratio                       188        269       196        192
5.05      Although total traffic units varied by only a few percentage points
during this period, operating revenues and expenses varied widely.  Freight and
passenger tariffs were adjusted, but not fast enough to compensate for the large
increases in FA's operating costs. Average freight tariffs, for example, varied
between USf1.63 per ton-km in 1974, US01.29 in 1975 and US01.55 in 1976. Average
intercity passenger fares varied between USOO.96 and USf1.25 per pass-km, and
suburban passenger fares in Buenos Aires varied be!tween US12 and USf17 per pass-
enger trip. On the other hand, costs were influenced principally by changes in
the number of staff (increasing from an average of 142,000 in 1974 to 154,000 in
1976 and falling again to 140,000 in 1977) and by large changes in average
annual remuneration per worker (US$4,600 equivalent in 1974, US$2,736 in 1977).
The very large decline in real salaries between 1975 and 1977 was part of the



- 37 -
Government's overall economic program, which is still continuing although the
Government apparently plans to increase salaries gradually in real terms as the
economy recovers. Other costs have varied much less. Material costs have been
unusually low considering the high cost of spare parts in Argentina. There has
been inadequate maintenance of both rolling stock and permanent way (para 2.22).
Depreciation has been totally inadequate during the period (para 5.13 following).
5.06      Based on an analysis carried out by the costing division of FA's
Planning Department, Table 5.4 shows revenues and long-run marginal costs by
gauge and for each revenue-producing service. About 53% of FA's operating
losses were produced on the broad gauge subsystem, some 10% on the standard
gauge and 37% on the narrow gauge. Losses were distributed among the various
railway services as follows:
Freight                                          28.5
Buenos Aires suburban passengers                 19.6
Other suburban passengers                         8.5
Intercity passengers                             21.6
Postal service                                    5.9
Parcel post and baggage                          15.9
100.0
5.07      Freight long-run marginal costs (LRMC) (US41.54 per ton-kn) are not
unreasonable overall, but those on the narrow and standard gauges are quite
high, reflecting the lower traffic densities, the high costs of steam traction
and yard operations, the expensive ferry service (on the standard gauge, which
was phased out in 1978), and the larger number of mixed passenger and freight
trains. The costs of operating the Buenos Aires suburban passenger service
could be lower with improved operating efficiency, especially on the narrow
gauge subsystem. Different costs among the gauges within the suburban system
principally reflect different train occupancy factors. The costs of operating
suburban services in other cities are extremely high because of very low
occupancy rates (poor patronage) and the use of steam traction in some cities;
these services are being phased out (para 2.40). Intercity passenger service
costs are generally reasonable--differences between gauges again being mainly
attributable to different occupancy rates. The costs of postal service,
parcel post and baggage are excessive and cannot be recovered by rate increases.
These services should be phased out or, if this is not possible, a specific
subsidy should be provided (para 5.23(d)).
5.08      It should be noted that the above costs are derived from FA's financial
accounts, with some adjustment to account for realistic depreciation. They do
not, however, include adequate allowances for rolling stock and permanent way
maintenance. For the narrow gauge, fuel costs are understated because large
purchases in late 1975 were consumed in 1976; they were charged to expenses at
purchase price, which was much lower than the price when consumed. The same
problem applies to materials which are acquired in one year and used in the
next. They are charged to expenses at historical values, which are much lower
than the replacement value because of rapid inflation.



- 38 -
5.09      FA's balance sheets for the years ended December 31, 1971 through
1976 and estimates for 1977 are shown in pesos in Table 5.5. Because of
inflation, year-to-year comparisons are not very meaningful. Moreover, fixed
asset values have not been revised since 1972 (except for land and rolling
stock, which were revised in 1976). In order to better understand the balance
sheets of FA and its financial position, balance sheet figures were converted
to US dollar equivalents. The results are given in Table 5.6 for the years
1973 to 1977 and are summarized as follows:
1973     1974      1975      1976     1977
1(US$ million)
Current assets                     222       178      136       124       143
Current liabilities                198       155      171       109       159
Net working capital
(deficiency)                      24       23       (35)       15      (16)
Net fixed assets                 6,500    6,500    6,500    6,560    6,005
Other assets                         5        14       26        21       24
Total assets                  6,529    6,537    6,491    6,596    6,013
Long term liabilities              169       149      245       176      176
Deferred income                      1         1        1         1        5
Equity                           6,359    6,387    6,245    6,420    5,832
6,529    6,537    6,491    6,596    6,013
5.10      FA's working capital position has fluctuated considerably, depending
principally on Government payments of subsidies (in 1975) and more recently on
the slow payment by official agencies. Accounts receivable at the end of
1977 were high from the national, provincial and other levels of Government,
the Armed Forces and Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF), the national
petroleum company, whose purchases of fuel by FA are credited to YPF's account.
These accounts should be settled more promptly. During negotiations, it was
agreed that, by June 30, 1979, all amounts owed to FA by the Government or any
other public corporation would be paid not more than two months after the
provision of such services. At present, shippers are given 90 days to settle
their accounts before they are charged interest and before balances are
adjusted for inflation.  During negotiations, it was also agreed that, by June
30, 1979, FA would, in its contractual relations with all users of its services,
grant no more than 30 days as the grace period without the charging of an
amount for interest and inflation.
5.11      In order to offset the effects of the slow payment of accounts by
users, FA has fallen behind in the payment of its own accounts. Large amounts
were due to suppliers of material and equipment. These slow payments affect
service and the costs quoted to FA for purchases. As accounts receivable are
reduced, FA should reduce its short-term obligations, which are excessive.



- 39 -
5.12      Long-term debt of FA has not changed much since the end of 1974.
At the end of 1977, debt outstanding totaled US$176 million and was mainly
due to FIAT, Morgan Guaranty, Eximbank for locomotives; Ganz Mavag, Bogeco,
Marubeni and Euskalonna for rails and railroad equipment and Banco Nacional
de Desarrollo to cover operating losses.
5.13      Net fixed asset replacement values were estimated from the revalua-
tion totals estimated by FA in 1971 and entered into FA's accounts in 1972
(and in 1976 for land and rolling stock). No adjustments have been made since
then, with the result that book values are only a fraction of replacement
values. The consultants reviewing FA's accounting and financial systems have
updated the 1971 revaluation figures for rolling stock and land, and they plan
to complete the updating for other assets this year. At that time, revalued
asset figures should be recorded in FA's accounts. FA agreed, during negotia-
tions, to do this by December 31, 1979 with the assistance of the financial
consultants referred to in paragraph 2.62. On the basis of the revaluation
values estimated in 1971, plus estimated acquisitions, less estimated retire-
ments and depreciation, FA's debt/equity ratio at the end of 1977 was 3/97,
which is a very conservative capitalization.
C.   Forecast Financial Performance
5.14      FA has prepared income and expense forecasts based on very optimistic
assumptions about tariff increases which are unlikely to be realized. More-
over, no allowances were made in the forecasts for depreciation. Revised
forecasts were prepared based on the assumptions outlined below. Balance
sheet and cash flow forecasts were also prepared by Bank staff. All fore-
casts are given in US dollar equivalents rather than constant pesos to make
them comparable with past years' figures given in Table 5.3.
5.15      The methodology and principal assumptions are given below:
(a)  Income Accounts
(i) Revenues, based on traffic forecasts (paras 2.33, 2.37 and
2.40). The following rates were applied per ton-km or pass-km:
1978     1979     1980       1981    1982
 ---------------  US  -
Freight                 1.70    1.80      1.90      1.95    2.00
Suburban Passengers    1.10    1.25       1.35      1.40    1.45
Intercity Passengers   1.50    1.65       1.80      1.80    1.80
The 1980 freight rates and intercity passenger fares approxi-
mate those just after the latest increase in April 1978 and
should be achievable on an average basis for the entire year
in 1980. It should be possible to increase freight rates
thereafter, as the quality of service is improved, to USJ2
per ton-km by 1982. Intercity passenger fares can probably
not be increased above the 1980 level because of bus
competition. Suburban passenger fares were set to cover
marginal costs by 1980 with modest increases thereafter.
An average trip of 20 km will cost some USU29 in 1982, which
should be obtainable.



- 40 -
(ii) Operating Expenses
a.   Labor costs are constant throughout the period.
Staff reductions from an average of 118,000 employees
in 1978 to 107,000 in 1982 are offset by salary
increases in keeping with FA's stated policy.
Average staff remuneration rises from US$2,736 in
1977 to US$3,790 in 1982 to regain some of the loss
in real income between 1974 and 1976.
b.   Fuel costs are based on engine-km and reflect the
phasing out of steam traction.
c.   Material costs are based on an estimated acceptable
level of spare parts consumption for rolling stock
and permanent way maintenance and the high unit costs
of locally procured items (66% cf spares are assumed
to be purchased locally). An allowance was also
included in the years 1978, 197S9 and 1980 for deferred
maintenance and heavy accident repairs which are
expected to continue until then.
d.   Contractors.  Higher costs for contractors reflect
the higher level of maintenance to be carried out.
(iii)  Depreciation was calculated on the basis of the estimated
replacement cost of depreciable asset:s.  It amounted to
some 2.8% of asset values excluding Jand in 1978 and is
increased each year to reflect estimated additions.
Taking into account expected future line and station
closures, the amounts are probably aclequate.
(iv)  Interest Charges
Forecast on the basis of: existing debt plus new debt,
including the proposed Bank loan on t:he following terms:
Interest
Repayment Period              %
Internal Financial Institutions  - 5 years plus 1 year grace   -  9
External Financial Institutions    6i years plus 1 year grace   -  9-1/2
Domestic Suppliers                   5 years plus 1 year grace   -  9
Foreign Suppliers                    5 years no grace period      - 12
SERCOBE-Spain                       10 years no grace period      -  7-1/2
Worlcl Bank Loan                    15 years including
3 years grace              -  8
Special Financing                    3 years no grace period      -  9
(b) Balance Sheets
-    Receivables and payables are reduced gradually over the
forecast period as Government accounts are scaled down
and as credit policies of FA are tightened.



- 41 -
-    Fixed assets take into account revised fixed asset
values as of end 1977 plus annual investments proposed
in the investment plan. No allowance was made for line
closure or the scrapping program although adjustments
for these factors could be significant.
5.16      The 1978 income account, based on preliminary figures, is given in
Table 5.3 and is summarized below:
Estimate             Forecast
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982
------------ (US$ million) -------------
Operating revenues                      371       411      444       479       513
Working expenses                        605       622      626       612       622
Operating loss before depreciation    234         211       182      133       109
Depreciation                            122       127       129      135       141
Loss before financial charges           356       338      311       268       250
Financial charges                        20        32       44        51        44
Deficit                                 376       370      355       319       294
Working ratio                           163       151      141       127       121
Operating ratio                         197       182       170      156       149
The working ratio would improve from 192 in 1977 to 121 in 1982 and the operat-
ing ratio from an estimated 197 in 1978 to 149 in 1982. These improvements
are significant but are considered realistic provided that traffic forecasts
materialize. They show clearly how far FA has to go to achieve financial
viability. Because a large part of the investment plan is financed by loans
and credits, financial charges increase significantly between 1978 and 1981 so
that the annual deficits of FA decline only an estimated US$80 million during
the period. It may be that these results can be improved by setting higher
tariffs than those used in the forecasts. In any event, FA should undertake
to adjust its charges for freight, passenger and other services (whenever the
wholesale price index rises by 10% or more since the last tariff increase) to
cover increases in FA's costs or to allow for other factors affecting its
competitive position. Costs of the individual railway services are revised
monthly by FA's costing unit, and these would form the basis for global
adjustments (e.g., a 20% suburban passenger fare increase). Specific costing
studies would be used to adjust the tariff structure from time to time.
5.17      Costs and revenues for the years 1979-1982 were allocated to the
three gauges of FA's system to reflect differences between the basically viable
sections (the broad gauge subsystem) and those which have major uneconomic
sections (the narrow and standard gauge subsystems). The results are sum-
marized in Table 5.7. Average revenue per ton-km of freight varies among
the gauges because of the differences in average haul and the composition
of commodities carried; allowance was made for this on the basis of historical



- 42 -
differences.  There are differences also in revenues per pass-km for suburban
and intercity passenger services but these are relatively minor and are
expected to be virtually eliminated in the future. They have therefore
been ignored. The new operating and working ratios are as follows and are
included as targets to be achieved in the Plan of Action (para 3.14).
1979    1980    1981    1982
Broad Gauge
Working ratio                     137     125      114     109
Operating ratio                   165     151      139     134
Standard Gauge
Working ratio                     174     165      148     137
Operating ratio                   202     190      173     160
Narrow Gauge
Working ratio                     203     203      179     165
Operating ratio                   246     245      220     203
FA as a whole
Working ratio                     151     141      127     121
Operating ratio                   182     170      156     149
5.18      For 1980, operating results were estimated by service and these
are given in Table 5.8. By 1980, both freight and passenger services should
cover marginal costs. Parcel post, baggage and postal services all continue
to lose money. The marginal costs of passenger services are considerably
higher than those shown for 1976, reflecting the higher repair costs of r6lling
stock and permanent way (and, in the case of the narrow gauge, higher fuel
costs). Freight costs are generally lower than those for 1976, reflecting
higher utilization of rolling stock, lower yard costs and more efficient train
operations.
5.19      The cash flow forecast for the years 1978 to 1982 is given in
Table 5.9 and is summarized on the following page. As mentioned in paragraph
5.03, Government financial support to FA averaged some US$340 million annually
from 1974 to 1977. This support was reduced significantly in 1978 to an
estimated US$218 million. The Government required FA to arrange a special
financing locally (repayable in three years with 9% interest) totaling US$96
million equivalent - US$45.5 million for capital expenditures and US$50.5
million to finance part of FA's expected operating deficit for 1978. This,
of course, increased the debt service burden of FA and the total amount of
the Government's eventual financial support to it. The Government and FA
agreed during loan negotiations not to borrow to Einance operating expenses
(para 5,21).
5.20      The contributions of FONIT were estimated by FA from discussions
with the Government; some of FONIT's contributions are for capital investments
(principally permanent way investments) and operal:ing costs of FA (for
permanent way maintenance). The contributions of the Ministry of Economy
are expected to be slightly above the 1978 level in 1979 and then increase
further in 1980 when the Government finances the iotal operating deficits
of FA, including realistic depreciation. With these Government contributions,
the loans and credits already arranged and the proposed Bank loan, some 92%



- 43 -
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
----------- (US$ million)------------
Uses of Funds
Net losses of FA                           376      370     355      319      293
Less:  Depreciation                        122      127     129      135      140
Net losses                                 254      243     226      184      153
Investment Plan                            191      301     389      401      460
Debt payments and advances                  67       46       92     119      102
512     590      707      704     715
Sources of Funds
Loans arranged                             103      129     104       60       76
Special financing                           96        -       -        -       -
Proposed Bank Loan I                         -        7      48       41        -
Other financing to be arranged               -       44      41       43       21
199     180      193     144       97
Sale of railway assets                      12        8       6        7       -
FONIT                                      107      104     109      115      120
Ministry of Economy                        194      222     280      318      266
Special Budget for Suburban
Railway Investments                        -       76     119      120     232
512     590      707     704      715
of total estimated financial needs will be covered in 1979 and 94% in 1980.
FA will have to arrange some US$44 million equivalent of additional financing
in 1979 and US$41 million in 1980. FA is attempting to negotiate such addi-
tional financing through, and with the assistance of, the Central Bank. For
1981 and 1982, a further US$64 million equivalent would be needed and this
could form the basis for a second Bank operation if the present project is
successful. This amount could be increased if items financed through the
special budget for suburban railway investments were financed with Bank funds.
5.21      With the introduction of the proposed program of specific subsidies
by December 31, 1979 (para 5.24) and a general subsidy to cover remaining
operating losses (including depreciation and interest expenses), FA should
generate cash from operations equal to its depreciation provision. The funds
so generated from operations should be sufficient to cover principal repayments
on debt, and this limitation on borrowing was agreed during loan negotiations.
In addition, no borrowing would be done to cover its operating deficits.



- 44 -
5.22      Forecast balance sheets for the years 1978 to 1982 are given in
Table 5.6 and are summarized as follows:
1978      1979       1980       1981      1982
---------------(US$ million)----------------
Current assets                  155        170       170        143        122
Current liabilities             125       139        131        118        110
Net working capital              30         31        39         25         12
Net fixed assets              6,075     6,249      6,510      6,776      7,095
Other assets                     40         30        20         10       -
Total assets            6,145      6,310      6,569     6,811      7,107
Long-term debt                  335       470        572        596       591
Equity                       5,810      5,840      5,997      6,215     6,516
Total liabilities
and equity            6,145      6,310     6,569      6.811      7,107
Debt Equity Ratio              5/95      7/93       9/91       9/91      8/92
As mentioned in paragraph 5.10 preceding, the current asset and current
liability positions of FA depend principally upon measures to reduce Govern-
ment obligations to FA and to changes in FA's credit policies. These measures
were agreed during negotiations. The debt/equity ratio will depend principally
upon the degree of Government support in covering FA's budget deficits and
financing its investment plan, and this was also agreed during negotiations.
D.   Pricing and Subsidy Policies
5.23      At various points in the economic and financial analyses, the
pricing policies of FA and the subsidy policies o: the Government have been
touched upon. These policies were agreed during negotiations; they are
summarized as follows:
(a)  Freight
Freight tariffs for all commodities should cover at least the long
run marginal costs of providing the service. Where this is not
possible within a reasonable period of time, those services
should be discontinued. On those routes and for those commodities
where competition permits, the railway should try to raise tariffs
to levels which would enable FA to cover the total fixed costs
associated with the entire freight servlce. In order to implement
these policies, FA will, from time to time, prepare and furnish
to the Bank marketing studies of the commodities carried by FA.



- 45 -
(b)  Suburban passenger services
Suburban passengers should pay the long-run marginal costs of
this service and a share of the related fixed costs. Achievement of
this goal will depend upon a coordinated pricing policy for all trans-
port modes and the rationalization of the service. These areas will
be reviewed in the study of the suburban railway service included in
the proposed project. From the costing analysis carried out, it
appears likely that prices can cover marginal costs and a share of
the fixed costs, except possibly on the narrow gauge subsystem where
the rationalization of services (e.g., running smaller trains and
increasing occupancy rates) may not solve the problem. If this
service is found to be economic but financially unremunerative, then
a direct Government subsidy will be required. Otherwise the service
should be discontinued.
(c)  Intercity passenger services
Some uneconomic intercity passenger services remain. The study
included in the project should identify them and make recom-
mendations for abandonment. Those not phased out should be
subject to a specific subsidy from the Government equal to the
avoidable costs of such services less the related revenues.
(d)  Other services
As already mentioned (para 2.58), FA has agreed to prepare and
furnish to the Bank, for its review by June 30, 1980, a program
for the elimination of uneconomic parcel, baggage and postal
services.
5.24      The general principle implied in the recommended pricing and subsidy
policy for FA is that general subsidies should be replaced with service-
specific subsidies wherever possible. This would eliminate any disguised
elements in the subsidy and permit the Government to perceive the real costs
associated with its policy. The Government agreed during loan negotiations to
introduce by December 31, 1979 a program of payment of specific subsidies for
uneconomic lines and services which the Government requires to remain in
operation. However, a general subsidy to cover remaining losses and debt
service payments will probably be required for some years, but the object
should be to gradually replace this system with service-specific subsidies.
The longer term objective, of course, is the complete elimination of the
uneconomic services which a rational subsidy system should help to achieve.
E.   Sensitivity Analysis
5.25      A sensitivity analysis was carried out to show the effects of the
following on FA's financial results:
(a) Slower freight growth than forecast (30% less than expected);
(b) Lower tariffs (tariffs 10% lower than in the base case for
freight and passenger services);



- 46 -
(c) Lower personnel costs (3% a year less than forecast compounded);
(d) Lower material costs (20% lower than forecast).
(a) Growth of freight traffic at 30% less than forecast
Operating Ratio
1979       1980      1981       1982
Forecast traffic growth                  182        170        156        149
30% less traffic growth                  182        170        156        149
The effect is negligible since long-run variable costs fall almost as much as
revenues.
(b) 10% lower tariffs (on freight and passenger services)
Operating Ratio
1979      1980       1981       1982
Forecast tariffs                         182        170        156        149
10% lower tariffs                        203        189        173        165
The operating ratio is very sensitive to lower tariffs.
(c) Personnel costs 3% less than expected because of further reductions
or lower salary levels
Operating Ratio
1979      1980       1981       1982
Forecast personnel costs                 182        170       .156        149
3% a year reduction in
personnel costs                        179        165       148        140
(d) Materials costs 20% lower than forecast
Operating Ratio
1979      1980       1981       1982
Forecast malterials costs                182        170        156       149
Materials costs 20% less
than forecast                          176       164         151       144



- 47 -
F.   Conclusion
5.26      The financial results are particularly sensitive to lower tariff
adjustments than expected and to a steadily lower trend of increases in
personnel costs. Lower materials costs also have a direct effect on the
operating ratio, but traffic growth has a more moderate effect as lower revenues
are almost exactly offset by lower operating costs (those which vary directly
with traffic). Strong measures are required to assure that prompt tariff
adjustments are made to recover rapidly increasing costs and to reduce
materials costs.
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government and
FA on the following:
(a) that the small suburban rail services would be discontinued
(para 2.40);
(b) that, by December 31, 1979, FA would prepare and furnish to the
Bank, for its review, a program for the improvement of FA's total
grain transport operations (para 2.46);
(c) that the Government would not object to FA's changing freight
tariffs except where monopolistic practice is evident (para 2.54);
(d) that, by June 30, 1980, FA would prepare and furnish to the Bank,
for its review, a program for the elimination of FA's uneconomic
postal, baggage and parcel post services (para 2.58);
(e) that an agreed program for maintenance of rolling stock and
permanent way would be carried out and the necessary budgetary
allocations would be provided (paras 2.60 and 4.04);
(f) that appropriate changes would be made in accounting for stores
and for depreciation on a revalued fixed asset base (para 2.63);
(g) that copies of FA's ongoing financial and accounting studies would
be submitted to the Bank for comment (para 2.64);
(h)  that an audit by independent external auditors satisfactory to
the Bank would be produced annually within four months of the
end of FA's fiscal year (para 2.65);
(i) that FA would consult with the Bank prior to undertaking
investments exceeding a total of US$10 million per year other
than those included in the project and ongoing categories and
that FA would prepare and furnish to the Bank, by July 1, 1980,
for its review and comment, a program of investments to begin
in the period 1981-1982 (para 3.02);



- 48 -
(j)  that the Government would establish a budget separate from FA's
to finance the Roca electrification project and other suburban
railway investments and related debt service charges and study
alternative financing sources such as affected local governments
(para 3.03);
(k)  that the Government would provide adequate funds required by FA
to carry out the project (para 3.12);
(1)  that the project implementation and procurement schedules would be
adhered to (para 3.13);
(m)  that the Plan of Action would be implemented (para 3.14);
(n)  that, on agreed dates, the following completed studies would be
submitted to the Bank; (i) uneconomic lines and stations, (ii) inter-
city passenger services, (iii) locomotive and rolling stock require-
ments and workshops (iv) manpower, and (v) the suburban rail
master plan (para 3.15);
(o)  that, on agreed dates, the final programs based on the above studies
would be submitted to the Bank in order to revise the Plan of
Action (para 3.15);
(p)  that, by June 30, 1979, all amounts owed to FA by the Government or
any other public corporation would be paid not more than two months
after the provision of such services (para 5.10);
(q)  that, by June 30, 1979, FA would, in its contractual relations with
all users of its services, grant no more than 30 days as the grace
period for the settlement of its accounts without the charging of
an amount for interest and inflation (para 5.10);
(r)  that, by December 31, 1979, FA would revalue its fixed assets in
operation (para 5.13);
(s)  that FA would not borrow to finance its operating deficits and would
limit its borrowing so that principal repayments on debt would not
exceed its depreciation allowance (para 5.21);
(t)  that FA would adjust its freight rates and suburban and intercity
passenger fares to cover the estimated relevant variable costs,
would increase progressively such levels to cover its fixed costs,
where competition permits, and would carry out marketing studies
(para 5.23); and
(u)  that by December 31, 1979, the Government would establish a system
of specific subsidies for uneconomic lines and services which the
Government requires to remain in operation (para 5.24).
6.02       With the agreements and understandings obtained, the proposed project
is suitable for a Bank loan to FA of US$96 million for a period of 15 years,
including three years of grace.
March 14, 1979



ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Modal Composition of Traffic
1965     1966      1967      1968      1969     1970      1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      1976
Passenger Traffic
(million pass-km)
Air                  588       597       799       848      965       988    1,277    1,489    1,483    1,983    2,402    2,307
Road              22,657   23,193   25,312   25,778   27,938   30,182   32,318   33,400   35,467   35,811   34,144   34,784
Rail               6,373    5,981    5,428    6,203    6,154    4,737    4,983    5,243    5,720    6,417    6,890    6,509
Total         29,618   29,771   31,539   32,829   35,057   35,907   38,578   40,132   42,670   44,211   43,436   43,600
Freight Traffic
(million toi3)
(Coastal,
(Shipping    18,854   20,779   21,575   21,160   22,957   24,600   25,282   23,345   18,576   15,587               -         -
Water (
(River
(Transport    5,154    5,188    4,848    5,128    5,209    5,289    4,825    4,800    4,750    4,850               -         -
Air                     118      122       175       214       268      293       335       390       417       524       547       496
Road                35,953   37,947   41,297   41,861   45,160   46,296   49,838   53,338   55,792   54,813   49,915   52,752
Pipelines(petroleum) 1,951    2,445    2,785    3,273    3,793    5,209    6,133    6,826    7,073    6,349    9,289    7,062
Rail                14,186   14,148   11,241   12,709   13,318   13,640   13,654   12,489   12,508   12,357   10,659   10,865
Total         76,216   80,269   81,920   84,344   90,706   95,296  100,188  101,188   99,116   94,481              -         -
Source: FA
July 1978



ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Route and Track Data-/
Classification by Track
Classification by Traffic                 Condition (km)
Route Length (km)         (Gross Tons per Year) (km)             I
In   Closed in    I         II          III          Iv      Vary   II         III    IV
System                Service l9T6t,78n <2 mil  0.8-2 mil  o.4-o.8 mil >0.4 mil  Good  Good           Fair   Bad
Broad Gauge (1.67 meters)  20,656  2,598        6,261   3,454        2,564      8,377    1,808   6,729   8,784  3,335
Roca                       7,032  1,531       2,127   1,820          848      2,237       464   2,515   2,963  1,119
Mitre                      5,636    6oo       1,984     361          473      2,818       428   1,649   1,944  1,466
San Martin                 4,563     62       1,601     833          545      1,584       548   1,670   2,340        5
Sarmiento                  3,425    405         549     440          698      1,738       389     744   1,567    795
Standard Gauge (1.43-m)      2,773    315         529     675          477      1,092       424      906     690    753
(Urquiza)
Narrow Gauge (1.0 m)        10,694  2,714         460   2,90         2,100      5,184    1,122   6,o8l   3,321    220
(Belgrano)
TOTAL                  34,123  5,656      7,250   7,079        5,141      14,653    3,375  13,565  12,825  4,358
l/As of July 1978
Source: FA and Bank Staff
November 1978



- 51 -
TABLE 2.2
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Motive Power and Rolling Stock 1/
Broad   Standard  Narrow
Gauge    Gauge    Gauge          FA
LOCOMOTIVES
Steam                            138      123        420         681
Diesel                           794       65        312       14171
WAGONS
Traffic                       32,589   2,942      15,207      50,738
Service                        3,663      576      1,203       5,442
Vans                             715       85        371       1,171
57,351
DIESEL RAILCARS                        283      64         127       1474
LIECTRIC RAILCARS                      557      96          -         653
COACHES
Traffic                        1,581      137        669       2,387
Service                          467      151        198         816
Vans                             301       36        112         449
3,652
1/ as of December 31, 1977
Source: FA
December 1977



- 52 -                         TABLE 2.3
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAYS PROJECT
Steam Locomotive Scrapping Program
Scrapping Program                       Fleet After Scrapping
1978  1979  1980  1981  1982         1978        1979  1980  1981  1982
Freight
Broad Gauge        -      -         -     -              -  1/       -     -      -      -
Narrow. Gauge     210    -       -     -      -         300
Standard Gauge    50    -       -      -      -          '0          -     -      -      -
Shunting
Broad Gauge        40    40    58    -        -         128           98    58   -       -
Narrow Gauge        -    110    50    50    -           120          210   100   50    -
Standard Gauge    -       50    23    -       -          73           73    23   -      _
Total
Broad Gauge        40    40    58    -        -         138           98    58   -       -
Narrow Gauge       210   110    50    50    -           420          210 31100   50    -
(171) (125)  (80)-
Standard Gauge    50    50    23    -         -         123           73 / 23   -        -
(50) (50)   (50)'
TOTAL             300   200   131    50    -            681          283   123   50    -
1/ These locos will be used for shunting and removed from main line service.
2/ RiPht of which are on the Mitre, 110 on the Roca and 20 on the San Martin.
3/ Figures in parentheses indicate number of locos available in service.
Source: FA
May 1978



ARGENTINA
SE.COND) RAILWAY PROJECT
Diesel Locomotive kogulremen! 
1978                                   1.979                             -- 1 980  -  ----- --1981  -- -----1982
8road     Narrow    SIa Ld.,d          Broad      Narrow      Standard         S t od     Na         Standr              o1       Narrow    Standard          Broold      Narro      Stand,rd
iaago     tGang       Conlgo _          i.st      Gauge       G_nge_           Gangg     Gan1gn      Ga_ge             Gangs      Gauge     Garn1ge           Iasge      Gauge       Gauge_
FREIGHT
Freight -ton-km x 101                  8,286       3,656          786           8,958      3,926           851          9,298       3,985           882         9,891      4,368          984         10,621      4,749        1,083
Operating/Fteight  to-km                 1.04       1.06         1.05            1.04       1.04          1.03           1.04        1.04          1.03          1.04       1.04         1.03           1.004      1.04         1.03
Operatis,g tLon-  n 10                 8,615       3,875          8835          9,316      4,083          076           9,671       4,144           908        10,287      4,543        1,013         11,043      4,938        1,115
Cross/net tons   6                      2.3         2.0          2.2             2.3        2.0           2.2            2.3         2 0           2.2           2.3        2.0          2.2           2.3         2.0          2.2
Gross too-km n 10                     19,814       7,750        t,815          21,427      8,166         1,927         22,241       8,288         1,988        23,660      9,086        2,230         23,406      9,876        2,453
Gross ton/train-kn                     i7030         720          675           1,030        720           675          1,030         720           675         1,030        720          675          1,030        720           675
Train-km x 10                         19,237      10,764        2,689          20,803    11,342          2,855         21,593      11,541         2,960        22,971    12,619         3,303         24,666    13,717         3,634
Loooz-k6s/utasi%-km                      1.15       1.20         1.15            1.15       1.20          1.15           1.15        1.20          1.15          1.15       1.20         1.15           1 15       1.20         1.15
Lono-k,n n 10                         22,122      12,917        3,092          23,923    13,610          3,283         24,812     13,813          3,404        26,417    15,142         3,800         28,366    16,460         4,179
INTERCITY PASSRNGERS
Pass-kn x 106                          3,007         449          460           3,221        372           303          3,211         160           268         3,417         149         268          3,417        147           268
Passonger-  per train                     257        199          114             260        200           190            265         200           236           282         200         236            282        200          236
Train-kii x 10                        11,700       2,258        2,645          12,389      1,860         1,621         12,119       0,801         1,137        12,119       0,746       1,137         12,119      0,737        1,137
L-co-k,m/LraN-k                           1.07      1.14         1.05            1.07       1.14          1.05           1.07        1.14          1.05          1.07        1.14        1.05           1.07       1.14         1.05
Lnrn-k/ x 1 k                         12,519       2,574        1,941          13,256      2,120         1,702         12,967       0,913         1,195        12,967       0,850       1,194         12,967      0,840        1,194
UBUREBAN PASSENGERS
Pass-km x 10                             3,490       775          -             3,524        783           _            3,560         791           -           3,596         799         -            3,632        807           -
Pass per traik6                            381       164          -               385        166           -              389         164           -             392         169         -              323        162          -
Train-km x 10                            9,162     4,728          -             9,162      4,728           -            9,162       4,728                       9 9,162     4,728         -            9,162      4,978           -
Loco-km/trsim kl                          1.02      1.02           -              1.02      1.02           -             1.02        1.02           -            1.02        1.02         -             1.02       1.02           -
Loco-km x 10                             9,345     4,823           -            9,345      4,823           -            9,345       4,823           -           9,345       4,823         -            9,345       5,078          -
_EQUIREMENT1
Freight                                    230       107           27             239        124            30            24a         126            31           264         138          34            284        150            38
Itercity                                  104        23           16              110        19            15            108           8            10           108           8          10            108          8            10
Suburban                                    78        37          -                 75        37           -               72          37           -              70          37         -                69        39
412       167           43             424        180            45            428         171            41           442         183          44             461       197            48
% a-ilability                               63         62          67               68        65            80             72          70            79            73          72          79              75         75           80
Line locos needed in fleet                 654       270           54              623       277            56            594         244            52           605         254          56             615        263           60
Shonting locos needed i"n fleet            116         55           38             116         55           38            116          55            38           116          55           38            116         55           38
Source:  FA and Bank Missiosn
November 1978



TABLE 2.5
- 54 -
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
1 /
Age of Freight Wagons
Total      0-10    11--20    21-30    31-40  Over 40
Number     Years   Years    Years    Years   Years
Broad Gauge                    34,169      6,024   2,801    4,870       704    19,770
Standard Gauge                  3,197        317     197       203       30     2,450
Narrow Gauge                   17,200      1,858     200       769      289    14,084
FA                             54,566      8,199   3,198    5,842   1,023.   36,304
1/ as of December 31, 1977
Source: FA
December 1977



TABLE 2. 6
_N  C                               o 7                               o 
O aqWN-  N            1oR             o               |Rl
Ul  0  w 71 n 7 7 4 O ON 
C   O      1   1N O. -<  0o  N                 0.00t0 a        I
CI  N     ON N 1          ( N       N           .0NN1
O G I   g N            1         
NII                        iI     
N:~          N              I                      -              1
N   ~            (  N  C N7|_                                          
OGI                                  N            NO
N N1 
N        v    j                                   -            N   N1~ |  N <     '    N
a              N.N                  N  11     
\    C' I         N   C   O|       ~     1          -  I     
|   jNj |. 0                                                           N                           
N11                           11 ON  ION N
C c0   ON       N  0 a      0    1    ~ RO   N0                 G N
81 ~  ~     ~     N   N    11S        0    N  10 ONI o I   I
!         NU GI  V             NN G                       N   90   N      
999 -N                                         NO      G IE    {j l l>



TA4BLE 2.y7
- 59 -                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~PageSI of?2
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic Statistics
(1973-1977)
YEAR 1973
Bo                                        N0                                     S0                                       TOTAL
PRODUCT                                    Averge         t-kxs            t         Average        t-km           C        A-e-ge           t-hes          C         Average        t-1h
(0007       HaulC1                      (000)         Rau.(.         n           (000)       Haul(so                     (900)         Hau.l           (s)
Livetock                               355           447         139             s0            407          33           121          465           36           556            445         249
Core                                 1,539           254~        391            163            202          33            45          198             9        1,749             248        433
W,.heat                              1,614           307         496             41            311          15           i11           543           61        1,767             323        570
Sorghto                                694           403        356              69            333          23            15          363             3          974            394         384
Vrrotahis  111  Seeds                  200           367          77             13            632          10             3           559            1          217            406          56
Other   rai-s                          340           378         129             24            535          13            24          393             9          369            369         131
Clteo   Oris1,120                                                 .1             10          1,369          14           159           661         103           169             705        119
Fresh Orsite                             13        1,013          10               2           651           2            12           563            7            24            752         15
Vegetables                                5          939           3                         1,311           1            -             -                           6            970           6
Potatoe                                 21           999          21              3          1,229           3             4           770            3           28            998          29
Sugar                                  371         1,092         742            704          1,246        079              0           920           .0          926          1,210      1,122
Wtar                                   104         1,040         526            122          1,051         13S            -            -                         623          0,045         656
Elou                                  1103           750          79             33          1,367          73            22           635           03          101             919        166
Combussihlr  1lerl                      41           933         132             21          1,373          30             1           11.1                      164             983        162
Os---sd                                 42           632          27             73          1,083          90             7           618            5          124            900         112
Char-al                                  21          961          20            114            736          06            -            -                          135            796        107
Other Fores    rodorts                  49           6021         30            353          1,233         436           199        1,123          223           653          1,146         691
Vebirles                      ~~~         ~~~~         ~~59  933  56    6          1,531           7             2          931             2           66            942          63
Lize                                   240           636         133             99            010          81             0        1,160            .1          340             690        235
Ce-rt                                1,00)9          4~77       491              65            579          38             6          616            4         1,001            464         323
Oalt                                   469           706         331             36            561          20             a          904            .1          505             696        352
Li,-srt..                              426           910         392            232            620         1144            -            -             0          639             813        536
store                                  431           446         192            164            492          61            31          369           12           627            454         295
Other  P0ar1 rd-rts                    225           933         215            416            509        337              6          339             2          653            648         554
louSf     rdot                         301           345        133             135         1,221         165              5          603            3           327            372         302
pot-l-s                              1,403           046      _ 247          1,336             394        524              5          365            .1       2,803             632      1,771
Orruole-  Prod-rts                   1,079           689      1,196             136            6023         94            36          553           32         1,693            791      1,523
Fathages                               926           633        774             447          1,049        469           231           779          105         1,607            683      1,423
Sth-r  8rdrt6                                        467          40             59            676          45            19          460             9          164             544         09
Total                              13,296            599      7,912          3,057             772      3,664         1,094            667         741       19,577              646    12,320
YEAR 1974
Li-et-rk                               231           479         110             38            430          86            90          451            36          350            465         16
Oars                       3.~~~~~~~~2203   266        567             120            2053         35            49          216           15         2,443            261         637
llheat                      I ~~~~    ~    ~~~,9t13  352  592           39            502          20            24          205             8        1,006             310        622
S-eghte                              1.109           362        415              66            0008         06            40           212            9        1,256            331         441
Vegetaie  sOtl Seeds                   175           365          64             31            535          17             1           163           .2          206             389         91
Other Griai                            019           415          91             13            639           6            19           622           12          251            443         112
Citrus Fruits                             0          953          .1              4o           973           4           144           647           93          145             636         97
Fresh Feuits                            22           915          21              5          1,346           7            20           614           1246                        827         40
Vegetables                                a        1,062           6               0           725          .1            (K           -              5             6         1,927            6
Potatoas                                53           609          32              1          1,134           2             5          656            4            60             642         39
Osga-                                  729         1,091         253            609          1,242         757             0        1,176             1          639          1,201      1.006
lice                                   396         1,040         617            133          1,061         144             -          -               0          722          1,049         757
Flour                                  166           902          65             44          1,250          55            20           676           14          170             905        134
Cb,shutihle  herl                      111           061          96             26          1,369          36             3           242            1          141             941        1533
Tlre--d                                 42           617          26             53          1,004          57             5           620            4          100            661          67
Oharroa                                  15          945          1-5            03            675          57(C                        -             0          152             706         72
Other Foror Produrts                    43           994          43            266          1,200         346           236        1,102          267           366          1,156         657
Vehirle-                                49           940          49              4          1,313           6             2           739            2            57            963         35
Li.e                                   245           649         159             75            611          61             0           550           .1          321             667        221
C-tee                                  9i7           524         507             28            612          17             4           511            3        1,000             526        526
salt                                   456           709         324             21            516          11             1           326            1          479             699        333
Li-sat-s                               400           959         370            243            939         230             -            -             0          632             920        691
stose                                  399           572         149            135            503          68            61           303           19          396             394        235
Other Hi.ecal Pradu-ts                 062         1,006         207            414            672         341             3           725            2          700             961        631
Sletal Frodurts                        402           34,4        10~2           101          1,273         196                         7915                      3259                       27
Petteole-                            1,011           826      1,901          1,435             406         302             -            -             0        2,646            396      1,563
?et-1l-a  Produss                    1.330           614      1,065             124            6908         76            29           520           13        1,462             791     1,156
P-kages                                 71           477          34             47            671          32            17          486             6          135             546         74
Other Prodect                          922           615         791            347          1,069         572           265          625          219         1,5333            674      1,342
.tarl                              13,673            560      7,605          4,507             764      3,302         1,066.1          701         747        19,5331            622    1,4
YEAR 1975
Li-at-kI                               473           483         229             47            444          21            95          400            36          616            467         166
C.r.                                 1,461           246         362            190            556          06            59           359           21        1,621             251        407
Wheat                                1,744           359         539             57            515          29            10           206            2        1,614             313        571
S-rg-s                                 954           393        353              46            335          16            14          531             3          967            368         373
VgtbeOil SdreS                    75           396          55             15            755          102                       -              091                        461          42
Orhrr Ooic                             157           453          71             11            576           7            20           563           13          169            472          899
it-ru   S-tatc                                     1,305           0              4          1,564           6            09           666           60           94             700         66
Freh Frulrs                              23          937          22              6            646           4            36           669           25            65            772         51
Vegetchles                                7        1,107           6               I           019           10                         74           .1             8         1,060            9
Potatoes                                  r        1,155           7              0         2,113            12                     1,033             3             9         1,152          11
Sugar                                  175           994         175            456          1.307         597           --                           0          632          1,220         771
lOOse                        ~~~~       ~~~~~~628  1,056  664         130          1,084         142           --                           0           759         1,061         606
Flou                                   116           772          99             31            961          31            19           692           14          167             802        135
Combustible   isrl                      66           873          50             31          1.382          29             2           263           .4           90             976         66
Firewood                                55           624          22             61          1,549          65             6           613            4          104             875         91
Charcoa                                  14          930          13            100            666          69           --                           0          114             719         62
Other  Forest Prdutrs                   62           584          55            266          1,161         310           296        1,144          238           337          1,122         6033
V.hi,les                                37           660          32               7         1,521          12             2           855            2            47            966         46
Lime                                   169           605         115             62            663          71             9            50           .1          272             683        1866
C--ner                                 612           547        441              25            516          13             2           379            1          849             541        454
Salt                                   476           772         569             25            423          11             2           344            1          505             731        360
Liosee...                              304           696         273            207            007         164           --0                                     312            692         437
Sro.es                                 396           403         160             76            561          43            72           549           25          545             416        226
Other Niceral Products                 261           965         256            417            760         325            71           997           21           699            662        693
-te1 Pr-dusts                          341           355         121             02          1,101          91             6           345            2          430             497        214
Fct-ol-t                             1,015           770         762         1,156             396        459            -                                     2,173             371      1,240
Peteol-se  Ptod-rs                   1,112           729         610            126            672          06            34           650           22        1,274             721        916
P-khag-                                  76          463          55             46            671          31            16           403            6           139            532          74
Other Products                         645           021         694            316          1,010         321           266           911         216         1,429             661      1,231
Total                              11,627            574      6,796          3,936             763      3,013            990           723          716       16,756             628    19,518



- 57 -                                                                      TABLE 2.7
Page 2 of 2
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic Statistics
(1973-1977)
YEAR 1976
BG                                    NG                                 SG                                   TOTAL
PRODUCT                        t       Average       t-ku            t        Average       t-km          t       Average        t-km          t        Average       t-km
(000)      Haul          (e)          (000)       Haul          (m)        (000)      Haul           (T.)      (000)        Haul          (M)
Livestock                           544         497        270            60          461         29          130         447          59         735           487       358
Ctut                             1,601          244        390          101           228         23           72         199          14       1,773           241       427
Wheat                            2,204          252        556            85          361         31           31         247           8       2,320           256        595
So,rghuo                         1,185          541        642          126           425         54          62          335          21       1,374           521       716
Vegetable Oil Seeds                  88         377         33             7          568          4            0         175           0           95          390         37
Other Grain                          73         480         35            11          541          6          14          417           6          98           478        47
Citrus Fruits                        .1         831         .1             5        1,143          6         110          618          68         116           643        75
Fresh Fruits                         36       1,032         37            11          543          6           22         612          14          69           819         57
Vegetables                           10       1,109         11             2        1,366          3            1         438           1           13        1,090         15
Potatoes                              9       1,231         11             1        1,304          1            2         981           2          12         1,190         15
Sugar                               220         989        218          601         1,216        731            0        -              0         822         1,155       949
Wine                                632       1,049        663           124        1,064        132            0        -              0          756        1,052        795
Flour                               111         758         84           40         1,128         45           21         630          13         172           827       142
Combustible Minerals                 96         915         87            16        1,246         20           4          194           1         116           935        109
Firewood                             28         620         17            70        1,057         74            5         516           3         103           910         94
Charceal                             12         906         11            72          784         56            0          -            0          83           801         67
Other Foreet   Products              61       1,030         63          294         1,138        335         166        1,186         197         521         1,141       594
Vehicles                             31         763         24             6        1,443          9            3       1,038           3          40           889         36
Lire                                177         649        115           100          814         82           .4         369          .1         277           708        196
Cement                              981         551        540            29          600         17            3         446           2       1,013           552        559
Salt                               452          809        365            34          586         20            2         560           1         488           792        386
Limestoro                          431          906        391           232          962        223            0        -              0         663           925        614
Stones                             291          493        144          196           487         95           65         360          23         552           475       262
Other Mineral Products              190       1,042        198           390          880        343           36       1,007          36         616           937        577
Metal Products                      252         431        109            85        1,336        114            3         431           1          340          658        224
Petroleum                          992          685        679          295           259         76            0        -              0       1,287           587       755
Petroleum Products               1,033          750        775          128           686         88          51          708          36       1,213           741        899
Packages                             55         395         22           32         1,012         33          14          516           7         102           609         62
Other Products                     851          801        682          317         1,016        322         251          797         200       1,419           849     1,204
Total                           12,646          567      7,172        3,470           858      2,978       1,068          668         715      17,188           632   10,866
YEAR 1977
Livestock                           291         487        141            54          499         27         148          393          58         493           460        226
Core                             2,336          211       494            255          210         53           72         175          13       2,663           210        560
wheat                            2,850           261       744           105           315        33           28         174           5       2,983           262        782
SorghvO                          1,354          360       488           269           400        107          27          205           6       1,650           364       601
Vegetable Oil Seeds                  43         425         18             7           652         4            0         170           0           49          455         23
Other Grain                         122         363         44            16          513          8           31         297           9         169           365         62
Citrus Fruits                         0        -             0             5          976          5           92         620          58           97          644         63
Fresh Fruits                         10       1,123         11             5          749          4           12         631           8           27          833         23
Vegetables                            2       1,062          2             2          888          2           .6         846          .5            5          959          5
Potatoes                              4       1,184          5            .5          525         .3            5         789           4          10           951          9
Sugar                              311        1,002        311          780         1,215        949            0         600           0       1,091         1,155     1,260
Wine                                627       1,073        672           128        1,064        136            0        -              0          755        1,071        809
Flour                               100         781         78            56        1,379         78           18         619          11         175           956        168
Combustible Minerals                133         930        125           2.4        1,275        3.1            1         201          .2         137           938        128
Firewood                             21         645         14            62        1,126         70            6         607         3.6          89           977         87
Chercoal                              7         973          6            81          668         54            0        -              0          88           691         61
Other Forest   Prodocts              38       1,053         41          243         1,208        294         140        1,160         162         421         1,178       496
Vehicles                             32         761         24           4.6        1,258        5.8            4       1,012           4          40           844         34
Lime                                201         581        117           107          832         89           .2         421          .1         308           668        206
Cement                           1,091          548        598            23          529         12           10         452           5       1,125           547        615
Silt                               397          841        334            37          693         26            1         440          .5         435           827       360
Lir.csto-t                          306         946        290           284          705        200            0         800           0         590           830       490
Stones                             469          449        211          358           392        140          98          279          27         925           409       379
Other Mineral Products             214          963        206          457           689        315          62        1,027          64         734           798       585
Metal Products                      364         378        138            83        1,353        112           10         421           4         457           556        254
Petroleum                          964          631        608          344           353        121           0         -              0       1,308           557       729
Petroleum  Products              1,322          811     1,072            183          692        127          52          675          35       1,558           792    1,234
Packages                            52          515         27           31           726         23          16          548           9          99           587        56
Other Products                      733         840        633          331         1,089        361         217          739         160       1,301           887     1,153
Total                           14,415           517     7,452        4,313            779    3,359        1,051          614         646      19,782           579   11,460
Sourc;: FA
July 1978



H  OHZOOOHOOHOHHLOH HocDo-SCOOICCO             H
o  C-CC-DO 0C-CCC00000000  00C-000CbO 000           HO          tCC0H  OOOH.CC-COHCOHCC 0    DC 0-SoO OCOC-CrOCO C-C OC-C00CDHO -d HC0OH0 C-C
O  HOC,o0-C00C- S OooOOooooHoooOCDO<              H-C-CO-C050              000C0C-C OOHOo      0 OC'CDbC-CC-CC000C-CZO-OC--"O00          00
DC  OOOCD0CDCCCDCD0  00   000000000000         0              OSOHOCOOo CDHC--CHDC-CHH0CDOS    CO HCOC0C-CHOOSHH000000C-OOOCOHOOOCCS
CD0CDD00000C-00000000000000CCC-D             H O0000000000000C000 OO0OCDC-000C-D
-  00000CDCD  0 00000 OCOHOOOC-C-CCD           - 000-000  C-C- 0000  oooC-CZooC-oHC-.o   ,-H 0000CCCDD  0 00000CC  0nC-CH 000000
000     00      0               C-0   000C   Hoo        00  CC OC              C-"OOCOC-OC--000         00  0
HO 000  0    00100CC      000  OH      0         wo-Z  0    OHOOCC    00-Ct oHS    0           0C-D000  0    00OO-C      000  OCHi   0
cOC-       0C0C00O     0                      0000-0      CC-C-000--           0550C-         OOC0. -    0000C-        0
CD   0     CDO0OCD     H       00000-0          0   H      00000       H        O,-   o         --a         00000      H
0.  0.0        0    0      00-00-              0.   00       CD    o      dC-C-Co-C       0   0.   0.0       CD           000,
g   0         0   0         0000              00  00          0   CD        CC-COO        0   00  SO          0              COOP           H
C-CO  COO           0         DC   C-C         "0
0  -         0C  C-CO    C-C         CC-       o  -           0
00.   CC       0                               00.   CD        H    0                          00.   0         -CO                           H
0             0   0                            0    -CO       0   0                      C-C  CC    H         C-C  0                       H
o             C   o                            CD   o         0   0                      0     0    0         0   o             CD         C-C
0         0.  Ct                               0         0.   0                      o     -  0         0.   0            CD          H
CD  0.        0   0                           0    0-        0   0                      0     0    0.        0                0.
0         0   0-                               0         0    -                      0         0         0
0             C                      0OCCC     H                                              -"   -          C-                      - H
H OH       CC-HHOO      H OHHHC0C0HC-O         H 0CC-C     HC-OHoH      - OHHH-C-C-COHOOH       0-C OH     H  O,0HC    0
H  -"OH-COO HHHHHOo  C-0OC---COH  0-C OCOCOOH    CO HOHHHHOOHHOH  OHOHHH          -C0C-0C0C-0H   OH  OH HO0CHHH OC-HH- -P-O-HH     UCOC--C0C-0-C0  0-0
H HOHHOCOHHHHO-CHUCH-CC-H CO-OHHC---C-CH OCHHHO  H OUCH OCOOOOO 00H0C-HHOOOH-J C  -C-0HHC--C  --CH HOHO HHC-CC-OHOHO OC-CC-HHHOO,--C Hi HOHHOI   0
- -       --                                             OC-C          0             0         -          C-0    OHOC-C0               C-C->
H HHOHOHOHH-.CHOOCOHOOHOC---C  OHOHH CC-    H HHOH0000HOHHHOCCOOOOHOo  OHHHH H   OH  HH000-OOH  HHHHH-CC--C--CO HHHO  000CHH H   0<
-OH-C-DHHHOHH 0C-cOHOHOH H HOC-OH  HH0OHH      OHHOOHHHH NCOOCHHOCHHOOOCOH  OH HHOH   OH  HHOHO0HHO -O0C-HHOCOHHOOOH  H-C-HOC-C-C  00  H
HHHC-HHHH OHHOHC--C-OO0C--CH CC--C--CC oH-OOH--C    HHC-0H0400H-C-C HHOOHo-COO OHH,-C-CC-C -HHUC-HC-    OHHO-CHHHH HHOHOoOOOO OC--0C0H 0-HH---D  00  0
0-                                              C--CO
H                                                                                             o-.,                                              H
0                                                 0
H -CC--      000       HHHHO0HOH 0C-         H OCH       0 C-JCHH    OH  UC- HUCCHOHO            OH       0  OHO     OC
H -CO-COCOHHHC-O 0-C-C-CC--CCHHC---C HOUC OH  H-.C-.DC-OHH    H HHCOOHHC---CH OHHH   HO HHH  HOHOHO   OH  0-OCHO 0-CHHOH0-C- -H OHH  HOHOCC-0
OHOCHOHO OCOCOHO OHOHOHOOHO -C OOHOCCC-H       H HOHOC-O OHHHHC-0C-0HH0OUCHH 0CC 0HHHO H   COO 0-CO HHHHHC--COHH OOC-CC.CCHHOHHC  HH0CO   C--S
0-                             -  .  -          0
0                                              H                                               H                                                            H
0  HOC-CO 000   H HC--    00         HoC--     H HHH  0HH   0 00           0         000       OHHHHH0                    -O         --C 0    0            0  CO
H 0000 0H00H    HC-OH  HOH        HHOCCOOH    C-DC HOHHHHOHCaO  - OHHoH           OOHHOH       0 H00000000   OCDCO HOH             OOHOHH   Ho             00 0
H  00CC-OC-OOHHHHCO OC--"--CHOHC-Oo C HHHHHOOOC-O  H HHHC-CHoOOHOOHOOHHHHC H OHOHO CO-COO   C-- HHC-HOHHOH OOHH HHHOC-- C --LC-00-HHHH   H                  H 0
-                            -            C-C  6
H                                               H  H                o            o                       H  C--C  C--C
H                                               H                                                        CO   CO   H
500000
0                -   -          -C--o-0C--C  H              0    00-CO  o6   C-A
O  OOHHHC< HHHHHoHoHHOO  COHO OOCHHH 0 C-O 0 0 OHHHOHH0OHC--COC-HHOH  C-OHHOOOOHO  COHHOHC-C-COHHHHHHHOHHOH  0-C-OHOHHH-C--C  COO  0 0 CO 0  00    0
H HHHHHHO OHOOCOHO H Hoo HHHHHHOH CO 0 0 HCJCHHC-CC- HO HHHOHCOH H 000 HHOHHH HO'c HC0 HOOHO 00 OHOOHOUC-000- OHOOHOHO 0 00 0 H 0 0 HO
H  CC-COOHHO-CHO HOC0OHH 0000 C HOHHOHOOCO  HHHC-OHHH OOOCHUC-C-0C--C-HOHOOC HHHHOHHOC-c  0-C-C- 0C-OOOH 000 HOC-- CC-HO 0C-0C-0OC- HO OHOHOO -CO  00  H H      C-C-C   C
-0     100-C   C-C   H
o                                              H                                                                                                0      -   0  H
0            0
OOHOoHOHHC-- 0  OC-HO OHO          --C-C-HOHo    0 OHOCOC300HC--0  000  H0H      0-0000       -CC HHOC-OHOHH  0 HHO  000'         HoOOO-C  -C-C-C-C H
CO OCcH0oOoH OHOC-HOC-OH00 CO C- OOHHHHHOCH    0 OHHHH0H OHHHOOH 0000-C- HOHOOO CC-OH    0 OHHO000HHOO OHooOH-j C 0000000C-CO    0-0
O             0 H    0         00              0
CO        OHCOOOHHH          0 00   HO   0   H            - HC0H  ooOO       0 -COo  OH   C-  0              0-COO  - 0-0   0
0 0CC-C- -C OHHC-H0CHHCoCH C- C- 00000 C 0000  0 HOC-HO- C- C- OCO COO Co C-H-C C 00000 C- 0CC-COO    0 HOC- OCUC-C-O C C-0C00CC-HC-COO COO C- 0000   00
0       00                                     -C       -C-C                           0-C
O  HO  000  0000  OHHC-OOC-OC-HHoHH            0 00  000  00  00  0 0   H00 OH  HoOH           H HO  OoH  0000  00    HC-0000  0000   H-CC- CC
H  oH  000  00  00  0 0   00000  0-COoCO    H HO  000  OH  HO  0 0   00000  000,0              0 HO  00,0  0 HoooO           00000  0,00-CO   00
O HOC HoOC- HOC- 0-CC-C- OC- OC -CO 0HC--0-C-0000  0 HOC- OHOC OHCHOC- OC- 0CC 0 OHOHCH0HH     H HOC- HOOC- OH-C P-CHCHC-CC-C-C-00000C-H0--C-CHH   cC-C-
0                                               0
0 HOC H0HCHOCH0CC- C-HC- C- 00000 C- HHO       0 00C-HH0C HOC HOC-  C-C-CC- 0000CC- HOHO    CC- HOC OHC--CCC0HC-o0C-0C-0C-C0HHH-H000-C-C
H   0 H    oH                                                                                                 0 H       0   000               0
OHOOHO 00CC-HO  C0 Ho0OC-    OHOOOC-HH         H HOOHOHOOHO  Ho- H-HO            000-COOH      HO0OHoHOOH0   0000               C-H  0000   0CC
O OOHH0OH0HHOH0HOOOHOOO OHOHHC-O0    0 00000 COOHHC--HHOOO 0000  HOHO HoHO                     - 000000 000oH 0000 0-o   oHOHo 0C0    H
H HOoo0H 000000 O0C--C0H0000000000             0 OHHHOH 000000000 C-OCOOHC-0HH0000    OOHOHHOH 00000C-OHOoOOOHOHHOOHOO   0-                                          OH
000000                          H
0 00000000  OO0000OoO OHOHOHOHO               H 0HH00000  OOC-CHOoOOoOOOO 000000              H 00000000  OHoHOOOO000-C-C-CC-0 OHOCQO 0   0-0  H                    0-
O oooooooooooHoo 00000000000000                H ooOoooooooooooo-C 0000000 OCOHOHO             0 000000000 0oHOo 00000000000 C-o  00  0                             CC-H
0 00-0-00< 00000-HO 000000000 Oo-oOC--0    0 OH-HOoHHHoO-HO O00000C-CC00000000    0-C OHHHOC--COHHoOHH 0000 OooOOOOoH  0   00  CC-
0                                                                                               OC-
O  0                                           0 0                        0                   0 0-                                           5
O HHHHO000  H 00          oC      - 0000       0 oC---OooOC-C-C-o00--C    C-Ce    - 0000       0 OooooHooo  H             00       0  H00   C--C-
0 OooOOO 0oH0H0OOC0Oo--C0-CH0 000000    C-C -000 OOOHOHOC-O0000HOHHHH00000                    0HC-C--000000-HHHOH 000   0000000>    -
0000000 OHC--HOHOO C-0o00O0-C-0C0O00         HHC--COHC-C0H 00000000-0000000 OHOO0H           0 HCOCOHOHOH 0000000 OOoHOO-CH-C--C0000C.C-
0             0  0   HOC-O  0C-0               0



TA3LE 2.8
Page 2 of 2
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic Forenssts
(1978-1983)
YEAR 1981
lBG                                  NG                                 SG                                   TOTAL
PRODUCT                       t       Average      t-km             t       Avrage         t-k           t       A-erge         t-ko         t        Average       t-km
(OD0)      Hoc!       rillio-        (ODD)       hal         million      (O00)      Haul          million     (000)        DouG       nillion
Livestock                               147       487            71            21        499             10        69        393              21          237       453          10l
Corn                                  2,334        242          565           160        236             42        51        217              EL       2,565        241          618
Wheat                                 2,700        285           770          170        344             60        29         194               6      2,904        288          836
Sorghur                               1,914        384          735           215        427             92        21        217               0       2,150        387          832
Vegetable Oil                            215       373           80            27        576             I6         -           -              -          242       390           96
Other Grains                             312       451          140            38        632             24        30        361              11          381       460          175
Citrua F-rits                              -         -             -            7      1,80Q              7        93        141              60         100        672           67
Fresh Fruits                              12    1,131            14             9        773              7        32        667              21           53       788           42
Vegetables                                 5    1,091              6            4        933              3         1        909                1          10    1,025            10
Potatoes                                  66    1,200            79             -          -              -        32        795              25          98    1,065            104
Sugar                                   242    1,000            242           655      1,216            797         -           -              -         897    1,158          1,039
Wine                                     776    1,054           817           182      1,050            191         -           -               -         9S8    1,054         1,010
Gloat                                     62       720           45            32      1,246             10         7        056               4         101        680           89
Combustible Mimerala                    407        949          386             4      1,306              5         -                          -         411        160           66
Fire-ood                                   5.7    661             3.8          17.8   1,153              20.5       0.5      623               0.3         24    1,018            24
Charcoal                                  15    1,000            15           235        687            162         -           -              -         250        707          177
Other Forest Products                     53    1,050           5            266      1,176            313       213      1,137             242         532    1,147            610
Vehieles                                  36       766           27             7      1,261              9         2      1,024               2          45        854           38
Lime                                     264       598          158           124        855            106         -           -               -        388        681          26.
Ceeo-t                                1,393        540          752            29        524             15        14        447               6       1,436         52           75
Salt                                    457        837          392            40        706             26         5        500               3         502        842          423
Limestone                                631    1,022           645           386        760            294         -           -               -      1,017        923          939
Sto-es                                  556       463           257           244        406             99       311        290              90       1,111       401           446
Other Mineral Prod-cts                  230    1,054            242           548        757            414       106      1,125             119          884       875          774
Metal Prodocts                          429        371          160           103      1,330            137        11        422                5         543       557          302
Petr-leum                               782       508           397           289        285             82         -           -              -       1,071        447          479
Petroleum Praduccs                    1,338        772        1,032           202        659            133        16        640              10       1,556        755        1,175
Othar Produnts                          787        832          654           446      1,075            479       252        732             185       1,485       868         1,318
Total                                16,168.7    540.5        8,739.8      4,485.8       799.3        3,585.5  1,295.5       643.2           833.3   21,951         552.9    12,136
YEAR 1982
L_vestack                                123       487            60           18        499              9        58        393              22          199       458            91
Corn                                  2,579        242          624           198        236             46        57        217              13       2,835        241          683
NIt:eat                                2,955       285           843          191        344             66        31         194               6       3,177       288           915
So-ghun                               2,333        384          895           262        427            112        26        217               7       2,621        387        1,014
Vegetable Oil                            235       373           87            29        576             17         -           -               -         264       396          104
Other Graina                            436        451          197            53        632             33        43        361              15          532       460          245
Ctccus Fruits                                        -             -            7      1,000              7        93        641              60          100       672           67
tresh Fruits                              12    1,151            14            10        770              7        34        667              23           56       788           44
Vegetables                                 5    1,091              5            4        933              4          1       909               1           10    1,025             10
Potatoes                                 95    1,200            114             -          -              -        47        795              37          142    1,065           151
Sugar                                   247    1,000            247           669      1,211            810         -          -               -         916    1,158          1,061
Wine                                     832    1,054           877           195      1,050            205          -                          -       1,027     1,054        1,082
Flout                                     62       720           45            32      1,246             40         7        556               4          101       880           89
Combustil>le Minerals                   416        141          395             4      1,306              5         -           -              -         420        160           67
Firewood                                   4.1    661             3            12.6   1,153              14         0.3      12i               D           17    1,OIS            07
Cha-acol                                  17    1,000            17           273        687            168         -           -              -         290        707          205
Other Fotent Products                     8    1,050             61           291      1,176            342       233      3,137             265         582    1,147            669
Vehicles                                  39       766           30             7      1,261              9         2      1,024               2           48       854           41
L.ne                                    275        598          164           130        855            111         -           -              -         405        681          276
Ctenat                                1,454       540           785            30        524             16        10        447               7       1,499         52           7S
Salt                                    463       857           397            41        706             29         5        500               3         509        842          429
Lines tone                              676     1,022           694          415         760            315         -          -               -       1,093        923        1,009
Stones                                  607       463           281           267        406            158       340        290              98       1,214       401           4S7
Other M+ineral Produets                256    1,054            270           609        757           461        118      1,125             132         983        875          860
Metal Prodocts                          486        371          180           117      1,330            156        12        422               5          615       557          342
Petroleum                               782       508           397           289        285             82         -                          -       1,071       447           479
Petroleum Products                    1,385       772         1,069           209        659            138        16        640              10       1,611       755         1,216
Other ProAunts                          857       832           713          485       1,075            521       275        732             202       1,617       888         1,436
Total                                17,691.1    534.9        9,464        4,847.6       794.4        3,651    1,413.3       646.0           913      23,954        549.6    13,166
YEAR 1983
Livestock                                100       487           48            15        499              8        47        393              18         162       458            74.
Cerm                                  2,826        242          684           217        236             51        62        217              13       3,105        241          748
'Wheat                                3,209        285          915           207        344             71        35        194               7       3,451        288          993
Sorghum                               2,752        384        1,057           309        427            132        31        217               7       3,092       387         1,196
Vegetable Oil                            255       373           95            32        576             18         -           -               -        287        396          113
Other Grains                            560       451           253            68        632             43        55        361              20         683       460           316
Citrus Fr-uit                              -         -             -            7      1,000              7        93        641              60          100       672           67
Fresh Fruits                              13    1,151            15            10        770              8        37        667              25           60       788           48
Vegetables                                 5    1,091              6            4        933              4         1        909               1           10    1,025             10
Potatoee                                121    1,200            145             -          -              -        60        795              48         181    1,065            193
Sugar                                   252    1,000            252           683      1,216            631         -          -               -         935    1,156          1,063
Wine                                     889    1,054           937           208      1,050            218         -           -               -      1,097      1,054        1,155
Flour                                     62       720           45            32      1,246             40         7        556               4         101        880           89
Cob-ustible Minera]s                    426        149           63             4      1,306              5         -           -              -         430        160           68
irewood                                    2       661            1.3           9      1,153             10.4       1        623                 .6        12    1,018            12.3
Charcoal                                  20    1,000            20           310        687            213         -           -              -         330        707          233
Other Forest Products                     63    1,050            66           317      1,176            373       253      1,137             288         633    1,147            727
Vehicles                                 40        766           31             8      1,261             10         2      1,024               2          50       854            43
Lim                                     287        598          172           135        855            115         -           -              -         422        681          287
Cement                                1,515         40           61            31        524             16        16        447               7       1,562         52           84
Salt                                    470       857           403            41        706             29         5        500               3         516       842           435
Limestone                                725    1,022           741           445        760            336                     -              -       1,170        923        1,079
Stones                                  659       463           305           290        406            118       369        290             107       1,518       401           530
Other Mi-eral Products                   278    1,054           293           663        757            502       128      1,125             144       1,069       875           939
Metal Products                           543       371          201           130      1,330            173        14        422               6          687       557          360
Petroleu                                782        506          397           289        265             82         -          -               -       1,071       447           479
Petroieum Froducon                   1,434       772         1,107           217        608            143        16        640              10       1,667       755         1,260
Other Products                          926        832          770          .525      1,075            564       297        732             217       1,748       888         1,551
Total                                19,214       472.7       9,083.3      5,206         791.9       4,122.4  1,529          545,9           987.6   25,949        546.9   .14,192.3
Sutce: FA and Bank Staff
PFeruary 1979



ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Fqrecasts of National Production of Commodities Used to Forecast Railway Traffic
(000 tons)
Product                      1a7fJ77      1978        1979        1980        1901       1962       1983
Livestock                      5,807      9,423       9,770      10,346      10,601     10,759    11,029
Corn                           8,300      8,655       8,836       9,019       9,206      9,396      9,588
Wheat                         11,000       8,o45      8,206       8,364       8,518      8,670      8,819
Sorgum                         6,600       5,999      6,374       6,755       7,1143     7,539      7,940
Vegetable Oil Seeds              900         978      1,005       1,033       1,061      1,089      1,118
Other Grains                   3,636      2,840       2,850       2,860       2,870      2,880      2,891
Soy Bean                         -        1,181       1,399       1,628       1,873      2,136      2,420
Citrus Fruits                 1,484       1,492       1,603       1,685       1,789      1,851      1,937
Fresh Fruits                   2,158      2,146       2,217       2,291       2,369      2,449      2,525
Sugar                         1,46o       1,450       1,470       1,490       1,511      1,532      1,554
Wine                          21,748     22,900      23,215      23,543      23,958    24,286    24,620
Flour                          2,616      2,789       2,834       2,879       2,924      2,969      3,014
Combustible Minerals           1,465      1,640       1,844       2,080       2,354      2,676      3,052
Firewood                       1,095      1,117       1,095       1,073       1,052      1,031      1,010
Charcoal                         278         422        434         447         461        474        489
Othcr Forest Products          3,151      6,399       6,885       7,417       8,008      8*6u6      9,204
Vehicles                     313,174    342,803    397,688    448,206    505,409   569,876   642,785
Cement                          -         4,623       4,851       5,100       5,356      5,627      5,932
Salt                             711         775        793         811         829        846        864
Limestone                    14,050      14,8oo      15,650      16,550      17,500    18,450    19,500
Stones                         8,070      8,604       9,196       9,817      10,510    11,242    12,039
Other Mineral Products         3,198      3,530       3,914       44338       4,813      5,330      5,916
Metal Products                 8,603      9,004       9,416       9,870      10,356    10,888    11,460
Petroleum                       -        22,500      23,100      23.600      24,200    24,800    25,400
Petroleum Products           18,295      18,780      19,262      19,778      20,302    20,837    21,409
Source:  CONARSUD, La Evoluci6n Historica y Proyecciones por Producto de los Traficos Ferroviarios
February 1979



ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Intercity Passenger Traffic
ACTUAL                                      __                            ____                 FORECAST
1965     1966i1967          1966      1969     1970      1971                                   75      196         7            1978     1979      1980     1991      1982      1983
Passengers (million)          53.8      51.7     43.4     46.2      43.2      26.7     25.6     20.0      20.7     22.0      23.5      22.6     15.1           14.7      14.7     14.1      14.9      14.9     14.9
Broad Gauge                 36.2     34.5      28.7     31.1      29.8      15.9     15.1      12.9     13.5     14.8      16.5      15.4     10.8           10.6      11.1     11.3      12.1      12.1     12.1
Narrow eGage                13.8      13.2     11.1      11.6     10.7       8.40     8.25      4.90     4.88     4.79      4.43      4.63     2.42           2.02      1.61     0.73      0.73      0.73     0.73
Standard Gauge               3.79     4.01      3.57     3.51      2.71      2.41     2.21      2.15     2.30     2.40      2.53      2.52     1.85           2.07      1.98     1.71      1.71      1.71     1.7l
Pans-km (billion)                                 5.43      6.20     6.15      4.74     4.98      5.03     5.51      6.20     6.56      6.04     4.41           4.36      4.34     4.13      4.36      4.36     4.36
Broad Gauge                                     3.78      4.33     4.33      3.32     3.52      3.64     4.07     4.66      4.91     4.48      3.40           3.34      3.50     3.57      3.80      3.80     3.80
Narrow Gauge                     n.a.           1.15      1.32     1.26      0.96     1.00      0.91     0.94      0.99     1.07      1.03     0.60             .50      .40       .18      .18       .18       .18
Standard Gauge                                   .50       .55      .56       .46      .46       .48      .50       .55      .58       .53      .41            .46       .44       .38      .38        38      .38
Average Distance (ki)                           125      134       142      178       195       252      266      282       279       267      292            292       292      292       292       292      292
Brond Gaulge                                  132       139      145      209       233      282       301      315       298       291      315            315       315      315       315       315      315
Narrow Gauge                     n.a.         104       114      118       114      121       186      193      207       242       222      248            248       248      248       248       248      248
Standard Gauge                                140       157      207      191       208      223       217      229       229       210      222            222       222      222       222       222      222
Train-km, (regular service)   39.0      37.6     38.3      35.3     37.2      29.6     32.0      30.5     29.7      29.3     29.4      29.5     21.5
(million)
Broad Gaoge                 26.7      25.0     25.7      23.8     24.3      17.6     19.5      18.1     18.9      19.1     19.8      19.8     15.0
Narrow Gauge                 7.82      7.92     7.53      8.28     9.05      8.99     9.1       9.0      7.60      6.93     6.32      6.50     3.84                                        b/
Standard Gauge               4.50     4.68      5.06      3.26     3.88      2.96     3.4       3.4      3.20      3.27     3.30      3.14     2.65
Train-km (mixed trains)                           9.07    11.27      9.06      8.09     7.11      6.69     6.57      6.78     6.83      7.04     3.23
(million)
Broad Gauge                     ..a.           4.94     4.73      4.83      4.71     4.50      4.14     4.16     4.29      4.17      4.22     2.06
Narrow Gauge                                   3.87      4.58     3.65      2.98     2.40      2.34     2.22      2.22     2.33      2.50     1.14
Standard Gauge                                  .26      1,96      .58       .40      .21       .21      .19       .27      .33       .32       .03
Train-km (total)                                 47.4      46.6     46.3      37.7     39.1      37.2     36.3      36.1     36.2      36.5     24.7           18,15    17.78    16.0       16.0      16.0      16.0         V
(miI ion)
Bread Gauge                                   30.6      28.5     29.1      22.3     24.0      22.2     23.1      23.4     24.0      24.0     17.1           13.0      13.47    13.47    13.47    13.47    13.47          I
Narrow Gauge                    ..a.          11.45    12.86    12.71    11.97    11.50    11.34        9.82      9.15     8.65      6.82     4.98           2.51      2.00       .91      .91       .91       .91       Q
Standard Gauge                                 5.32     5.22      4.46      3.36     3.61     3.61      3.39     3.54      3.63      3.46     2.68           2.64      2.32     1.62      1.62      1.62     1.62        ,
a/ To be confirmed and agreed witll the Bank after the results fwu, the study of the long-distance passenger service are available.
b/ Forecasts have been made only of total train-ka and not the composition between regular and mixed services.  Mixed train services which were reduced by more than 50% in 1977 and which comprise about 127
of the total service at present, are expected to decrease further to about 57, of the total service by the end of the forecast period.
Source:  F, and Bank
July 1978



ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Suburban Passtener Traffic
_ _____________  ACTUAL     __              ____             __               -                 FORECAST -
1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977                1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Buenos Aires
Passengers (million)          444      429     406      446      450     414      409     379      363     393      412      411     387           396      401      404     409      413      416
Broad Gauge                 360      345      327     359      361     335      335     315      304     328      344      343     324           332      336      339     343      346      349
Narrow Gauge                59.7    60.2    56.4    62.1    64.3    55.7    51.8    43.4    39.8    44.2    44.5    45.3    40.7                 41.8    42.2    42.7    43.1    43.5    44.0
Standard Gauge              24.1    24.0    22.9    24.6    24.5    22.8    21,9    20.2    18,7    20.5    23.7    22.4    22.7                 22.1    22.3    22.5    22.8    23.0    23.2
Passenger-km  (billion)         9.07    8.84    7.86    8.65    8.62    7.95    7.83    7.33    7.12    7.69    7.97    8.24    7.96                8.15    8.23    8.31    8.40    8.48    8.57
Broad Gauge                   7.71    7.49    6.56    7.22    7.15    6.65    6.62    6.28    6.15    6.64    6.86    7.09    6.85                 7.03    7.10    7.17    7.24    7.32    7.39
Narrow Gauge                  1.054   1.056   1.008   1.112   1.153   1.008    .937    .788    .725    .779    .801    .847    .779                 .800    .808    .816    .824    .832    .841
Standard Gauge                 .304    .299    .292    .314    .312    .286    .273    .260    .241    .269    .309    .305    .329                 .320    .323    .326    .330    .333    .336
Average Distance  (km)         20.4    20.6    19.4    19.4    19.2    19.2    19.1    19.3    19.6    19.6    19.3    20.0    20.6                 20.6    20.5    20.6    20.5    20.5    20.6
Broad Gauge                 21.4    21.7    20.1    20.1    19.8    19.9    19.8    19.9    20.2    20.2    19.9    20.7    21.1                 21.2    21.1    21.2    21.1    21.2    21.2
Narrow Gauge                l7.7    17.5    17.9    17.9    17.9    18.1    18.1    18.2    18.2    17.6    18.0    18.7    19.1                 19.1    19.1    19.1    19.1    19.1    19.1
Standard Gauge              12.6    12.5    12.8    12.8    12.7    12.5    12.5    12.9    12.9    13.1    13.0    13.6    14.5                 14.5    14.5    14.5    14.5    14.5    14.5
Iraisn--k   (milli.oni)       30.3    30.6    32.4    33.0    31.8    33.5    34.1    31.9    32.1    32.6    31.9    31.5    29.6                 27.2    27.2    27.2    27.2    27.2    27.2
Broad Gauge                  23.0    23.8    25.2    25.6    24.4    26.7    27.0    25.2    25.4    25.7    25.0    25.2    23.6                21.2    21.2    21.2    21.2    21.2    21.2
Narrow Gauge                  6.00    5.58    5.73    5.62    5.56    4.98    5.60    5.01    5.03    5.04    4.89    4.60    4.36                4.98    4.98    4.98    4.98    4.98    4.98
Standard Gauge                1.26    1.18    1.47    1.81    1.83    1.83    1.48    1.68    1.64    1.90    1.96    1.68    1.61                1.03    1.03      1.03    1.03    1.03    1.03
Other Cities b/
Passengers (million)                                                                                         7.54   10.7    12.1      4.10          2.73    1.37                                           v.
Passenger-km (million)                                                                                       210    315      353     133              89       44
Average distance (kw)                                  n.a                                                  27.8    29.5    29.2    32.4            21.6    10.1                                           M
Train-km (million)                                                                                           4.03    4.38    5.13    3.40           2.27    1.13
a/  To be confirmed and agreed with the Bank after the results from the suburban rail masterplan study are available.
b/ This service will be discontinued after 1979.
Soburce:  FA a-nd Bank s.aff
JuTly 197



- 63
LI _GE'1_1 I C                                                                                              -,Q=  2.12-
Mc-c!" RATI
19 68                                  9                 19 71           __R72                  9                 1974               19 7 5              19 7 6
i.  SYSTEM
41 7 00            LD,',Co            39, 900            39,8M               39. Boo           39, 800             39,SOD             3-,vo               39, 80,             37. 20D
TI.  TRAKKC
P-                   -b-                 1 1 I                          L45                44' 7               413                09                38 6              3, 6 3               33                405                   3
46                 '3                27                  6                 2C                28                    1                32                   5
.1                                            49                493                 440                   -               406               391                  123                437                148                  406
-b-                                             8                  8, 600             F, .               7,830               7, 50             7, 12C              769C               7 890               8  L02               7 9 62, 0
6. 3,',B             450, c
100                711             5 000               5,coo            5,21                6                                    14,910                12502.C
6    0                                                                                                                L c             6,ASD
00              _-:ioo                                                                                         I
14,80              i                  i :7 4  2 OC         23              12,500           12,84D                4ilc              -4,370
7                                                              19.4               1.3                19.4                                    g.,             20.0                                    19.0               19.6                ',O.,
All        -z-y  - =b_                  '11                                                I                                                         2-               2                    2200               202                 106                 2345
-3,                 43                 74                  12                                   04
2.9                                  2                   18 .3                .0                                    6,3               17                  13.S
P   igh t.-                 -    ig (illi-)                             9.8                0                 22                   I                                   19                                                             2
ft. ght -t t..-YI. ---                   --in    (.;Ili-)           12,BDO              13,13c             13,03              "Oo              12,500            12,5 0               -2,31              ]C,7                'O.905              11A51.2
18                683               658                    L                                                        7
A, -.   J..g1h   f h..!                                                 64              2,613                 15                  -                                                       64                 656
M ff-   _it (p- -K'. I-    t- y)   illi-                         21,60N                  7so            26,30o             26,500             25,03C            25,340               26.410             25,071              25""D               23,3; 2
111.  TRAFFIC DENSITY
1                367                318                 321                316               323                 354                 362                3E7                 3117'a
5L                                                                         IlL                                                                          273                  32
ight    I             p-    - t-K.                                  3                   33i                31'                343                  -               3114                 31D                283
IV.  OPERATIONS
(.illi-)                            33.1                3L4                33 . 5              34.3              3' .6             321C                 32.4               31.9               31,                 n.6
:g.                                              3                  37.8               29.5                 27.2              2                                     30.4                30.3               4                  127
t_                                              11-1              0.2                3.0                 5.,              61, -            11.1                  2.8               6M                                      32
35:8                                   6.5                 3.,             351              31                   3-4                28.9                11.1                301
-d                                                                     10.9                 1.2                2 .3              10.2                  3                 .9                5.8                I
117.3              117.7                                   IC8.3            109.5             loe.5                 04.2                99.9              101.7                8.,
Tr.i.-K. by -d. f t-ti..
:t- 11 ..... ti,..                                            25                 23.6               291.3                                                       4
i                                                               5
6-                  0                                                        7' 1                                  70.2               67                   8:,                51:34
5.7                  .4              6                                      0.               7- 1
'5.8                3.9               12.1                 12 8             14.7              11:7                 13:7               137                12.9                 _,4
1                   9                I -               1                    - ,
10.3               lO.D                  .0                   s              O.-               0 E                -0                   M                 -0
L- ... ti,. k:dt-                                                        50.72              3.3               42                   35.2              28.4              21.9                 78.9               16.4               -73                  1 3
-ti-                                                    7                  82.9                                    85.1              SE4              897.4               87.6                84.1               82.9                 75.3
21,9              -26 2                                  12 3                 48             9 .3                 0&_5              10.5                CO.2
di...l.                                                17 1                9                                      10'7              1-7               1 .2                18.1                !7.0               1.5                19:;
5'                                                                                                                -6
8:1               %.'2               ;4.2                 55 1              5' 7              6 .9                57                  6                  59
I                                                                                                                                                       I                                   7S                 75:2                 -0
...                                             652                6.               67.6                 70'8              7"4 "I  1,;        ?                '71                                         7                  '5
895               7               6"                      ,               490                "I                   363
97                                                                         79'8                                   740                698                6                    726
L--ti-    -iI                    di -1                                   682                67,0               74'                  776                                                                                             11
356                346                35                   370              3co               335                  332                29                  279                 256
197                508                5351                 534              L98               435                  43'                48                469                  490
p- L.. ... il.bl./y,             t.-             43,000             39,600             41,400              39,41,0            37:000            33,600               34,700             33,500             31,700               39,40D,
di,,-l         M       '           121:111            115:111            111,110            118:111          117,111              118,400            120,50             119,200              12 2 0
R.il-        yh  -         -il                                      18:'OO'            57 000              9 000             12,DDO              55 00            54 300               55,500             58,8OC              39 10D              56600.
0          11                                    103,000              -41,coo         -33 800              n2,20c             126,40               16:200
;7 00              -0,000            103,000                                                                                                00
3,56              3,500              3,364              3,168               2,947,           2,813                2,87,              2,84i               2, 684              2:'3,9.
(000)                499                428                 351                362                155               34                   351                343                327                  2,7
500                                                                                         123,800
p-         ... ilbW y                    136,300             139,4CO            104 300            11  300            120               122,E                122,3.'            120,700             121,800
53,953             53,329              - 380             50,096             49,566            4S,599               44,192             43,016              43,305              40,86
(.illi-)                 651                 651                 ..                EOS                5670                ..                 5 2                                   411
_P                                               366                370                 363                352                3 2               137                  313                27'                26                    I
_1- 1                                           ,017              1,021                 996                960                932               875                  8-3                727                 717                 764,
P-i& --K. p-    -                                                  18:8,0              19,100             19,000             19,200             18,800            20,100               18,40             16,900              16,60'              18,700.
-b                                               (DOO)                 651                845                 838                823                726               715                  69 6               605                587
11    "     2 1,    "                                                11,                                                                                                                                                                                oao
G_           K.                                                                                                                 770                6,20C            4,600                4,300              3,700               3,60a
Boo                   "8:100               8 600                 70'            39:111            31:600              38
35,200             3                                       9                                                                          36:111              316:111              35'eco.
1,5                   5               "B                    400
'80
0             100                - 0                1     c             I00              I -                  -                  1 50'                 40,              -2 00
2,9                3,7                   8                                   2,1              ,O                     000             1,C 00  2 00  2 0  00  0  3 0  Co  90   _:"O.
48,800                                                     43                   L2.ECO.
I. ,                                            11,40              54,400             52800             51,600              5 3 0                                47,100             45 D 0                  ?00
- K    ft.ight ..IY                                       30,80'0            32,000             32,800             31,603              3-:3,00           29,800              27,500              24:5'00            24:300               21,700.
2 ETTNG EFFIC=CY
2' -1              21C                202                208                 204              207                  224                23'                 222                 239
4                    .8                 .0                                    6                   .9                                   5                   55
_N`
.2               3                                     42               4                    4
F-igh,                t..                                               35,7               358                3 73               369                 328              351                  392                37'                 29                  11 I 11
23                 21,6                                  271                 252              25 7                 27                 249                 2 5,                 -7
11,1 1,, 1,:dd           (t.-)              2.5               D.8               26206.4              2,.,               26 .2             28.0                 29.1-              26.9                29.3                3I0
1-d                                       64 .0              63                 63.5                633               61.3              51-.i               61.6                61.6               61.1                 591
51?               53.7               58.0                                                    11.5                 579               52.2                 2,0                 57
Zy                1                      9               I                  I .1                                                                                                                 -'7
16.                 6.3               I,6.                                   .3                19.4               20.8                20
VI.  STAFF EFFICIENCY
- b -    -, -1"    -- ",                            (011)                158                150                145                143                 140               -L2                  41                149                 155                  126.0
N-b        f -.1                                                           3.8                3                                      3.6
.          y.. F.                                                                      .7                3 , 7                                                   3.                                     3.7                3,6                  3
T-ffi. -1.   P-    -Ply-                           (000)               175                 1 6                182                185                1?9               i 76                 157.               168                 162                 175
G--    t.-K p-    -pl.y..                          (000)                 95                213                                   221                221               210                  i95               164                  4                 303
S.--  FA
M.y 1978



lOG  -j              0   00                        20         CoO-A       -<                     2      10    2         2                    AA   G  AOAAIAO   A             'A  -2,  GA  00
2               A   10                         A         20                                  A     0.    A                                                         0      01  A  A
0       A               A   0.                         0)        02                                  A     I     A          A                                (tOGA   A      A         A  A
-   AG  A.              A'  AG                         A                                             A     2     2                                            1002   A      A     A   A)  2   2
A   0  UG[G       A-Allot  AG             IA  It       A         AG                                  2     A     2          A           A                    G'GAGA   A     I         Al  A   AG
2,                               A     A     2          I                   202,       HGGAG   GA    GO
I'      A                   GA                         A         IA                                        A     12         2                                AAA    A       I     A   21  12
A   AG                         A         AA                                 12   0   P.                                                                 A        2
A                   Al                         A         A2A          A                                  <'III    I                                  2AA
GA      A                   ,-,                        A-         A                                  A     AAA   CAAA GAlA                     A A   GA    GAO    A              2
A               A   GG  I   I                            122                                 A     A       2GAAAAGA                                  222    A
a                              -.        --0                                             A'AAAA    GA                              IA   A   A            A
A   GA  AOAG                   A         AG'                                0111         2,2GAPAA                                    0ot     A
AG  12  <<A                   GA        020                                 2          II AAAGGA2CAAA          A                    AGA    A
A               -A  02  OGAII                              A                                 OGAAGAAAAAO-0   A-                                        GA    t,110IG
'2  AAA                   A          AA.                                AG 22G21212-    20   Aa            GA                   Al A
A.                            A 2  I GA                                             A          AAAAG 0221222                    A                    a/IA   G22
A      GGAGAG                                .1111'' 2-2                    AOAGAAA    G'AGoo
10      AAA                                                                  01-IAA.--A                                                            GA a 2,0
A  A  2, A  2  2,              -   A  2  2   0  2  A   I  A   I  I  I                  A  A  A  A  A  A  A  0  0  A  0
2 A   2                      A 2 AG A ' A                   A   0         GA A 2 A A                                o A   A GA  A A
AAAG.A 2                           22        G-AGAA                                      AAAA  A
Ill Ill                                    II   A    AAAAAA  AGA                                       2022,  0
01-GA   02                                 A.A      2                       GAO                         001-'
AltO    AA                                 AA       A
A                             AGAG   2         AAA    AA                                  AG       A
2,1 AA        GA-a   A-i                                  Al      A
AG    22            GO   A                       GA  02          -
A     '   Go
0000                                                               A GA A A                                                                                                           00
AGOGI                                                                                                             A
0-I'                  II>  to       10100-00021  .GGAtOI2,I11010G01-.G.G  AOG-0'2'                                                        Ut GA  10  10 1' 00          01      VGA
02,10             10GAo'  GA      OA'A-200AG,' 001.A001GOAG2  00 00CG0C2,002,1002AtI.I,           -2     A  10(0112,                   -'1AGAG.G000000A1220         A'
OGGOOGIA     -G'G'GI00AG-l'2,00     10'A 00A'101GGGA-IAAOO'ZG A1022G2002A002,' 200000000 OA10GA0000         110000100         1000      0000-A-10GA002-
2     2                                                         0,12,00 0000A'10>0  I  0021020 00                     A22,AOGO000000GAA2,
A                                              010     I                                                                                          2                               2
GO      GAGAGOGAGOGA                 101000110                                                               0000  10  011210
2       200000'0010  10       000000 GA1020001.AA'10 00001-10000000002>00                                                           '-'0-  l2,210AA1
1000002       0G-00000001--1000'    1000A-00100-'G00A'00--2,2200200000000.G-2,001000A11- 1010101022        'G  12,02100      000-'      10A'-0020A01100000A-'210       0
2             -01       10  202,    01                                                        001011.2,101000000000   101000100000                a002O11G0 000000000010
V
A                                                                                                                                                                                         0
10       00       00 00 2                                                                                           2       A
1000    1010  00      0000      [010,-'                                                            GA  10      01                 01
102                   1010  1-'      >00  10 0001,-'00101--'>001011--000        210                                           1010      001010  10  >1000              00
00110  GA     200010100   10        000111 00000011000I00002 00000   0000001 '-10010      02,2      10   10  GA              0010       101000   1'10100010A'  A       GA      LI
102100        010012210001010       102   1010.1100GA0010GA00000A   000001021010   2,1000001001101   221-001000              0-01      000020'-100--10000001010 I.
10201010102100010                                                                                 10 10   2                       10                         00
0010101010102         10010  G2,A'001000                                                          10  A'       10>00              10     110                 10
101-'  2              0101  0        000l1002,000001010102000010100010>201                                                 1010      0002   tO  0,200101  10        02,    Ia
Co   '0       20011100100001         00000G0o0000AA0000A-0100000000000010O000110Afr0010l01   20           00  010210         02,10     10-2,1G2001000000001-'00       10     IA
00001000      0010001000000          0000t2,1010102002G-G1000-o000000000000000010000A000000100,--.0000   002002,0010          0000      00'0 10002001000.A0002         GO
00100'       10  1000    00                                10     -                 000111001010002>10   00010'101000                   100100000100000010000



- 65 -
TABLE 3.1
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
INVESTMENT PLAN (1979-1983)
(Figures in 0S$ Millions)
Description                                   -        1 9 7 9                                  1 9 8 0                                  1 9 8 1                                     9 ______9____
Local    Foreign       Total             Local    Foreign      Total              Local    Foreign     Total                Local    Foreign      Total              Local    Foreign        Total
I.  WAY ANS WORKS                                                   us$                                     us$                                     us$                                        us$                                        us$
Renewal                                37.67      18.55        56.22            56.35      28.18        84.53             78.37     39.18    117.55                 52.91     26.45       79.36              10.00       4.08        14.08
Improvement                             12.80      0.96        13.85             18.36      1.53        19.89             20.20      1.52      21.72                12.31      0.92       13.23               0.62        -           0.62
Bridges                                 4.27       1.07         5.34              5.38      1.38         6.76              6.02      1.47       7.49                 4.00       0.27       4.27                2.00      0.14         2.14
Stations                                 2.41       -           2.41              2.82      3.00         5.82              4.83      2.45       7.28                 3.46      6.56       10.04                 -         -            -
Accesses                                18.33       -          18.33             17.73       -          17.73              1.88       -         1.88                 0.56        -         0.56
Track Machinery                         0.35       1.56         1.91             4.18       3.81         7.99              4.25      5.13       9.38                             -              -          -                     -
Workshops                                6.45      3.96        10.41              1.94      0.32         2,26              5.83      1.33       7.16                 7.06       2.03       9.09               1.40       0.85         2.25
Miscellaneous                            2.29       -           2.29              3.37       -           3.37              2.77       -         2.77                 1.00        -         1.00               0.37        -           0.37
Subtotal                             84,56      26.10       110.66            110.13     38.22       148.35            124.15     51.08    175.23                 81.30     36.25      117.55              14.39       5,07        19.46
II.  SIGNALLING AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Signalling                              2.00       3.87         5.87             3.17       7.87        11.04              2.24      9.38      11.62                10.62      8.19       18.81               0.83        -           0.83
Telecotmmunications                     4.12       2.22         6.34             3.27       1.25         4.52              4.39       -         4.39                 2.70      0.85        3.55               0.72        -           0.72
Subtotal                              6.12       6.09        12.21              6.44      9.12        15.56              6.63      9.38      16.01                13.32      9.04       22.36               1.55        -           1.55
III.  MOTIVE POWER AND ROLLING STOCK
Locomotive rehabilitation                3.20      Q.68         3.88             10.00      1.50        11.50              5.61       1.02      6.63                 2.00                  2.00                 -          -           -
Line Locomotives                         7.00      8.55        15.55              5.20      1.30         6.50             10.13       1.70     11.83                  -
Loco tractors                             -        7.95         7.95              5.40      2.00         7.40              7.00      2.60       9.60                 7.40       2.60      10.20                2.71      1.00         3.71
Wagon bodies                            13.10      0.40        13.50              7.30     20.41        27.71               -       20.00      20.00                  -        39.72      39.72
Wagon bogies                             5.70      2.21         8.41              3.80      14.80       18.60               -        14.47     14.47                  -        28.40      28.40
Wagon rehabilitation                     2.39     20.00        22.39              3.60      0.90         4.50              3.00       0.80      3.80                 0.80       0.15       0.95                 -          -
Suburban teaches                         7.10      1.68         8.78              1.30      0.31         1.61               -          -         -                    -          -          -                   -          -           -
Coaches rehabilitation                   2.01      0.41         2.42              2.28      0.48         2.76              1.56        -        1.56                 1.02        -                                 1.02-
Wagon modification                       5.20        -          5.20              3.60        -          3.60              0.50                 0.50                 0-                    0.50
Spare parts                              3,10     24.59        27.69              2.30     17.49        19.79              0.90     10.45      11.35                 1.00       9.52      10.52
Workshop eqoipnent                       1.90      0.80         2.70              3.00        -          3.00              2.00        -        2.00                  -          -           -                  -          -            -
Substations                              3.00      1.98         4.98              6.91      4.50        11.41              3.50      2.25       5.75                  -          --
Subtotal Motive Power and             53.70     69.75       123.45             54.69     63.69       118.38             34.20     53.29      87.49                12.72      80.59      93.31                2.71      1.00         3.71
Rolling Stock
IV. CONSULTING SERVICES l/                    0,30       1.50         1.80             0.20       1.50         1.70               -         -          -                                       2 3  2              1           6           2
TOTAL (without contingencies)          144.68    103.44       248.12            171.46    112.53       283.99            164.98    113.75    278.73                107.34    125.88      233.22               18,65       6.07       24.72
Physical contingencies 2/                5.55      3.36         8.91              7.40       5.87       13.27              7.22       5.91     13.13                 8.20       8.37      16.57                1.50      0.59         2.09
150.23    106.80       257.03            178.86    118.40       297.26            172.20    119.66    291.86                115.54    134.25      249.79              20.15       6.66        26.81
Price contingencies 3/                  18.71     13.40        32.11             35.71      23.20       58.91             42.53      29.90     72.43                39.03      36.72      75.75                8.62       2.86       11.4E
TOTAL (with contingencies)             168.94    120.20       289.14            214.57    141.60       356.17            214.73    149.56    364.29                154.57    170.97      325.54               28.77       9.52       38.29
ELENTRIFICATION (of Roca)                6.00       6.00       12.00             15.00      18.00       33.00            1.00       18.94     36.94                60.00      74.24     134,24               24.00      20.10       44.10
GRAMSD  TOTAL (with eleptrificetion)   174.84    126.20       301.14            229.57    159.60       389.17            232.73    168.50    401.23                214.57    245.21      459,78               52,77      29.62       82.39
1B ased en 1978 costs which irclude enzet4a.esntles.
2t Five percent except where quantities are clearly dofined due to existing contracts.
3/ Price contingencies have been taken as follows:
Equipment:    7% for 1978; 6.5% for 1979 and 6% fross' 1930 onward.
Civil Works: 8% for 1978; 7.57 for 1979 and 7% for 19630 onward.
Source: FA
February 1979



9266 922
62C06 2613.(93 POJECT
1.  7220024969                                                    (2     2  .39             1942 3902 12)1                                T ota
2.  Aoao   a.A. Ca-tos  ((-kOt                7P -7.9            (26267.49          (13262.9039                                            4.26   2). T-aakaitr   1aOqirer                        (               7.99             7.931.9
3.  AIate  to Ro--rIrprr                     (2426(.61           (160   56)1.2                                                            29.23          Oo                                      1.93             5.92             4.96
lraoa 72,r2ta                ~~~      ~      ~~~~.32  6.31      1.32
4.  Rraffel,   aaa,   a                                                                                                                                 Toa2aa7   Pagrp.215727
(Oe,rratlty-((ey Hey Plato)          6,~~~~123         13.77               24.22             23.32195                                                                           .3      3-0    .0971                                                        22
Trr  acyar-l                           (42.5260  (3        (2tSr  73.29 1     (29 X6)  24.22      794224913.312Z                                                                                      n2)65
Taiot     Li..32                        (703 -c  0.29    (203 26 0.12    (,03 26,  0.22                                                       23.  -lOaing 4lt.9r5 a0(.
3.  3e2e6219rs62r,o Pc26arait 32y       ~~~~~2.13          13.34              24.92               2.72                      49.22(360                                               .
Stac  Re0at                                             9   26   5.72    (114 li) 22.23    )1O47.5                                          4   rI  O920LS                                                 12.94                                                      95
Partial Sacaroo                72~~~~~~~(1  r  0,322 (26    2.22     (97 oo   573                                                                                      (27.2.5  1,5)   0.42  (-60-0)  6. _39S
OrOdoat                       (~~~~~~~~~120  a) 0.2  (02    Mg32    (23   a)  0.93       (90 0 .29
a)pteLine                         (70  li)-.7    (152 26    .3           22 2) 0.2    4     (252 26) 6.263)
6.     ......66a6l  .   6rrt(a25. 3(--r I & SaIa.e (aco                                                                                                                                                     16,62                                                      21.61
(Ocrrardta-Ploodce)                 ~~~~~              ~~~~       ~~7.99  9.50  3.14          53-                        I5.25-'1.694  5.35  (36-194   7.03
(90-341)  3.43
zractcor,402                   (~~~~~~~~~~5) 6a( 7.29  (3 I ie)  7.73  3I9 26)  6.23    (23  6  5.135_ O   3
Em                    34~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-0632
7  6920                                    36   )  .2    (95r   23               (2   )03                                                        2). A4rr Pa--e                     (30-106   3.39  ll~.45)   2,77                                                         2.10
7. taOt40006a22ca Parascora 4123  oro  0.20                                                            7.22                                                         (i2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7(  2.03                      2.05C)    3  .0
tl9O~~~~~~~~~ao ~~~~(00 )   0.23.1- -    -                                                                                                                                         2                                                                            2.266
9.  achahiiitalip Peitaarol,9 2y              1.60                1.30               2.,63                                          71.9    29. Otill StOel Ocior              73-79    .72                                                                            6.29
PerT -k    a                              0  O)23            929 11              742)42                                                          .                                 726-20))6.27  v(2(4937    3.12                                                          o 43
2ttOEa.                                  745   )0.0        (43       0.03                                                                      31 . pegre PahbOli-er(-                       16.49590
3                                                                                                                                      (O0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~133( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3J4   (97-026)  4.30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-2  RC16)45
266r0l  1-trlorr.a-    r   o                      7.62              74.36               19.52              7.72                        453.2                                      23.47)7.
77 C26, -a.(-dra                                                                                                                                  rr      ar                              3.76,.2
Trak Oarao-(                             (4226   6.47       (9  2    3.23      (1(4 Or61.93   ~17 (Or) 0.70                                    j7  lrOPy-6   r- icro              (B2.2711   2.1    (-01923) 3.03I.
PirlioOOara--a                           (26 97  .09       72026    1.37        ()26) 1.7)7.
TeoOrstrc-)62                                      .6        20  a   0.07I,     (63  r7 05.1                                                   30. -trrr.Otb-arork,r2t                         .403.6
T~~1.,--- 1-             0.0 11) C.11    (1043290,24            ((71 27) 0.03
10.  264l7611ctrr"Pro 4r7,,                                                                   1.4o                                                   34.                                           2-,01    96tro61.3  02.16                                                   46.21
33. OaBr"r1Ortl,plrt -r                        2.770             ,3                                                         5.70
Parcool Rororal                (~~~~~ ~~~20266.3  (624)  094                                                                                 rottOr  222
Li   6abbtlitarr- I2r,are6  Wr1.0                                         3.23                                                                       33. R-tap-sr  .aC- o  Ol-po-                                      67              0.30                                      2.3
1-rac                                                  0.40             7.90
Partial Ratacti           (0626)   Cr                                                                                                  ortor                      0~~~~(65 0.20.40                                 32
OrOdgee                 (33  a) 0.14      (25 cr2   3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.7617                                                             Z21                                                      31
12.Uaatlla--.                                                                                                                                   39rr20-rt-y Wir-iI-r 3.11   0)
Partial Orrocal               ~~~~~~~(27 26..96   (9 26)  0.37       7626    0.51                                                           3 O4a_
0727200                    (0  a6 2.34 ~~~~~~~t2  ..)  02.55    71202    1,77
13.  022b6 19o1-. Parcr,077EO)                                                                06                                                       .  Or-Icr- 24 3aE-1 Erd-r ftc Rcbr-- 26   recaat
11-0                                                                                              ~~ ~          ~~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. ratr -ro - ralo  6-1"    4.79                                    4.22
Palaral 006070~  ~            ~~~~~     ~~2 )20a   1 .45  (4C  -.)  3.23  719262   1.34                                                5     --7ab  cE(5hojo    Oeoic      73-1    21        1.37 167-2
14.  Pehobilitoeio-a,    rc  7627                                                                                                           Iit 23     2    Od           --o-Ur,.9 (~-3)162l8
(P. 0560022-caoco6rerlo(                                                                              2. 22467604 Po2rla.Olrr Ray RabaR.           715               9,40             9.20           14.34~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.b~.  .129,1  848  4.4  3.9
Partial 6260202                )lO lie)~~(2   1.52  (50 2.  3.23     (9207  266    (100 ra) 6.20                                             (7.Str                                                                                                              399
25.   ahiletroPtorrty.26                                                                                                                                                             bl-1.c21620t0ro
Iccay Scbetrolreo        7~~~92    .6    9       1 21   (2        03
26.  206h40li-02- 72407010Ot7 .75                                                                                                                              ct34ct49
27.  22t04012ra22cr  ?a26oraaa    .7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 .96         r.rlrrttr  P026702,.L    (lay    aatab,   10.46            26.50              759                                      34.49~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.7.2  ( 5     . 10   ,  2   5
fl2rrOrro.2eo  17017                                                                                   (ta2640rsc(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24    f7(
(sr   a,o(                 2 07       09      3  IS)   .'0  (0    220.459               6
19.                                                                                                                                             44ailttccPRaor Oy2
S. Orrloe-.4 34422600 )tcrirrr (72) a4 (.1    26 0)       0.6    (3Sr    1.01  725 cr176                         23
telephrtrllyrt                7~~~~~~~~~~~13016  0,46  (,1376  .0 49  7030 26 .43
2                     6~~~~~     ~    ~~~~~41.30  6-.23   1 9952         31.2                      47.74
77.06  73.32 ~~~~~~~~~~~I  12, 50
Srro  62  loo-k  -f01



:9 12  1a                                                                              .  27 
,322l12 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I                                                   MU22L3177 521 81
1.   7121112  -.21.2.12221  171                            1,11               288,           1717               1'7 .  00 2171   1711317 157   1170                              1182             1951           182             2827Lin1.
7752(.171.M222                                                                                                                                                        2100)           (, 17 l21~8  14521  77.71
1.5                                                                                      0.02713-2-11--111014-
1121112                              1  7                                                                                              222.1 02 o-9  1                                                 (7014211                        (4
7. 40222    0522222                                                                                                                             .77(21..0   731.2                                                                                                         7
(24  I.-  (71  I'll                                              1,17~~~~~~~~~~~~71112  11                                                                        1  12  .7                        22
241    1271   .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -413221
722222122(.2121772.02I71122           72               421                                                                                                                                                                          -111.82
8.78                                                 (121.2 2.2.12112.8 0 1                                                            781225.12   (28 177  2.55~~~~~~I.ITI
2.   152 722221112        70-17   7'7          757.812.1                                           .0.7              00120201                                                        111771221171222711    2212    7.2
77187   'S                                                                                         2140710411
1.0                                                                                                                                                                                            I-7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~777131211711111
72270212-71072271(                                                                     (7277-123112~~~W-
82200222222  777 327  7 12  (1 2221  2.21                                                  722 .12.02 221117~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11                                  71       (    ~                  ~            1
12.12222 7720022202020                                                                                     13.   11121.11221171   7350177                                          (827  10 4.77  (87723   232  (72771M     2 78    2.71.1
(12011-2222112.02217200077072  (32027777  (122(1.27                                .2.  0202011.2(0102107 72727.                                          (70002) l.14723502771(7232027   721-              1.58LI. 7
M-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 37 .132002.288    .2                                                                                                                                                           22  72
21.  2122 772212220  721                                                                               57 2728                                                                   2.1)            75             22
77272727 82713221  (2) 22 lol  (7 727 7 12                             72~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
22.  22 8121222201127012277  0.22                                            11.  1103733127222                                                                5.52                                   15.-7
270202                                                                                                        1.12                                                                             (72- 7)  1.77(11-87  77.2    '22-127 7.2
..   ......... ... ...   ..   .....     ...                                                                                                                                                       (2...11).0.14



ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Proiject a Bd ank Loan
(Figures in Ug$ millions)
1 9 79                          1 9 80                          1 9 81                           1 9 82                          To talrjet
Local    Foreign f Total    Local        Fot reg     Total      Local        ei       Total     Local      Foreign      Total        oal                     otal      Bank Loan
Way and works                          51.95     16.40      68.35    87.98       34.22    122.20       79.37      34.01    113,38      33.11       10.46       43.57      252.41       95.09      347.50        41.00
Signal and telecossunications          2.30       2.30       4.60     3.47        4.33       7.80       3.06       3.77      6.83       7.80        5.21       13.01       16.63       15.61       32.24          -
Motive power/.olling stock            52.90      48.83    101.73    48.18        58.88    107.06        1.96       5.31       7.27       -           _           _        103.04      113.02      216.06        38.00
Consulting cervices                    0.30       1.50       1.80     0.20         1.50      1.70        -          -          -         -           -           -          0.50        3.00        3.50         3.00
Total                                107.45      69.03    176.48   139.83        98.93    238.76       84.39      43.09    127.48      40.91       15.67       56.58      372.58      226.72      599.30        82.00
Physical contiisgencies                3.54       2.93       6.47     5.12        4.21       9.33       3.34       1.69      5.03       1.61        0.58        2.19       13.61        9.41       23.02         3.40                 w
Subtotal                             110.99      71.95    182.95   144.95       103.14    248.09       87.73      44.78    132.51      42.52       16.25       58.77      386.19      236.13      622.32        85.4
Contingeocies price -                  14.43      9.36      23.79    24.96       20.64      45.60      24.28      12.61     36.89      14.81        5.49       20.30       78.48       48.10      126.58        10.6
Total with contingencies             125.42      81.32    206.74   169.91       123.78    293.69    112.01        57.39    169.40      57.33       21.74       79.07      464.67      284.23      748.90        96.0
/ Details of Bank financed items are given in Table 3.4
2/ Physical contingencies are provided at the rate of 5% except where quantities are clearly known due to existing contracts.
3/ Price contingencies have been provided according to Bank Guidelines as follows:
For Equipsent:  ' for 1979, 6.5% for 1979. 67. from 1980 onwards
For Civil Works:  8% for 1978, 7.5% for 1979, 7% for 1980 onwards.
Source: FA and Bank staff
February 1979



- 69-
TABLE 3.4
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
List of Goods for Bank Financing
(Figures in millions of US Do:Llars .'
1979    1980    L981    Total
Rails                          3.0       6.o     7.0     16.0    (17-7)
Wagon bodies                     -      10.0    10.0      20.0    (22.1)
Wagon bogies                     -      10.0     8.0     18.0    (19-9)
Track fittings                   -       8.5     7.5     16.0    (17.7)
Track contract                 0.5       2.0     1.0       3.5     (3-9)
Track machinery                1.0       3.0     1.5       5.5     (6.1)
Technical assistance           1.5       1.5      -        3.0     (3.3)
6.o    141.o    35.0      82.0    (90.7)
Contingencies                  1.0       7.0    -6.0     14.0      (5.3)
TOTAL                          7.0      48.0    41L.o    96.0    (96.0)
-/ In July 1977 prices except those in parentheses which are expressed
in November 1978 prices.
Source: FA and Bank staff
November 1978



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  SI SIXTf~                        
a~~~~~~~~,{                C =-IS  SIa
H a S C                        O                                          S.     SI-  SIS>da  
P;~OS                            SI                                                PC oSiI=8 ,, g d H x G a 1                              
o~~~~~S                                         Cd                           SIP                  CC   SI  a -    C  ;Ugs<989eB          
z~~~~~S    'C    -     $ *) r           7 <  <  <  <  j (} (] s      
1S41<01-~~~S OS C                                                         IS  I
CC      SI        SI   SI    SI    Ct                     CC  SI  Ct        SI  CC  5C5
SI a  *     SI            ed  eS                                 SI   ae           eL    e       
SI~~ SI              SIC  SI                      SI   SI   SI  ,        SI C C   SICS CC  P  SI  C  C   i-i   .
C-    C5           SIC C} _r   SI' CD C_       <P   SII                                              C-S''I   '*



- 71 -
TABLE 3.6
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Procurement Schedule
Evaluation
Specifications   Issue of      of        Issue of
Tender Documents  Tenders    Tenders       Orders   Delivery
Rails                  February 1979    Yarch 1979 June 1979  July 1979  Aug. 1979
December 1980
Rails Fittings         March 1979        April 1979 July 1979  Aug. 1979 Nov.1979 to
Dec. 1980
Maintenance Machinery                                                      March 1980 to
Dec. 1980
Track Contract              "                                              Oct. 1979 to
Dec. 1980
Wagons                      "                                              Jan. 1980 to
Dec. 1980
Consultants                 "                 "                            Sept. 1979 to
Dec. 1980
Source: FA and Bank staff
November 1978



- 72 -
TABLE 3.7
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Quarterly                 Cummulative
IBRD Fiscal Year                        Disbursement                Disbursement
1980
I    December 1979                            7.0                        7.0
II   March 1980                               7.0                       14.0
III  June 1980                               12.0                       26.0
1981
I    September 1980                          14.0                       4o.o
II   December 1980                           15.0                       55.0
III  March 1981                              10.0                       65.0
IV   June 1981                               10.0                       75.0
1982
I    September 1981                         10.0                        85.0
II   December 1981                          11.0                        96.0
Source: FA and Bank staff
November 1978



ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
1.ACCESS TO SILOS (46 K.)
Ecesa:aic Post 1970  1910              ERR =20% evlao spart oflaksgostEterge project.
0.  ACCESS TOI 30E101 AIRES CENTRAL MARKET                (lIen)              4.7  6.36
Projec  Eeserption: Roil access  ofe         Ecoan-ic Cost:   19 79  __1980          1901      Sl          Trffic:  (motly fruits A Sogeables)                Tra-os2ocLLCost SaiRsTR = 43%
market maw  -nde  -ostr-ti-o in the not-                  tO ~         0.81     1524       1.57      0547                      llt    ton -                         to-km  agia  cots 
skirts  fi I.E. (30 K.m) pins 4 i. of poetiol                                                                       GtLje _ 1903  1990  3005                       lR-.  (4I5;pas-d ;1/5gfr..el,OOP- 9 t.m.; lad~.7)= 3.3
track enswo1 hotwe.n Coscres ad Hnodo.                                                                               10-152   403   661
.q3    1~2 j~       354                        loll 13G =2.72 ; NGO  2.47; SG = 2.34
'sG     t      251~-                      Unit Innings
Total  306   725  1,166                               BG = 0.51   NC0 = 0.83; S50   0.96
3.ACCEISSTO. ROSARI-OPORT
Projectlesncjlino..Roll a--no  toon           Ecoomic Cost:  1979           1980                             Traffic: (graiss)                                 Tranpor- nt  aig
me   ri   io  to  1odor coorciW r             (Illiem)         4.73       4.23                             450 wagoss/doym26ldoys/yr-4j3:-s                    Too - km Magi-inl Costs(
Rosarlo  Pr(COlt,Ino  whh Is  o   h                       3                                                        wogo-n200kn = 981 million ton1-km/pr               Read (4/5 pav-d,1/5  rav1, c-p.-24 tons, lnd=.7)=1.78
ennlosie  'an o  the Rilway.                                                                                 87% nothe bend ganga and 137. anth-                Rail                       10          NG31  =1.38
4. REllAR PERMANijTIES1RPRLYMARMDL PLATA RO8
RI)
P-iac  Inscr-ipti-c  307.3 km of track             R_nm-ic Cost:  1979            1980       1901    ;9g2          Traffic:  1977  1933  1993  2000  2005                          Pass trains   Disto..ce  T,,tL.  time, her. end Searions
reealad replacement of Ielephone wire              :sll            4.79        10.61      10.61  11.51         Te-os(0) 2T:l 83334.)929542(n/e                                                  (kon)(o)
am   asile  facIlIitie  en31  km of Ime               .3                                                        Pas..$.9OW   3.95,  4.58    Withnot Pen                              03          382                  4.6
(nilliens)                                      With, Pro            95                               4.0
Pegt ten  200    250   297   362   400TIssai/tin06h
Pas  tro  5214  5991  7370  9901  114800T-0. 
s-venAR in crw and tral, capitl1 can:    Accid-ts:                   1977        1983   1990  2O0O  2003   'Track M,,i,te-o-  C~ t Sonings:
303.72/hr/pass train                      With-tr Pen   Sl (-rena)           5      5       7      0        O12,500/.lo:/yr nithot Project i-"-eolog PrePcrti-mtclY  with  ro-  t-cc9. after 1913                       ER0=117.
With Pco.      0(hypcthctilnal   )    0      0       0I          $ 3,000/Ikc/yr  ith project.
C-st/-c,id-st  $3361
5.  RERAB PERMANENT1 WAY (TBOIPPRLEY-1tSfAIF  BLA940L_BG)
9roR-e2D   g-Itino: 274 Inn of track remewa   147 kIns   Feonmic C,,-t    1979   1900   1901   1902   Traffic:                     1977   1953   1998   2000   2005  CS0-i.134OSp.4ds:                                       Total timc bnten.d
ef partial track troew1, 670 linor note- ni bridge   (3 nilli-o)                 1.63  14.72    19.12  2.07   Coos (nlno    01            1.4_0   020I -   Y.80   47345-                     Spend (Inc,/kr)     Distanc    stati-o  (h-
rehahilitti-n and the replo-e-e   cCtlpif             : ic                                                       Pans (000)       420    472    472    472    472                      Post ten  Pe-ight ten    (In-)        Poss ten   Igit trc
no552 kc' of list                                                                                              Fe-ight tees      1664   2063   3109   5205   0764  wichnet Pen.   57                 36           624       10.9          17.2
Pool tens         1976   2100   2100   7100   2100  With, Pro             75          40                      8.3          15.5
Inning  iii Crn andTroic topca  Cones:   Accidents       0977            1903  1990  2000  2003   Trook M,lite--c  Cost Svns
3'5'7.72/pass es/heT; 92.so0jfegt re/he.    With-ot Pro    1 (act-o1)           013  _175   _7T   _7t        1W2_500/Io/yr with not retw-lneeso   peop-ti-mtely with gross
With Pen       0 (hypochntical)  9   51    15    10             te-age after 1983
C-st/a-ideot: $3360                              $7750/kin/yr withost po-tio  en-w1 i-ee-io,g p-np-eto-tely with
gr..n too"oge after 1990.
$3000/k,,/yr noolminene    ith p-ojet.                                         PlRR:  ill
6.  T-EILXS PE1P1NAENT WAS (C7SCORDIA-POSADOS,IT
Pr,',et Description:  19 Rn, of tenok teonso  nod            Econoic Conc:   1979   1980   1901   1982   Traffic:                 1977   1987   1983   0990   2000   2003 CSsono   pends:                                Total cisin k~t-ad
1,26ln  emtr   fkig                 ailtto                     (3 cilli.nn       6_.08  7_73     5.96   2.51   Set tons (000)   409    984    595    679    020    020                          2moed (lKs/He)  Di.-   teatie-
"g, ti_ , -t-  ,f b,idg.   babili "ti-Pans (000)                                                      422    460    424    474    424    474                       Paso  Pei ghlt  cano   Pass           Preight
F-nigVht to.      2600   2912   2990   2990   2990   2990                      teo      tm       (,::
Pan.c. 0- 32    074    883    883    883    0823 Withe-t pro.    405   70.9                       9    14.98           29.17
With pro        56.5   23.5       39    10.58           25.45
4.00           3,72
Sa gi,, Gi- a-d Trail Calo   ots1:            A-cideots             1977          1982  1990  2000  2003  Trash   Mointn....- Cos.      avns
057.72/past to/he;: 092. 50/Cenight er/hr.   with-ot Pro   4 (-ot-l)                  5      5      3      5   (12,500 /Km/Ye cithont  renewa  in,o.e.si,,1 p-ep-etti..oely cih 9--gos   ont..age after 1903
With, Pee.      0 (Hypothetioni)    8        0      0      0   0 3,000/11cY/T  -ouo   aitsa         wick p-ejot                                                             EOR= 03%
C-st/a...id-t  3360
Snurr: Os-l, ot.CI
Peb-uay 1979



SECOND RATIWAY PROJECT
EconomIc Evaluation
7   10  PSIIOPARIENT WAy    TTIRO-ROSARIO;; BC)
Projec  ~Description: 6 las of track renewal, 52 linear   Economic Cost:   1979   1980   Traffic:                     1977  1983      1990    2000       2085     C-ersecial Speeds:
n'l8Thf rOT"Stl gd"Yhalitation and replanenent of                                  T'8    0.15   Toes  (050)          482   729       78        6         0                            pe   k/ritne Total time betend 8tations
telephono wires on 118 lao Of tine.                                                                 Pass  (million)  2.4   2.6    2.99          3.64     4.02                    Pass ti-n  Fceight trn    (la-)    PstisFeig ht tr.
Frgtn tens       2496  3095    3320        3664      3851    withou.t Pro.   80              45           303         3.8                 6.7
Pass tens       12272  1302    14988    18246   28145    with pro.              95           50                       3.2                 6.1
Saig  :  06-                 06.6-
Savings in Crew aed Train Capital Cents: Accidents:    1977            1983  1990  2000  2005  Track Maintenance Cost Savings
$S7.72/ps-  tn/hr; 92.50/freight It/h rWi~thout Pro. 10 -(atuasi)               11     T1     1      1        $12500/las/yr without prnject increasi.g proportionately with
with Pro.       2(hypothetical)  2         2      2      3         gross to..na5e after 1983
Clost/accident: $3368                                 $3000/las/yr with project                                                           iii:  497.
Prejet  csciptin: 54 lan of track renewal  EconOnlie Cost:  1979  1910  ' 9_01                     Trafift:              1977  1982  1983  1990  21001  2005   oinmeoca   pes
an]140 linear setrbfhcdarlnilita-    ($ o:illion)    1-21   1.72  2.50                           Tos(ctos              . 14  -1.39  -1.8-0  1.9   21    2,24                       Iod(a/r                 itneTtltn   aedsain
tia..                                                                                              Pass (lOS)             647   713   722   7222   7222    227                   Pass tro   Freight tin        (his)    foss t-n                  irYe-t
Frgt icon            2308  2790  2837  3042  2357  3528  Without Pro             28           42           g52          10.9                   20.3
Pass tr.s            1057  1111  1122  1122  1122  1127  With, Pro.,             82           45                       10.4                    18.9
Savings irs      0.5                     1.4
S~avings in Crow and Train Capitzalfools:   Accidents:               1977            1983  1990  2000   2005  Trank Mitnac    at  aig:
$37.72/pace, tr/hr; 92.50/treigl:i it/hr  Withou,t Pro.  6(antaal)                 7      7       5       1     512500/as/yr withent manalinw rain   proportionately
With Pro.       1(hypothetical)  1I        1        1       1       with gross tonnage after 19i3
Cost/accident: $5368                                   $3000/las/yr .cr                                                                 ERRi: 157.
Project Description: 244 kn at track is-       Iconosic Cast:  1979  1980  1981   1982  Traffic:                      1977  1983  1990  2000  21001  C -O-secia  Speeds:
nea,65 kn at partial track reneal, 85              (nilli-n)        6.21 11.37  14.69 2.01  Tons (nidllians)            1.41  1.09  2.03  7.24  2. 35                          Speed (Las/hjyj       Jislta-    Total tine hoten,d statli.ss
lisear n-tocs of bridgs. r-lsailitatian  and                                                        Pass (ooo)               632   756    716   316    716                   Pass ten   freigt_n           (in:)     Pas  ira,              fg-t ti
ths replarossos ef sires no  1: in of Sine.prt Irns                                                3036  3739  4016  4431  4657  Withas.t Pro           78           31           lit,        34.7                    31.7
Pans irns              1365  1450  1410  1450  1450  With Pro.              90           40                        11.9                   21.9
Savin,gs/tm.         1.9                     70
Saving   nCe   n   TanCptlCot: Acdns                                   1977             1983  1990  2000  2005   Track WimnnnCotSvns
$57.72/pa.. tse/hr; 92.50/frgt tr/he            Wiihnnt Pro.   7(csl                 '.20"   o6   21   -23    728/a/rwtotreea  nraigpo
With Pro.         7 (hypothelica1)    0        8      9      9        p-ntionately with gross tonnage after 1983.
Cost/accident: $3368                                      $ 7750/las/yr with-nt parsial renewl incroasiog
proportiona.tely with gr... tonnage after 1990
~3O00/AO/yrnn-at naintesan.rc  with project.                                  CRR1: 
Pisoget Dracripie:  125 Ins of track renewal a-:d  lEsomie Cost:  1979  1980  1981  Traffic:                            1977  1983  1990  7000  2005  issenil   peds
15 hr of partial track renewl                                ($mlin             .6364 99            os(ilon) 11                 .1 15    16          .66 dl /hr)                                       Distance   Total sin  het.end ntatisna
Pass  (000)          160   180   100    180    155                   Pass tin   Frit5$t train    (l-)          Paso inn                Ptte
Fegi t..s           3536  4667  4998   3528  5810  Without Pro.   35                   25            54           15.5                   21.1
Pass train           416   4:42   442   442   442  With Pen.             60            40                        -9.1                    13.6
Savings/Irs       6._4                    0 .2-
Saviogs in Crew and  rain Capitol Costs:Accidents:      19)77           1983  1990  7000  7005  Track Maintenance Cost Savinpg.:
$82.19/paso tn/hr1  68.31/freight tn/hr  Without Pen. 34(-nt-1a)                   44    46      51     52     $12500/lao/yr w,ithout renewal incrasing pro-
With Pro.    20(hypotl:ntieal)  26    28          30    '30    portisna.tel.y wish gross t onnage altec  1983
Cost/acc.ident:  $3368                               $7750/km:/yr without partial re-nwal increaing
1g.  SF501 g~~~~5yg5f5ff WAT  Ct:gDO8AT0Clf--p~~~~~~~~ NC)                                proportionately  with grassti   tonnageih  afterton  1990ft-199il:R:277
rjc   ecition:  11  las Of Partial  track renwal  CEonanic Csot:  1979  1900  Traffic:                  1977  1983  1990  2000  coaoeralSees
and  520 linear neters of kiNgs rehahili tattoo              oss-6    0~. 15  To.ns  (000)  8~03   921 98-7  10o9-1                        bead (lohe)             Dstanc    Total tine hei-ed stations
Poas  (000)      122    137   137   137                    Pass tin   Freigh   train    lo           as  i                   p   n
freight tnns   1768  2333  2500  2764  Without Pen.   47                    27             542          11.5                  20.1
Pans tens         728    773   773    773  With Pea.          60            33                                                 16.4
lavi,gs/tro    2.5                     3,7
av iegi  Crew and Train_Ca_pital Casts:  A-eldenta:                    1977         1983  1990  2000  Track Maintenance Cast Invingo:-
$82.19/pa.. tre/kr; 68.30/fel`ghtitr/hr  W-itho~tp Pr.17(actnal)                  -2 1    23     24       $1/50/k/yr without project
With Pro.,       6(hypothetioa1)   7        8       9      $3000/khn/yn noral maintenan..e with prcjeet                                            55RR: 43%
Cost/accident: $ 3360
$vitgm   Sank staff
Febrsocy 1979



19:C0ND RAILWAY PROJECT
Projetloeito:  34  o.f partial track re.essol    Po-oie Cost:  1979  1900  1991  Traffic:                            1977  1903   1990  2000  Coonril  pes
224 iUoce  :-tcrs of brige   eailitetico  and 0 iOn               ($ cillic.. )    0.7/7  0,48  T.30e  Tons  (000)   40~o4  5-24   5~24-  22-4                       Coeqk/k)               Dsace crltmeScn 
ot telephone line replecocioct.                                              Pass (990)    104   117    117   117                    laos ten   l1401oht..  trafo104   117(Ion)  Pos-ertro7L          00t O-
Pegt tee      1349  2298  3299  3390   Oitl:-s  Pro.-  44,               39)            290                                9,
Paso ceo       624   663   963   6f3  i-[,h Pr.            50            J  55.03
Se-iege/tee      0.0                     1.4
$L)t  tne  o  Tao   aitl Ctoots   Actid-ist:                  1077          1993  1990  2090  Track Mu        - -Coot la-e  5
$07. 19/paso  tr/hrir  60.30/fe ~iihc  nc,/hr  Wittiest Pen.- :3 (aetcol)         44      -4-          14750/lm:/ye wtthoct projectL
[With Pro.      9(kypsnfeticcl)  II          0  8         3900/Ic/yr morse  soitos            ink projet                                          0:10:  457
C.tns/aeeidnct: $3,368
PrcEecIloripi:  90    of  partial trak rec--l  fEo-mir Coot:  1979 1990  1901  TrfIc                                977  1903   1990  7000  tCeetr.iel S~eedo':
($ 00111c)  0.74 230   0.95  Tcs (000) 920  1131   [713   1340                         Sceed~1 (ehe)         lDist-c        TotL1 tine  hen, end steti-:
Pass (006) 274   1362         302   300                  P-c  tr-   ic e       rte      (r)       esieslo   e
Proc tree      909  1214   1302   1439  Witko-t Pro.   40                 37            140          4.0                     5* I
Pes  tens    IJ44  1374    1326  1326  Winki Pr-            12            40                         3.740
le-ings/rec          .9310
$/mcoo  to tew codTracetapaca  ccst:   Arrieoto   1977          199-3  1990  2011   track leicea-c   otIsii
$5l.77/pann  te/he;92.58/treighc  cr/r   WiSo   r. fotej                  3      7      0      $4750/be/yr oith.cec projectt
With Pro.        0(hypocheti-nl)   0         00            $3000/ho/yr corra  noneoo           sith p-j-ot                                     liR:  137.
Ccst/Aetdent! $3T9R
14.  01_11A11 PriRoAONt WAY  II.llAOtqo-DA _IECUIRIA, ICG)
$P$4f2>r_lor279          180  kn of partial  -e-wl   Ico--mi  tost:  0929   1980  1901  1992    I rs  i_ic:                  1973  1993  1990  2000    omcrjlCres
(1  itic    0.99   2.76  0).55  5.53    loe(oltoe    1.92  1.59   1.39   t.39                                    PreLIc/e              lstco Ttal-tso  ht  end -coijoes
Peso  (ill).         16    19    10    19                     Peso -tc   reigh  e           (too)    Peso trains         Proicks&h ten_
FPieilht cr-0     13(89  135  1035  1033    4nSeen  Pro          42           25           350           8  314
Paetco            t04,   [ I 1c    121   With, Proj.           47           29                         7.44                12.5
Sa-iogs/tr-      0.09                  i1 
Ceninco in trese and Train  epitel tnsts:    tirckdnots:  922      1993  1999  2000  sTock                   C-neonn totOjc:
397. 72/peon rr/hr; 92.50/f-etght ne/hr  Withooc Pro.  4(aoct-l)                  5       5      5      $750/1nn/yr lnkocit project
WinS Pro        O(1:ypocl:etirl)  0         0      0      $3000/ton/ye  -oros  e:ltna          ith p-ojnct                             ERR: 127.
-tos/o...elr-L      3340
leeico:93 Mic of partial crak re-own   leooci.. tooc:  1979 1900  1961   Traffic                          1977  1990  199 8   1990  2000toocil  edo
(4 " IIiic:    9.41 1.08  2.39   Ner rLos (000))           305   390   400   479   419                      Dpe    Oc         Is-        Tocltime Sot, en-d nrcnio-
Pans  (000)            366   399   424   434   424                      lane   Frei ght   Leoe       Peso tr-i-          Freightcr
ProuSt ic-n            364   009   423   506   423                      tn       nr -       So
Pa-cer-               1664  1010  1929  1929  1079  WitLoIr~~ pro.  54           20       123             2.27              4.13
WI th pro.      07     23.5                      1.50               5.23
tsatng  in teen _ad Tr,ctptlton                  Aceide-cs:            1977           1992  1590  7000i    Ta1k Maiet-oace toot  Sa-ipg_:
$52 72/Pen   ne/he; $92.59/fe-ight tn/hr   Wichoac pro.  5(-ctoel)                    6      6       6     $3750/lsYr ottlic-  projec
With, Pro.      0(lyppetkncI-a)       0      0      0      $3000/;5i/Yr norma  osoeoe    ith project                               ERR: 117.
tC-t/acident: $3368
SU.BURBeAN PERMANEN1T1 WAY REHIA1TLITAT3ON (MITRE)
Project lescniption: 59 km of creek, -eeol 1,tce          Ion-i  tosetn   1979  4980  1991  1962  Tretfie:                1977  1988    5990)  210i      2005  AnotTi: 25.2 Nm-  los  ronoc   oos    (C pen-kr)
Retino-Tigte aed Retirc-B.Mit-e; aet-mtle Sloe4                   (5 nilli-n)       5.94  7.43  9.51  9.09  PansnoCcc: 4.48; ll-,s  1.0; lOil: 0.83
sigoelliog berotce Meldoca.do cod Leon Co 1ee  e tenir                                                           ell
signal  at Reti-o Static  and the  -ehah of 23 p.0cc                                                           lsthoot Pro.    154, 0114    114    144        114    Podel S"plit c6 Snifike Not  bcyrdS  Rail if Project in
sehotaticos.                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~With Pco.  114  413    132.7  167.8  185.3  neqt _elperenid:      _______
torn:  .1; hen. .9
Train MaIntennc  tnn:                                             TORe: 827i.
Wi-thoor Pro :417/tream/kon/yr
Wink Pro.-       375/treioto/pr/y
1 7.  SATBURBAN PERMANEN83T WAY ORE0IAl].1'tA'TteN
(SAN MOARTIN)
Probrlseite:  33 too e  treek   EromicCots:   1979  1900- 1981  Tratt ic:                                          1973  1980  1999  2000o  2005   neoeTp: 21.2 en.  CotTosonte                                Cpes-Sn)
renwal  ..t.e. Retire and J.C. Pa-        ($ cila)          1.19  3.39  2.708 aoson-tr   .8   o~10  RoiL  08.5
(oillioo)
With-tn Po.,                  30   30    3o    38       30                               Model Split of T-nffic net tarried hy Rail it Peojeet is
With Pt..                     39   30.9  30.9  45    49.7                                oct  ep-neete-d : 
tars:  , 1;Ns9
Trcab  Mciotocacoc toot:                                         ERR: 197.
witn-ot Pee..: 417/train/ton/yr
with Pro.        375/teotn/tos/ye
boo: Back onsft
ickesa.ry 1979



ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Eva1nation
15.  SIiCRBAN PERMANFNT WAY REhABTLITATION (SARlfIENTO)
Pro ject _Descripti:  75 kI  of track renewal between   Economic Costs:  1979   1980)  1981  Traffic:             1977   1980   1990   2000   2005  Aver-ge Trip:  21.2 Em.  liit Transport Costs: (U  pas-im)
Onoc-Moreno and HNedo-Marmol and the rehab of 36              ($ million)    8.01  12.70  5.56  Passengers                                                                            Car:  4.48; Nun:  1.0; Rail:  0.85
power substations.                                                                                  (million)
Without Pro.  120  120    120    120    120                                Model Split of Traffic not taried by Rail if
with Pro,      120  121.2  148.3  178.3  196.9                             Poject is n't TmP len:'ted:___
cars:   . ; Bus .9
Train Maintenance Cast:                                     ERR: 147.
Without Project:  417/trln/lk./yr
With Project:      375/trami//k/yr
19.  28iUNTING LOCOMOTIVSS POE REPL.ACEINT
Umit Operating Cast for the Equivalent
Project Dnacriptioo:                                           Sconomic Cnst:  1979  0s980  Prod-civity of One New Diesel Lcoi 1                 Scrap Value:    75 tons a      $400/ton   30,000/st.s.r Ioen    ERrI"19%
ncrap:                         Replace with:                    ($ million)                               Old           New      Savings a
80 BC atea,:: shunting locos  32 BG diesel shooting locos                       7.48  6.61  8G         75,000        47,000      28,000
3 NG steam shunting locos   I NG diesel shunting locos                                      No        96,500        38,000      58,500
4 SG steam shunting locos   1 SG diesel shunting lames                                      SG        80,000        50,000      30,000
a/ The spread in operating costs is conserva-
tively assumed to grow at 5% per annum.
20. WAGONS FOR REPLACELNENT
Unit Maintenance Costs for th:e Equivalent   Average
Project Description:                                         Economic Coot:  1979  1980  Prodnutivity of a New Wagon                        Scrap V.1e:  15 ton    $400   $6,000/wagon   ERR= 13%
Scrap:                 R~~~~~~~eplace with:            (S  ilin                                            Old    New  favi:g -       ca  a:e    9tn      40      i00wgn IR17
23 BC grain 1o)pper wagons   12 BG grain hopper wagons                       4.28  8.5S  Hoppers & Tankers   2,560   320   2,240
37 NG mineral wagons          19 NG in mineral wagons                                     Mineral Wagons         2,520   630   1,890
3 0G wine tankers             2 BG wi-:e tankers
256 BG high sided wago-:a    128 BG high sided wagono                                       Ni8k _ idd            L,280   160   1,120
a- T)se spread in operating cots is assumd
to grow at 2.5% per annum.
21.  LOCOMOTIVES AND WAGONS FOR MORE REVENUE TRAFFIC:  (SEcludes platform  and multiuse wagons needed for service traffic)
Project Description: line locomotives (20 BG);               Economic Cost:  1979  1980   Transport Cost Savings:
grain hoppers (351 BG, 209 NG, 175 1G); mineral               ($ million)                                                   Grain   Mineral   Auto       Wine             Savings Associated with Purchase
wagons (353 BG, 122 NG, 100 SG); auto carriers                                 4.54 39.23                                   Hopper   Wagon   Carrier  Tanker              of5  Additional Locos                       ERR- 217
(180G), and wine tankers (58 BG).                                                            Annual traffic/vehicle         BG=48  BG= .44  BG=.09   BG-.47               Annual traffic/Ieee           37.5
(million ton-ki)             NG-.32  NG' .54  NG0.09                         (million ton-km)
SG;-33  SG= .24                               Road Unit Cost (c/ton-kI)   1.8
Road Unit Coat (f~/ton-kso,      1.8    2.65      4.9'      1.04             gail Deft Cos t (f/ton-ho,)/ 1.25
Rail Unit Coat (f/ton-k.)/  _G=1.0  BG= .96   3.42           .92             Unit Saving (p/ton-km)         0.55
NG=1.17 NG=1.17
SG=1.48 SG=2.2                                 a/
Unit Saving (f/ton-kI)        BG.8  B-1.69   1.48            .92                Exclodes capital cost of
NG-.63  NG-1.51   1.48                          ees. which are included in the
SG-32  8G=0.45                                economic costs of this project.
a/ Bxcludes capital cost of wagons and    line loc.s (needed as
motive Power for these wagons) which are included in the
economic costs of this project.
2Z.  LIGHT TRACE MAINTENANCE EQUI PMENT
Economic Cost:  1979  1980  1981                           Cost/Em/yr
5 yearn useful life                    ($ million)    1.83  5.18   4.9                         Without  With  Saving/                     ND to be 3iaintained                                                 ERR-387
Pro,   Pro.  NDm/yr     199 98   1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
Primary Network  21337 -20975   462         1860  2900  3710  4270  4970  5600  6200  6800
Secondary "        2850   2697   153       2000  3000  5000  7000  9000 10000 10000 10000
Tertiary  "        2525   2410   115        2000  3000  5000  7000  9000 10 10080 10000
Source. Sank staff
Yfe5ruary 1979



ARGENTINA
SECONQ RAILWAY PROJECT
Eoononit Evaluation
22. GRASS CETTTNG TRACK MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT:
_Eno0amiC Cout   1979  1980  1981                  Maintenanc  Cot/km/yr (US$)                                                                                             ERR56h
(05$ ojilion)  0.02  1.31  1.31                   Wlthoot oqaip. 1200
With equip.       150
Saving/Im/yr    1050
KE  to he maintained with oqoipoe-t: 750 kl.
Ttol onn-al benefit:  1050 x 750 a US$787,500
Uionfal life * 10 yes.
24.   ENCLOSINC SUBUTRBAN STATIONS AN50 INSTAILIN  ICKETCINRTC MACHINES
Projeet Description:  Enelosing ctatia:-o and installing ticketing                      acoir Costs:  1979  1980  1981  1982                Reveon.  B-oefit- With ond Witho-t th
narhi-ns io the suburban tyctc- to -eduoe fare evasion:  87 stationc                    ($ million)       2,41  5<87  7.7  -10.0
(pins uncool nachi-e nilnt.naoc c.ost equa                         1979      1980   1981    1982   1983   1984    1990
to 5% of the puecbaso price)                        Bclgranc
With         4.30                            --                4.30
Witl:oolt    3.81-                           --                5.61
Savmiongs    0.69                              -0.69
With        25.84                                         >  25.81
Witli:ot    23.60              -                           > 23.60
Savings.     2.24            -2.24
Mitre
With                 14.98  32.10  49.22--                 >49.22
Withoot               14.27  29.25  46.37    -              >p46.37
Savings               0.71   2.85   2.05               -      2.85
San Mactic
With                   9.08  09.52  30.42-                  >30.42
Withot                 9.08  18016  28.60 ---                28.60
Savings                0       1.36    1.82  8---    -_    0.02
Totl Savings  2.93    3.64   7.14   7.60 --                      7.60   ERR   96%
Solrcc: 0a-k staff
No-eb-Er 19V8



- 78 -
ARGEINIERA
TABLE 4.2
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return
Sensitivity Tests
Project                                    Base Case                 18 '             2b/              3$!             4/
1. Access to Silos                                       20                     18              19               19              16
2. Access to B.A. Central Market                         43                     42               40              41              37
3. Access to Rosario Port                                28                     26              25               25              22
4. Rehab. Perm. Way (Temperley_Mar del Plata)            I1                     11               11              10              10
5. Rehab. Perm. Way (Temperely-Bahia Blanca)             11                     10               11               10              9
6. Rehab. Perm. Way (Concordia-Posadas)                  13                     13               1-              12              11
7. Rehab. Perm. Way (Retiro-Rosario)                     49                     49               -6               46
8. Rehab. Perm. Way (Rosario-Tucuman)                    15                     14               14               13             12
9. Rehab. Perm. Way (Jose C.Paz-Mendoza)                 23                     15               15               14             13
10.Rehab. Perm. Way (Santa Fe-Tostado-Pinedo)            27                     26               25              25              22
ll.Rehab. Perm. Way (C5rdoba-Tucuman)                    43                     42               40              IC              36
12.Rehab. Perm. Way (Tucuman-Guemes)                     15                     14               14              13              12
13.Rehab. Perm. Way (V.Constituci6n-V.Tuerto)            13                     13               13              12              11
14.Rehab. Perm. Way (H.Renanc6-Darregueira)              12                     -                                11              10
15. Rehab. Perm. Way (Canada Verde-J.Daract)             11                                      IC 10             9              9
16. Suburban Perm. Way Rehab. (Mitre)                    12                      12              11               11              1
17. Suburban Perm. Way Rehab. (San Martin)                13                     13              12               12             11
18. Suburban Perm. Way Rehab. (Sarmiento)                14                      14              13               13             12
19. Shunting loconotivcs for Replacementr                19                     19               18               17             18
20. Wagons for Replacement                               13                     13               12               11             10
21. Locomotive and Wagons for more traffic                21                     18               19              19             14
22. Light Track Maintenance Pbuinment                     38                     38              3R               32              32
23. Grass Cutting Track Maintenance Equipment             56                     56               56              46              46
24. Enclosing Sib. Stat. & Ticketing Machines             96                     96               96              62              62
Weighted Average                                    a1.9                   20.4            20.1               18             16
a/ A 30% reduction in the rate of growth of freight traffic.
b/ A shortfall of 10% in the attainment of the loco availability and wagon turnaround time targets.
c/ A 10% increase in all economic costs.
d/ Sensitivity tests 1, 2 and 3 together.
Source: Banik staff
November 1978



- 79 -
TABLE 5.1
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
FA -_Summarv Cash Flow- Statements - 1974-1977
(Millions of US$)
1974        1975         1976         1977           Totals
Uses
Net Cash Operating
Deficit                    355         399          353           289            1,396
Loan Repayments             174         185           173           52              584
Invest:ments                108          93          101            88              390
637         677          627          429            2,370
Sources
Loans - Foreign              25           5            21           32               83
Local               312         212          143            7               674
337         217          164           39               757
FONIT-/                      86          43           44            36              209
Other                                                               45               45
Government Subsidies        214         417          419           309            1,359
637         677          627          429            2,370
1/ Fondo Nacional de Infraestructura del Transporte
Source: FA
July 1978



- 80 -
ARGENTINA                               TABLE 5.2
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
FA - Income and Expense Statements
Actual 1974 to 1977
(Millions of Pesos)
1974        1975         1976         1977
Operating Revenues
Freight                               1,788        3,759       24,222       62,981
Suhurban Passengers                     567        1,346        6,968       22,830
Intercity Passengers                    713        1,813        8,645       20,025
Other                                    197         458        2,975       _ 5,991
3,265       7,376       42,810      111,827
Working Expenses
Personnel Costs                       5,165       17,037       65,220      163,778
Materials                                352       1,197        7,995       22,100
Fuel and Lubricants                     419        1,035        7,665       19,501
Contractors                             108          329        1,815        4,984
Other                                     83         258        1,458        4,579
6,127      19,856       84,153
Operating Loss Before Depreciation          2,862       12,480      41,343      103,115
Lepreciation                                  304          267          360      13,253
Operating Loss Before Financial Charges  3,166          12,747      41,703      116,368
Financial Charges and Non-operating
.xpenses (net)                             123          385        4,033        7,353
Net Loss                                    3,289       13,132       45,736     123,721
Working Ratic                                 188          269          196         192
Operating Ratio                               197          273          197         204
Exchange rate:  pesos to US$                    8.87        27.4        150         400
Source:  FA and Bank Staff
Febrnary 1970



ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
FA Income and Expense Statements
Actual - 1974 to 1977,5 Estimate 1978 and Forecast 1979 to 1982
(US$ million Equivalent)
1974       1975         1976        1977         1978        1979        1980       1981         1982
Operating Revenues
Freight                    201.6       137.3       161.5       157.5        199.5       229.1       249.4      275.6         304.2
Suburban Passengers         63.9        49.1        46,5        57.1         86.7       102.9       112.2      117.6        123.0
Intercity Passengers        80.4        66.2        57.6        50.1         69.2        71.6        74,4       78.5          78.5
Other                       22.2        16.7        19.8        14.9         15.6         7.5          7.5        7.5          7.5
368.1      269.3        285,4          .6        371.0       411.1       443.5      479.2        513.2
Working Expenses
Personnel Costs            582.3       622.0       434.8       409.4        428.1       405.5        405.5    405.5         405.5
Materials                   39.7        43.7        53.3        55.3         77.4       129.0        133.0    116.6          121.6
Fuel and Lubricants         47.2        37.8        51.1        48.8         61.5        49.8         47.6      46.6          48.8 X
Contractors                 12.2        12.0        12.1        12.5         20.0        30.4         32.5      34.9          37.4  '
Other                        9.4         9.4         9.8        11.4         18.5         7.8           7.5      8.0           8.6
690.8       724.9       561.1       537.4        605.5       622.5        626.1    611.8         621.9
Operating Loss Before
Depreciation               322.7       4-55.6       275.7      257.8        234.5       211.4        182.6    132.6          108.7
Depreciation                  34.3         9.7         2.4         33.1        121.7      127.2        128.6    135.2          141.0
Operating Loss Before
Financial Charges          357.0       465.3       278.1       290.9         356.2      338.6        311.2    267.8         249.7
Financial Charges and
Non-Operating Expenses    13.8          14.1        26.8         18.4         19.9       32.1         43.8       51.1         43.4
Deficit                      370.8       479.4       304.9        309.3        376.1      370.7         355.0    318.9         293.4
Working Ratio                188         269         196          192          163        151          141       127           121
Operating Ratio                -           -           -197                               182          170       156           149 
Source:  FA and Bank Staff
February 1979



- 82 -
TABLE 5.4
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
FA - 1976 Revenues and Costs by Service
(Millions of US$)
Broad    Standard    Narrow               Share of
Gauge     Gauge         Gauge    Total   Losses
Freight        Revenues                         114.0        14.0        40.8    168.8
Long-run marginal costs          111.0        21.6        72.0    204.6
3.0        (7.6)      (31.2)   (35.8)    28.5%
Buenos Aires  Revenues                           39.8         2.2         5.6      47.6
(Suburban      Long-run marginal costs           57.9         3.4        10.9      72.2
Services)
(18.1)       (1.2)       (5.3)   (24.6)    19.6%
Suburban       Revenues                           0.9          -          1.7       2.6
Services       Long-run marginal costs            6.6         _           6.6      13.2
(Other
Cities)                                         (5.7)         -         (4.9)   (10.6)       8.5%
Intercity      Revenues                          45.9         4.5         8.8      59.3
Passenger      Long-run marginal costs           58.4         8.9        18.9      86.3
Services
(12.5)       (4.4)      (10.1)   (27.0)    21.6%
Postal         Revenues                           4.3         0.8         1.9       7.0
Services       Long-run marginal costs           22.3         2.6         9.4      34.3
Parcel Post
and Baggage                                     (18.0)       (1.8)       (7.5)   (27.3)    21.8%
Total          Revenues                         204.9        21.6        58.9    285.4
Total          Long-run marginal costs          256.2        36.6       117.8    410.6
(51.3)      (15.0)      (58.9)  (125.2)    100%
Fixed Costs                                     148.4        22.5        83.1    254.0
Total Operating Deficit                        (199.7)      (37.5)     (142.0)  (379.2)
Share of Losses                                  52.7%        9.9%       37.4%   100%
Shares of Revenues                               71.8%        7.6%       20.6%   100%
Revenues and Long-Run Marginal Costs per Traffic Unit
(USi)
Freight        Revenue                            1.58        1.96        1.37      1.55
Long-run marginal costs            1.54        3.02        2.42      1.88
Buenos Aires  Revenue                             0.57        0.72        0.68      0.59
Suburban       Long-run marginal costs            0.83        1.11        1.33      0.89
Other          Revenue                            0.70         -          0.76      0.74
Suburban       Long-run marginal costs            5.11         -          2.95      3.74
Intercity      Revenue                            1.00        0.82        0.86      0.96
Passengers    Long-run marginal costs             1.27        1.63        1.85      1.40
Source: FA and Bank Staff
July 1978



ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
FA Balance Sheets
As of December 31, 1971 to 1977
(Millions of Pesos)
ASSETS                              1971        1972        1973        1974        1975        1976         1977
Current Assets
Cash and Bank Balances                          73.1        85.5       154.4       490.5       899.7   5,114.5    11,500.0
Accounts Receivable (Net)                      681.6       913.4    1,086.0    1,990.6    3,820.0  16,165.0    34,210.0
Materials and Supplies                         425.3       533.7       837.8    1,079.0    2,096.1  13,942.0    39,798.0
1,180.0    1,532.6    2,078.2    3,560.1    6,815.8  35,221.5    85,508.0
Current Liabilities
Sundry Creditors                             1,234.4    1,177.0    1,576.7    2,765.4    7,631.4  24,458.2    76,206.0
Provisions and Accruals                        112.5       225.7       271.2       336.3       925.0   6,339.7    19,052.0
1,346.9    1,402.7    1,847.9    3,101.7    8,556.4  30,797.9    95,258.0    m
Net Working Capital                              (166.9)     129.9       230.3       458.4   (1,740.6)  4,423.6    (9,750.0)
Fixed Assets - Net                             2,812.2   32,180.1   32,909.2    32,615.4  34,261.2 2.11,809.4 1,093,535.0
Deferred Assets                                  1Al7.1      243.3        40f. 8      289.9   1, 72.6   6i,r0 n         ,220.0
Total Assets                                 2,792.4   32,553,3   33,180.3    33,363.7  33,793.2 122,243.9 1,098,005.0
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Long-Term Debt and Supplier's Credits            777.2    1,120.6    1,583.8        2,985.9  12,235.7  49,878.7   105,288.0
Deferred Income                                    3.9         5.1         8.3         11.3       55.1      168.8      2,976.0
Government Equity                              2,011.3   31,427.6   31,588.2    30,366.5  21,502.4  72,196.4   989,741.0
2,792.4   32,553.3   33,180.3    33,363.7  33,793.2 122,243.9 1,098,005.0
H
Source: FA
February 1979



ARGENTINA
SECONID RAILWAY PROJECT
FA Balance Sheets
As of 31st December 1973 to 1976, 1977 Estimated and 1978 to 1982 Forecast
(Millions of US$)
ASSETS                        1973      1974       1975      1976       1977      1978       1979     1980      1981       1982
Cuirent Assets
Cash and Bank Balances      16.5      24.5        18.0     18.0      19.2       20.0       20.0     20.0      20.0      20.0
Accounts Receivable (Net) 116.2       99.5        76.4     57.0      57.0       60.0       55.0     50.0      45.0      40.0
Materials and Supplies      89.6      53.9        41.9     49.1      66.3       75.0       95.0    100.0      78.0      62.0
222.3     177.9      136.3    1247.1     i2.5       155.0      170.0    170.0    143        122.0
Current Liabilities
Sundry Creditors          168.6      138.3      152.6      86.3     127.0      105.0     100.0      95.0      90.0      85.0
Provisions and Accruals    29.0       16.8        18.5     22.4       31.8      20.0       21.0     22.0      23.0        __.
197.6     155.1       171.1    1o8.7     158.8      125.0      139.0    131.0    118.00    110.0
Net Working Capital           24.7      22.8       (34.8)    15.4      (16.3)     30.0       31.0     39.0      25.0       12.0 4-
Fixed Assets- Net          6,500.0   6,500.0    6,500.0  6,560.o   6,005.8   6,075.2   6,249.1  6,509.7  6,775.7   7,095.5
Deferred Assets                4.6       4.5        25.5     21.2       23.7      40.0       30.0     20.0      10.0       -
Total Assets             6,529.3   6,537.3    6,490.7  6,596.6   6,013.2   6,145.2   6,310.1  6,568.7  6,810.7   7.107.5
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Long-Term Debt and
Suppliers Credits          169.4     149.3       244.7    175.9     175.5      335.2      469.9    571.6    595.8       591.2
Deferred Income                0.9       1.2         1.1      o.6        5.0        -                    -        -
Government Equity          6,359.0   6,386.8    6,244.9  6,420.1   5,832.7   5,810.0   5,840.2  5,997.1  6,214.9   6,516.3
6,529.3   6,537.3    6,490.7  6 596.6   62013.2   6j145.2   6 310.1  6,568.7  6 810.7   72107.5
Debt/Equity Ratio             3/97     2/98        4/96     3/97       3/97      5/95       7/93      9/91     9/91       8/92
Source:  FA and Bank Staff                                                                                                       r
February 1979



- 85 -
TABLE 5.7
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT'
Analysis of Operating Results By Gauge 1979-1982
(Millions of US$)
1979
Broad        Standard   Narrow
Gauge         Gauge      Gauge        Total
Total Revenues                           306.8            28.6       75.7       411.1
Total long-run variable costs            302.9            33.3      101.4       437.6
3.9            4.7       25.7        28.0
Fixed Costs                              203.0            24.5       84.6       312.1
Total operating losses                   199.1            29.2      110.3       340.1
Operating ratio                          165.0           202.0      246.0       182.0
Working rates                            137.0           174.0      203.0       151.0
1980
Total Revenues                           336.5            30.2       76.8       443.5
Total long-run variable costs            305.1            33.4     102.0        440.5
31.4            3.2      (25.2)        1.1
Fixed Costs                              203.4            24.5       86.3       314.2
Total operating losses                   172.0            27.7      111.5       313.1
Operating ratio                          151.0          190.0      245.0       170.0
Working ratio                            125.0           165.0      203.0       141.0
1981
Total Revenues                           361.0            33.2       85.0       479.2
Total long-run variable costs            301.5            33.3      101.2       436.0
59.5           (0.1)      16.2        41.2
Fixed costs                              201.2            24.2       85.6       311.0
Total operating :Losses                   141.7           24.3      101.8       269.8
Operating ratio                          139.0           173.0      220.0       156.0
Working ratio                            114.0           148.0      179.0       127.0
1982
Total Revenues                            382.9           36.4       93.9       513.2
Total Latng-run variable costs           308.7            33.7     102.9        445.3
74.2            2.7        9.0        66.9
Fixed costs                              205.5            24.7       87.4       317.6
Total operating losses                   131.3            22.0       96.4       250.7
Operating ratio                          134.0           160.0      203.0       149.0
Working ratio                            109.0           137.0      165.0       121.0
Source: Bank Staff.
September 1978



- 86 -
ARGENTINA                                     TABLE 5.8
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Forecast 1980 Operating Results by Railway Service
(US$ millions)
Broad           Standard         Narrow
Gauge           Gauge            Gaue          Totals
(Urquiza)       (Belgrano)
Freight Service
Revenues                           165.5             14.5            69.4           249.4
Long-run variable costs            137.2             17.9            69.0           224.1
28.3            (3.4)             0.4           25.3
Suburban Passenger Services
Revenues                            96.8              4.4            11.0           112.2
Long-run Variable costs             85,5              4.5            18.4           108.3
11.3            (0.1)           ( 9.4)           3.9
Intercity Passenger Services
Revenues                            64.2              6.9             3.3            74.4
Long-run variable costs             58.7              8.2             4.6            71.5
5.5            (1.3)            (1.3)           2.9
Parcel Post Baggage and
Postal Service
Revenues                             4.5              0.9             2.1             7.5
Long-run variable costs             23.7              2.8            10.0            36.5
(19.2)           (1.9)            (7.9)         (29.0)
Total Revenues                       331.0             26.7             85.8          443.5
Total Long-run Variable Costs        305.1             33.4           102.0           440.5
25.9            (6.7)           (16.2)           3.0
Fixed Costs                          203.4             24.5            86.3           314.2
Total Operating Losses              (177.5)           (31.2)         (102.5)         (311.2)
Revenues and Long-run
Marginal Costs per unit - USi
Freight
Revenue per ton-km                   1.90             1.90            1.90            1.90
Long-run variable cost per           1.58             2.34            1.89            1.71
ton-km
Suburban Passengers
Revenue per pass-km                  1.35             1.35            1.35            1.35
Long-run variable cost per
pass-km                            1.19             1.38            9.25            1.30
Intercity Passengers
Revenue per pass-km                  1.80             1.80            1.80            1.80
Long-run variable cost per
pass-km                            1.65             2.14            2.53            1.73
Source: FA and Bank Staff
July 1978



- 87 -                                TABLE 5.9
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
FA Cash Flow Forecast 1978-1982
(US$ million)
1978       1979       1980        1981        1982
Uses of Funds
Net Loss                         376.1       370.7      355.0       318.9      293.4
Less:  Depreciation              121.7      127.2       128.6       135.2      140.0
254.4      243.5      226.4       183.7      153.4
Principal Repayments on Debt      39.0        45.6       91.8      119.0       102.2
Advances to Suppliers             27.0          -          -           -          -
Investment Plan                  191.1      301.1       389.2      401.2       459.8
Total Uses of Funds          511.5      590.2       707.4      703.9       715.4
Sources of Funds
Financial Institutions            69.6       81.0        55.7       27.7        45.8
Suppliers                         27.0       41.8        43.5       26.3        27.3
Advances Made in Previous Years   6.1         6.2         5.4        6.6         3.4
Special Financing
to Finance Investment Plan      45.5          -           -           -          -
to Finance Operating Deficit   50.5           -           -           -          -
Proposed IBRD Loan I                -         7.0        48.0o      41.0           -
Other Financing to be Arranged      -        44.3        4o.9       42-6
Total Financing              198.7      180.3      193.5       144.2       97.6
Sale of Railway Assets            11.9        7.7         5.7        7.1          -
FONIT
to Cover Operating Losses       26.5       30.0       31.5        33.0       34.5
to Finance Investment Plan      80.9       74.2       77.9        81.8       85.9
Ministry of Economy
to Cover Operating Losses      177.4      213.8      280.2       317.9      265.8
to Finance Investment Plan      16.1        9.0         -           -
Special Budget for Suburkan
Railway Investment               -        75.5      18.6        119.9      231 6
Total Sources of Funds       511.5      590.2      707.4       703.9      715.4
Source: FA and Bank Staff
February 1979



- 88 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Studies
I.   Technical Advisory Assistance (Planning Department)
The Planning Department of FA is weak in the areas of project
evaluation and financial analysis. An economist, financial analyst,
and engineer would be engaged as a team to train planning staff.
11. Training Abroad (Research, Design and Standards Office)
FA needs a Research, Design and Standards Office (RDSO) for
preparing specifications and designs and for doing research on
technical problems peculiar to FA. To begin with, it is proposed
to form an initial unit by selecting three engineers, one from
each of the three departments (mechanical, track and signaling/
telecommunications), who would study similar organizations on
other railways and formulate a scheme for the creation of
such an organization in FA. The Bank would finance the study
tour for these engineers and aid FA in the selection of the
initial team.
III. Studies to be Contracted by the Subsecretariat of Transport
(a) Master Plan for the Suburban Railway
This study would exa ine all aspects of the suburban railway
service in Buenos AIres including: organization, operations,
tariffs, investments and traffic as well as the interaction between
this service and the urban economy and the rest of the transport
system in Buenos Aires. It would, in particular, study the question
of separating the suburban rail service from FA and creating a new
company.
(b) Long Distance Passenger Services
This study would employ economic and financial analysis to
determine which long distance passenger services should be
discontinued and which, if any, should be improved.
(c) Uneconomic Lines
This study would employ economic and financial analysis to
determine which lines and stations should be closed to traffic and
where facilities should be physically removed. The narrow and
standard gauge subsystems would be given particular attention.



- 89 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
IV. Studies to be Contracted by FA
(a) Motive Power, Rolling Stock and Workshops
This study would determine FA's scrapping, rehabilitation and
purchase requirements for locomotives (including shunting
locomotives), freight cars and passenger coaches for the period
1981-1983. Based on the requirements thus worked out, a program
would be prepared for the rationalization of the maintenance
workshops, taking into account the work being done by
SOFRERAIL on the reorganization of the mechanical department
and workshops.
(b) Signaling and Telecommunications
This study would develop an integrated plan for signaling and
telecommunications consistent with the needs of the redimensioned
railway system.
(c) Manpower Plan
This study would develop a manpower plan for FA, based on the
redimensioned railway system indicating the departmental
composition through 1983.  The study would indicate how this
plan could be achieved in terms of recruitment, training and
salary policies.
V.   Feasibility Studies
(a) New Track and Civil Works Capacity
This study would determine the economic and technical feasibility
of building a new track workshop. The study would identify the
most economic location and scale.
(b) Container Operations
This study would identify and prepare a container project for FA
if one is found to be economically justified.



-9  -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule and Costs
Estimatef.
Forei n Exchange
ost
1 9 79               1 9 8 0          (us 000)
Planning Department                            8 me.x 3 cons=  54man- onth ;            460
Research, Design and
Standards Office                                 L2x4 = 48 man- onth                  400
Suburban Rail Master Plan                      12x4 =    man mont Is                    408
Long-Distance                                  9x3   27 man-                            230
Passenger  Service                           mont s
9x3 = 27 man-                           230
Uneconomic Lines                               mont s
Motive Power, Rolling                                    9x4   36   '                   306
Stocks and Workshops                                  mont s
Signalling and                                          9x4   36 : ian-                 306
Telecommunications                                    mont s
Manpower Plan                                  .                    r4-4 , 4 Tos
6x2 = 12 nan                            102
Track and Civil Works Workshop                 mont s
(feasibility)                                6x2 = 12 nan                             102
Container Handling Facilities                  mont s
(feasibility)
Subtotal                                                                     US$2,748.oo
Contingencies                                                                     252.00
Total                                                                        US$3,000.00
Estimated costs for consultants are taken as US$8,500 per man-month.
Source: FA and Bank Staff
November 1978



- 91 -
ANNEX 2
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.  General Reports and Studies on the Transport: Sector
Al.  Plan Nacional de Transporte; Plan de Corto Plazo, Antecedentes
Historicos 1965-1977, Argentina, November 1977.
A2.  Estudio Preliminar del Transporte de la Region Metropolitana,
Ministerio de Obras y Servicios Publicos, Argentina 1972.
A3. A Long Range Transportation Plan for Argentina, Ministry of
Public Works and Services, Argentina 1962.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bi. La Evolucion Historica y Projecciones por Producto de los
Traficos Ferroviarios, CONARSUD, Asesoramiento y Consultoria
S.A., Argentina, December 1977.
B2. Ferrocarriles Argentinos, Review of Development Plan UNDP,
Italconsuilt, Italy, December 1977.
B3. Estudio de Factibilidad Economica - Financiera: Electrificacion
Linea Roca CONARSUD A y C.S.A., Argentina, December 1977.
B4. Operating Statistics, Ferrocarriles Argentinos 1970 - 1977.
B5. Ferrocarriles Argentinos - Historical Budget and Finance Data.
B6.  Railway Tariff, Inflation and Exchange Ratio Data.
B7. Personnel Data.
B8. Management Studies - (CONARSUD, CONASEC).
C.   Working Papers
Cl. Notes on the Forecast of Freight Traffic by Commodities.
C2. Analysis of 1976 and 1977 Operating Statistics.
C3.  Costing Analysis by Subsystem - Ferrocarriles Argentinos.
C4. Debt Service and Financing Plan.
C5. Forecast Operating Results.
C6. Nuevas Planillas de Locomotoras (28, 6, 78).
September 1978



ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Organization of FA
Presidnt                                             I Ioard    of  I
Oporatiom          ~~~Relavon,,Adi
11-11-_ 1 F1 1_ = l
E
0  -  0                       g      E        0                C5       Hr   ~n   i        --         ~      ~t
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~
L - - -J   I                    I                I-                                                                                                           - - - -
. 5                                   |       l l    Mitre     l l   San Martin   l l   Belgrano    l l  Sarmiento S  M   Unquiea
O                                }              l  l  R a ilw a y   l  l   R a ilw a y   l  l   R a ilw a y   l    R ail w a y  lRa ilw a y  R a ilw a y                                             o
World Bank - 19286    -



ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Organization of Component Railways of FA1'
Vice President
nndu aafc                                                          Comercia                   c                      Ec                                             Mechanical                                           ive
r ~~~~~~~eltos                                                                                                   L     _                          o
Training               Operation               Prometion                Control                  Ralling                 Traclk                   Locos                 Pussrchase                 Rier
Personnel                 Tech                   Claims                  Salary                   Energy                  Works                                          Inspecton
4   Costs  l  4        Zones                    Zones                     eTreaury d                                                             S   T                Workshops      lnvntorY
j   Unions  l                                                   q      Accounts    |z| Zones                                                     Zones
Each of the sin railways   Mitre
Sarmiento /
Roca
San Martin    has a basic organization indicated in this chart
Belgrano
Urquiza    J
2] Signal and telecommunications
Source: FA
May 1978                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVo,ld Bank - 192W a



~~~~F=F;:                          ,                                                     - ,    ir   /                  f         0       R    A: ZD>         ,. ti          I    
SPertoe > i 0 0 0 g # -ARG-NTINA: -SS;g %Eiffi<4_
:4;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ VD  Ai  y ,,
r  E'usvl    v-      
r   3 (I bco<                                                   \\t> /T                                                       '                                                 '                   !'%
:   l    /    E    /   CAT^PhA3CA  \  Dg  9  <X< t g y o 2X ) 3 L r  * ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f:
r   ,              k         LA RIOJ~~~~~UCUA                                                                                                                 O    Lou$A.. @Con@155      z s2; iS      
rnt ~            ~~~ ~~                                                  ~         ~~~~~~~~ M Ir                                                                              E \    4    7 t   FtSSsm;y      e-sRiStii9WY@ie  J
i  '                         ti        ~        ~        ~~~~~~~CATA.ARe   CA                                     M           /      s                    3dj  da          tt+tt         CA ee
b VC>*  < t =N A ~~~.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P -'  '                                                                                                                             ;   
5AN                                                                  R.                                                                                                  w  l-\     .    r '3- =>"Ax0           e        0   o   o   r   1
N IUI                                                                                                                                                              3   1r' ;' 
I     /  l  O."d5~=~'~~~64 vVou       63_  d'5'''6



BRD1
4CC C                                                                                       6,2CC                                                                                                               ACCAC
SONAMRA
;V
H
,2CC,2
ARGENTINA
ARGENTINE RA]LWAYS
BUENOS AIRES METROPOlITAN AREA
CC UCCAY 42240CC
426CC   M idA  rCUMCF OCCPACCFCC0C 10CC 4TIICWACCCSC
ACCCALNACCCORCC CJ,CCCACOC YCACC%CD.7
        C4LT 2CI                                            -   -
(
CAIUFCS
CC CC  CCCCC tCL2ACICANO



