Document of                   F   L  ECOPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report Ne. P-2489-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE ARGENTINE RAILWAYS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
March 15, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only tn the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
June 1977 /1                      March 1979
Currency Unit - Argentine Peso ($a)
US$1               $a400                     $al,100
US$1 million   -  $a400 million              $al,100 million
$a 1 million   -  US$2,500                   US$910
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
FA    -  Ferrocarriles Argentinos
(Argentine Railways)
SST   -  Sub-Secretaria de Transporte
(Sub-Secretariat of Transport)
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
/1 Exchange rate at the time of appraisal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Argentine Railways (FA)
Guarantor:          The Argentine Republic
Loan Amount:        US$96.0 million equivalent
Loan Terms:         Fifteen years including three years of grace,
at 7% per annum.
Project
Description:      The objective of the project is to strengthen FA through
rationalization of its system, rehabilitation of its
track and equipment and improvement of its management to
enable FA to concentrate on traffic for which it has a
competitive advantage (principally long haul bulk traffic).
These measures should reduce, and eventually eliminate,
FA's financial dependency on the Government. The project
comprises of a number of sub-projects which are expected
to begin in 1979 and 1980, as follows: (a) rehabilitation
of track, bridges and communications, and partial track
renewal of main lines; (b) purchase of line and shunting
locomotives, passenger coaches and specialized wagons;
(c) rehabilitation of wagons, purchase of spare parts for
wagons and locomotives, and modification of existing box
cars; (d) technical assistance and studies. Benefits
arise from cost reductions because of improved equipment
and facilities and from the railways carrying traffic
which otherwise would have been moved by road at a higher
cost to the economy. Unquantified benefits include the
advantages of more reliable and faster service to shippers
and passengers. The project faces no special risks. The
success of the rationalization program and the accompanying
financial improvements would depend on the Government's
support. Government actions give us confidence that such
support will continue.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Project Cost:        Investment Category               Local    Foreign    Total
------ (US$ Million) ----
Way and Works                    252.41      95.09    347.50
Signal and Telecommunications   16.63        15.61      32.24
Motive Power/Rolling Stock       103.04    113.02    216.06
Consulting Services                0.50       3.00       3.50
Physical Contingencies            13.61       9.41      23.02
Price Contingencies               78.48      48.10    126.58
Total:                      464.67    284.23    748.90
Financing Plan: l/
Government (Special
budget for suburban
railway investments)    Government        Suppliers          Bank            Total
Amount    %        Amount      %   Amount   %       Amount    %    Amount         %
(US$ M)         (US$ M)          (Us$ M)            (US$ M)
506.0   42.1       252.0    21.0  348.0   28.9    96.0  8.0         1,202.0    100.0
Estimated
Disbursement:           Bank FY             1980       1981      1982
----- (US$ Million) ----
Annual             26.0       49.0       21.0
Cumulative         26.0       75.0       96.0
Economic
Rate of Return:         Weighted average is 22Z.
Appraisal Report:          Report No. 2155 -AR, dated March 14,1979.
1/    The financial plan includes US$748.9 million of project costs (1979-1982)
as well as $453.1 of other investments started prior to the project and to
be carried out in 1979 through 1982.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE ARGENTINE RAILWAYS
FOR A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I subm±t the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Argentine Railways with the Guarantee of the Argentine Republic for the
equivalent of US$96.0 million to help finance a Second Railway Project. The
loan would have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, with
interest at 7% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Argentina" (No. 2208-AR)
dated November 26, 1978 was distributed to the Executive Directors. Country
data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Argentina is best characterized as a "semi-industrialized" country
with a per capita income of US$1,730 (1977). It has a strong middle class and
a fairly even distribution of income. Since 1950, real gross domestic product
has grown at an average annual rate of close to 4% which, combined with a low
rate of population growth, meant a GDP per capita growth of 2.4%. Because of
disincentives in the form of price controls and export taxes, Argentina's
agricultural sector has grown at an annual rate of only 1.5%, while the
industrial sector expanded by over 5.5%. But industry's growth depended
heavily on a strategy of import substitution that has led to an overly divers-
ified and inefficient industrial structure, which is impeding future growth
of the Argentine economy.
4.        Aside from the modest average growth, Argentina's development has
been hampered by strong cyclical fluctuations. Sharp swings from expansionary
fiscal, monetary, and wage policies to restrictive stabilization programs
occurred five times since 1950. During the early 1970s when Argentina's
external situation was favorable, the Government was able to pursue an ambi-
tious public investment program. Following strong increases in public
expenditures, nominal wages and credit, domestic output boomed. Maintenance
of fixed exchange rates led to rapidly increasing imports. In mid-1974, poor
weather, falling world grain prices, and an EEC ban on beef imports halted
export growth. Deterioration of the foreign sector coincided with an
intensification of domestic social and political strains following the
death of President Peron. Various stabilization efforts to stop the
evolving wage-price spiral in mid- and late 1975 failed because they
attempted to combine incompatible goals. With the relaxing of price
controls and rapid devaluations, inflationary pressures rose to over 300%
in 1975 and accelerated to an annual rate of almost 1,000% in early 1976.



-2-
Recent Performance
5.        In March 1976 a new Government took office.  Faced with hyperinfla-
tion, near depletion of foreign exchange reserves and serious distortions in
the country's economic structure, the new Government adopted far-reaching
changes in external and internal stabilization policies.  Foreign trade and
capital restrictions were removed, export incentives for primary products were
re-established and the exchange rates were unified. As a consequence, exports
rose rapidly, and foreign exchange reserves were rebuilt. On the domestic
front tight budgetary and wage controls were imposed.  Despite the freeing
of product and factor markets from price controls, the rate of inflation was
cut in half within six months, while keeping unemployment at a low level.
6.        External sector policies, implemented in 1976, continued to produce
favorable results in 1977 and 1978. External debt was restructured through
increased long-term financing, which substituted for previously accumulated
short-term debt. Exports exceeded imports by over US$1.5 in 1977, and US$2.5
billion in 1978. The large surpluses in trade and the current accounts were
accompanied by substantial long-term external borrowing of the private and
public sectors, and as a consequence, the level of gross reserves rose from
almost zero in March 1976 to over US$3 billion by December 1977, and to
US$5 billion at the end of December 1978.
7.        Domestic activities have not enjoyed the continuously strong advances
realized in the external sector. In early 1976, Argentina not only suffered
from a large balance-of-payments deficit and hyperinflation, but also from
economic recession. Economic activity declined further through the middle
of 1976, but recovered when export and investment increases set the stage
for rapid improvement in 1977.  Agriculture, mining, and construction were
leading sectors in that year.  In late 1977, consumption increased for
the first time after having fallen for nine consecutive  quarters.  The
recovery in output came to an abrupt halt, however, when real interest rates
on loans, which had been negative previously, climbed to annual levels of over
50% between November 1977 and February 1978.  Industrial output fell sharply
in 1978 leading to an overall GDP decline of 3%. Since October 1978 output
has recuperated and the recovery is expected to continue in 1979.
Stabilization Program
8.        Fiscal policy has been the cornerstone of the stabilization program.
Weak public finances, which had been a source of inflation since the early
1970s, were significantly strengthened. The Treasury deficit was reduced from
13% of GDP in 1975 to 2% in 1978, by raising the real level of public revenues
and by curtailing public expenditures. Central Bank financing of the deficit,
which had contributed significantly to monetary expansion before 1977, was
reduced sharply. The public sector's overall deficit fell from over 16% of GDP
in 1975 to less than 5% in 1978, and its savings on current account recovered
from -7% in 1975 to +7% of GDP in 1977 and 1978.



9.        Restrictive wage policies were designed to lower aggregate demand and
to maintain high employment even if this meant a decline in real wages per
worker, so that the hardships generally associated with stabilization programs
could be distributed as evenly as possible. Unemployment declined from 5.1%
to 4.3% despite economic recession during 1976. With output recovering
strongly in 1977, the unemployment rate fell further to 2.5% and averaged 3%
during the renewed recession of 1978. The Government has modified its tight
wage policy since 1977, permitting firms in the private sector to increase
wages up to a fixed margin above the official rate "basic wage" for unskilled
non-agricultural labor. This margin has been increased periodically and is
now 75%. As a consequence, wages increased slightly more than prices in 1977
and kept up with inflation in 1978. Although there is dissatisfaction over the
insufficient level of purchasing power, the Government continues to pursue a
cautious wage and labor policy to prevent a recurrence of the wage-price spiral.
The authorities believe that increasing labor productivity is the only way to
permit substantial increases in real wages over the longer term. The Government
expects to achieve this objective through modernization of the country's
capital stock in infrastructure and industry and through expansion of exports
of goods that use relatively advanced technological inputs.
10.       While decelerating from its rapid increases in 1975/76, monetary
expansion proceeded at a faster rate than inflation in 1977 and 1978. The
major causes of the unforeseen expansion were the large balance-of-payments
surpluses and the strong private sector demand for credit, which had been
stimulated by inventory build-up and by the need to finance the increased
cost of credit, especially in 1977. Despite substantial real increases in
private domestic credit, interest rates rose to high levels in the second
semester of 1977, reaching positive real rates of over 3% per month. In
response to the high credit cost in domestic markets, firms increased their
borrowing abroad. The increased inflow of external capital which followed
contributed to continued rapid growth of the monetary base in 1978, and
eventually brought local interest rates down to more tolerable levels,
averaging slightly under 1% in real terms. Monthly fluctuations of real
interest rates on the order of 1 to 2%, however, still make effective monetary
management difficult.
11.       In view of continued strong export expansion, the Government has
attempted to discourage short-term private capital inflows. In 1978,
it prohibited foreign borrowing of less than two years maturity and required
that the equivalent of 20% of medium- and long-term borrowings be deposited
in the Central Bank. External borrowing by public sector entities must be
approved by the Ministry of Economy and the Central Bank. In addition, a
substantial portion of public debt, contracted for balance-of-payments support
during the 1976 crisis, was repaid before falling due. As agreed with the
International Monetary Fund, outstanding financial swaps were eliminated, and
the remaining restrictions in the exchange field were removed. Finally,
devaluations of the peso exchange rate were slowed down, leading to an appre-
ciation of the peso in real terms.



- 4 -
12.       After bringing down the rate of inflation from nearly 1,000% to
less than 150% within one year, no further progress could be made in spite
of restrictive wage and fiscal policies. The annual rate of inflation has
stayed at over 150% in the second half of 1977 and 1978. Strong fluctuations
of monthly rates have complicated economic management and financial planning.
The continued strong inflationary pressure was caused by a combination of
factors. For one, the government linked its stabilization program with
policies to reduce distortions in relative prices which resulted in additional
corrective price increases. Furthermore, fairly rapid monetary expansion, the
revival of inflationary expectations, which emerged after a brief period of
renewed price controls, and cost-push factors stemming from the increase in
internal rates and adjustments of public sector prices have contributed to
maintaining a high rate of price increases. Other cost factors, such as wages
and imported inputs, followed the rate of inflation closely.
13.       Cost-push and corrective inflation should have ceased to be impor-
tant, since the Government has restrained public sector price adjustments and
the rate of devaluation of the peso since mid-1978. Similarly, demand-pull
factors are being limited by continued restraint on public sector spending and
by increasingly successful policies to control monetary expansion. With
output growth expected to be modest in 1979, it is unlikely that either real
interest rates or real wages will rise significantly. Inflationary expecta-
tions, however, still seem to dominate price decisions of business firms.
The authorities have therefore announced a comprehensive stabilization package
containing pre-determined public tariff, wage, and exchange rate schedules
for the first eight months of 1979. Exchange rates and utility rates will
be raised by 4.5% to 5% monthly, and basic wages will be adjusted by 4%,
with larger increases limited to productivity changes. Besides establishing
exchange rates on a sliding scale, deposit requirements for foreign loans were
lifted and the minimum term was reduced from two years to one. With cheaper
external credit acting as a check on interest rates, it is expected that lower
financial costs will promote increased investment activity and lead to a
continued recovery. More rapid import growth is expected to use larger
amounts of foreign exchange than in previous years so that the risk of
undesirable monetary expansion through the external sector would be mitigated.
The Strategy for Reconstruction and Growth
14.       The Government's stabilization program has been accompanied by
a broad range of measures aimed at restructuring the economy. These measures
seek to: (a) increase investment, output, and efficiency in the directly
productive sectors, and (b) improve public sector efficiency and modernize the
country's infrastructure, especially in the strategically important energy
sector. Agricultural policy has improved the agricultural sector's position
in international markets by reducing or eliminating internal distortions in
factor and product markets and by allowing international prices and internal
competition to stimulate production and investment. In order to increase
industrial efficiency, the Government has started to increase gradually the
industrial sector's exposure to international competition. The first step
consisted of eliminating most of the import prohibitions and correcting and
unifying exchange rates. As a second step, a new industrial promotion law was



- 5 -
introduced, rationalizing and increasing the effectiveness of the incentives
for decentralization of industrial activity. Third, a tariff reform was
initiated in 1976: import duties were cut from an average of 90% to 50% for
nominal and 130% to 60% for effective rates of protection. A narrowing of the
wide dispersion of effective protection is one of the major features of a
recently published five-year program which will lower further the average
nominal external tariff to 25%.
15.       The authorities have been particularly active in reshaping the
structure of energy supply in Argentina. In the petroleum industry, national
companies, both private and public, are concentrating their efforts on areas
near existing fields or on new areas with good prospects, leaving the more
difficult and costly offshore exploration to foreign companies. Increased
substitution of natural gas for oil is underway so as to utilize more fully the
large gas reserves in the south of the country. The Government's medium- to
long-term energy policy aims at meeting domestic requirements to the extent
possible through local sources. To that end, several new hydroelectric
projects are either under construction or planned; the most important one of
is the Yacyreta project. In addition, crude oil output during 1978-85 is to
be increased by nearly 5% per annum, and similar increases are envisaged
for natural gas, coal and nuclear power. These targets have been incorporated
into a National Energy Plan for the period 1977-85. The power investment
program through 1985 is currently being extended to the year 2000 in order
to define the least cost solutions for long term investments.
16.       In order to strengthen domestic resource mobilization and to
rationalize public sector finances, a reform of the financial and fiscal
systems has been undertaken. Special emphasis has been placed on restoring
the financial viability of provincial governments and state enterprises which
accounted for much of the public deficit in recent years. Twenty-six private
enterprises acquired by previous administrations are being returned to private
ownership or to be liquidated. Stringent cost cutting measures have reduced
significantly the large deficit of the Argentine Railways. Additional taxes
were introduced at the national level and important improvements in tax
administration were carried out. A new program was created in the Ministry of
Economy to rationalize public sector investment planning and to develop a
medium-term public investment program. Taken in their entirety, the measures
adopted by the new Government represent a major shift in the Argentine develop-
ment strategy which, when fully implemented, should lay the foundation for
strong self-sustained growth in the future.
Growth and Balance-of-Payments Projections
17.       Although growth rates in the immediate future are likely to be
moderate due to the high priority which the Government has placed on the
reduction of inflation, the prospects for strong growth of the Argentine
economy are favorable over the longer term. Price and trade policies aimed
at opening up the economy are expected to bring about a reorganization of
the productive sector, to increase economic efficiency and stimulate growth.
The participation of international trade in GDP, which grew significantly
in the last three years, is expected to expand further. It will, however,



- 6 -
take a number of years to carry out these tasks, partly because of their
inherent complexity and partly because public support can be sustained only
if social costs of the adjustment process are held within tolerable limits.
18.       ExporLs have grown over the past three years, at a rate (30%) which
is unlikely to be sustained for long. Expansion in the immediate future,
therefore, is expected to be more gradual. Over the longer term, however,
export prospects appear to be excellent; total export earnings are projected to
increase by an average of 5-6% annually in real terms through 1985. Roughly
two-thirds of that increase would be generated by agriculture and about
one-third by industry. Projections of world prices for Argentina's export
products are favorable and imply that their current value should grow at 12%
annually between 1978 and 1985. Modernization of infrastructure and industry,
and with it growth of GDP through the early eighties, will require the volume
of imports to increase rapidly, estimated at 9% annually. The current dollar
value of imports is projected to increase by over 16% per annum over the next
decade, if import prices are to rise with world inflation. This pattern of
growth of imports and exports would permit the country to maintain a trade
surplus adequate to cover the net cost of services, and still yield a modest
but declining current account surplus through 1980. The current account
balance is projected to turn negative between 1981 and 1985. Given Argentina's
heavy debt service payments, and the need to continue to improve the structure
of its external debt, considerable gross inflows of medium- and long-term
capital will be required, increasing from US$2.0 billion in 1977 to US$4.7
billion in 1985. The bulk of these capital requirements are expected to be
available from bilateral arrangements, export credits, world capital markets
and direct private investments. Official multilateral sources, however,
should play an important role, not only by providing capital combined with
technical assistance, but also by stimulating capital flows from other sources.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
19.       Argentina's external public or publicly guaranteed debt at the end
of 1978 was estimated to be US$5.4 billion (disbursed only), an increase of
about US$500 million from 1977. That debt has been substantially restructured
during the three years of the current Government. Short-term debt including
"swaps" has been replaced by longer term obligations. During 1978 Argentina
terminated its standby agreement with the IMF, and the Central Bank repaid the
total external indebtedness, which it had contracted in 1976 for balance-of-
payments support.
20.       In mid-1978, Argentina's total outstanding debt was estimated to be
US$7.5 billion; the US$300 million increase over the 1977 level was due to
expansion of private sector credit. External public and total debt service
ratios, which had been 21% and 37%, respectively, during 1975 have declined to an
average of 17% and 26%, respectively, in 1977 and 1978. Despite large borrow-
ings envisaged over the next several years, these ratios are projected to stay
relatively constant until 1985. Under these circumstances, Argentina should
have no difficulty servicing the substantial external borrowing required
during the reconstruction period and beyond.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
21.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of periodic
macroeconomic difficulties and unsatisfactory sector policies, along with
delays and problems in complying with specific project conditions. After a
hiatus of five years, lending was resumed in September 1976. Since that date,
the Bank has made loans for five projects amounting to US$485.0 million.
Projects financed by the Bank before 1971 are practically completed. During
the past two years, Bank assistance directed to major infrastructure projects
and to the provision of credit for productive sectors has helped Argentina
through the initial stabilization effort. The agricultural credit project
provides credit and technical assistance for on-farm investments, weed control
and land clearing to bring about an increase in agricultural output. The
grain storage project will enable Argentina to obtain better prices for
agricultural products and to export them in a more orderly manner throughout
the year. The industrial credit project supports the modernization and
expansion of efficient industry in general and export oriented industry in
particular. The electric transmission and distribution project and the fourth
highway project provide part of the infrastructure necessary to facilitate
agricultural and industrial expansion. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans as of January 31, 1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
22.       The Bank's approach to assist Argentina in the recent years was
to participate in a limited number of relatively large loans. Now that the
Government has broadened its policies beyond stabilization to address
vigorously structural and institutional constraints in the productive and
social sectors, its task has become more complex. A somewhat more diversified
Bank lending program will be required to respond to the Government's request
for assistance in areas critical for Argentina's future economic and social
development.
23.       Such a program will follow a three-pronged strategy of assistance.
The Bank would finance projects to help, first, reform Argentina's economic
structure and make it more competitive; second, strengthen key public institu-
tions and implement rational sector policies; and, third, address some social
problems. Projects in industry would aim predominantly at restructuring
the sector by concentrating development of industrial capacity in areas where
Argentina has a comparative advantage or the ability to compete at world
market prices. Bank involvement in the agricultural sector would aim at
helping consolidate recent policies and supporting the Government's infrastruc-
ture investment program in areas where Argentina possesses a clear comparative
advantage which has not yet been fully utilized. There is still considerable
scope for changes in production technology and for extending the agricultural
frontier outside of the Pampas.



- 8 -
24.       With the decline in effective protection, input costs have become
critical factors in determining the competitiveness of Argentina's productive
sector in international markets. Energy and transport are particularly
important cost components. Further projects are proposed in the energy sector
to help develop the potential of the water resources shared by Argentina and
its neighbors and to expand the national transmission grid commensurate with
the needs of an expanding economy, as well as for the railways and the ports
sectors to improve the handling capacity and efficiency of the respective
modes, thus mitigating the adverse effect of Argentina's geographical location
on international trade.
25.       Virtually all projects under consideration would have important
institution building objectives. Because of managerial weaknesses and political
constraints, most of Argentina's key public enterprises and agencies have been
unable to implement sound investment and operating policies. Projects in
support of Government efforts to redress this situation would be mainly
in the transport, energy and social sectors. In close consultation with the
Bank, the Government has initiated a comprehensive program of redimensioning
the railway system that has already resulted in impressive improvements. The
port authorities also suffer from institutional and organizational weaknesses
which need to be redressed to handle efficiently the expected rapid growth of
Argentina's foreign trade. In the electric energy sector, the Government has
prepared, in close cooperation with the Bank, a least cost investment program,
made several important tariff decisions, and initiated a process to streamline
the organization of the sector. Continued Bank association with the sector
would aim at consolidating these measures and carrying them further.
26.       Bank involvement in water supply and sewerage, regional development
and technical education, would help formulate sector policies and strengthen
institutions which are not fully equipped to handle efficiently new or larger
tasks which the Government intends to entrust upon them. Bank support in the
water supply and sewerage sector would include measures to upgrade the planning
and implementing capacity of pertinent Government and provincial agencies.
The Bank would also assist the decentralization policy of the Government
through participation in the regional development sector. Bank support would
relate to formulation of investment plans, preparation of budgets, proposals
on revenue sharing and upgrading of local managerial and organizational
capacity. The Bank is planning to assist in redefining the role and policies
of the National Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training in
response to the needs resulting from the reorientation of industry.
27.       Benefits of the Government's strategy to realign the economic
structure and to make the public sector more efficient are expected to accrue
to the population at large, given Argentina's comparatively even income dis-
tribution and relative lack of economic dualism. Bank assistance includes,
however, a number of projects with a social orientation to complement the
operations geared directly to productivity increases. These projects, would,
for the first time, involve the Bank directly in Argentina's social sector.
The Bank intends to assist the Government in its plans to remedy deficiencies
in the social sector and to influence both policies and institutions while
they are still at a formative stage, towards greater emphasis on the needs
of the lower income groups.



-9-
IFC Operations
28.       As of January 31, 1979, IFC had made 13 loans to borrowers in
Argentina totalling US$94.2 million and one equity investment of US$2.0
million, of which US$42.5 million have been repaid, cancelled or sold. A
summary of IFC's investments up to January 31, 1979, is shown in Annex II.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
29.       Argentina's population and economic activity is concentrated in and
around Buenos Aires: about 18 million of the country's 26 million inhabitants
live within a 600-km radius of Buenos Aires, and this area generates almost 85%
of the country's GNP. The bulk of freight generated by the economy consists of
agricultural products and other raw materials moving from the interior to the
lower Parana River ports and Buenos Aires, and of machinery and other production
inputs, vehicles and manufactured consumer goods moving in the opposite direc-
tion. The La Plata-Buenos Aires-Rosario-Santa Fe-Cordoba industrial corridor
generates the main intercity passenger traffic. Argentina's pattern of devel-
opment requires concentration of transportation facilities around Buenos Aires
and in the industrial corridor as well as an extensive transportation network
to serve the relatively underpopulated interior of the country. Investments
in the transportation sector have accounted for about 20% of total public
investment. The modal distribution of traffic in ton-km carried in 1976 was
42% road, 35% water transport, 12% pipelines and 11% rail; in intercity
passenger-km it was 86% road, 10% rail and 4% air.
Planning and Coordination
30.       Planning and coordination in the transport sector have been weak.
The considerable degree of independence of the Government transport agencies
has made it difficult to have integrated and consistent transport plans and
policies. Several attempts were made to improve this situation, including
the creation in 1968 of a Sectoral Transport Planning Office under the
Sub-Secretariat of Transport (SST) in the Ministry of Economy.
31.       The Bank has had a long association with studies of the transport
sector in Argentina: in 1961 it was executing agency for a UNDP financed
study, and in 1968 and 1971 it carried out comprehensive reviews of the
sector. To continue to assist the Government to improve transport planning
and coordination, financing for a National Transport Plan was included under
the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1384-AR); it started in December 1978 and
will be completed by the end of 1981. The Sectoral Transport Planning Office
will be responsible for the preparation of the Plan.
Road Transport
32.       In 1976, Argentina had a system of about one million km of roads
of which about 42,000 km were paved. Except for some peripheral areas, the



- 10 -
present road system is generally adequate, although there is need for re-
habilitation and strengthening of existing roads. National trunk roads are
the responsibility of the National Highway Service; local and feeder roads
of the provincial highway agencies. The local construction industry is well
organized and efficient.
33.       The road vehicle fleet increased from 1.0 million vehicles in 1961
to 3.4 million vehicles in 1976, an average annual growth of 8%. The vehicle-
population ratio is about one vehicle per eight inhabitants. Truck transport
is used for long and short hauls and for practically all commodities. Freight
rates are low because of the generally flat terrain allowing the use of heavy
truck trailers. The average age of the trucking fleet has been estimated by
the Government at slightly over seven years. Trucking is largely unregulated.
Both urban and inter-urban road passenger services are regulated by SST. In
general, freight and passenger services are adequate.
34.       The Bank has partly financed four highway construction projects
in Argentina. Project implementation, although affected by the periodic
economic crises the country has gone through, has been generally satisfactory.
The executing agency, the National Highway Service has been strengthened and
is able to prepare and carry out projects efficiently.
Water Transport
35.       The Plata River and its tributaries form a navigable system of more
than 3,000 km. The tributaries, particularly the Parana River, constitute an
important outlet for exports and carry about 40% of Argentina's total grain
exports. The depths of the rivers limit the draft of ships entering the
system and, hence, exclude the larger bulk carriers or restrict their load-
ing capacity; necessary dredging equipment is being acquired.
36.       In the river trade, the largest Argentine carrier is a state-owned
company which provides freight and passenger services. It also owns and
operates tug boats in the main ports. The Argentine merchant marine fleet
consists of 66 state-owned vessels with a total of 479,000 DWT and an average
age of 15 years. Many of the ships are old, and the Argentine Government is
making an effort to renovate the fleet to raise its participation in Argentina's
foreign trade.
37.       Argentina's ports are located on the Atlantic coast and the Plata
and Parana rivers. The port of Buenos Aires handles about 27% of Argentina's
total port traffic. Roughly 60% of the total tonnage handled is domestic bulk
traffic--petroleum products, gravel and sand. The most serious problems facing
the ports are severe draft limitations, antiquated terminals and the cumber-
some and inefficient way in which the ports are managed, caused by the lack
of coordination among the many organizations having control over port opera-
tions. A study of operations and management as well as physical facility
requirements at the ports of Bahia Blanca, Rosario, San Nicolas, San Pedro,
Buenos Aires and La Plata is presently under way with UNDP financing with the
Bank serving as executing agency. In addition, under the grain storage project
(Loan 1521-AR), the Bank is financing a study to determine the feasibility of
deepening the access channel at Bahia Blanca; concurrently, the Government is
studying the feasibility of building a new deep water port.



- 11 -
Air Transport
38.       Argentina's large area and the considerable distances between many
of its population and commercial centers, have encouraged the growth of aviation.
Airport infrastructure is highly developed, with modern runways and terminals
in all major urban centers. There are about 1,500 airports and airstrips, of
which about 90 are served by commercial aviation. The air transport industry
has enjoyed relatively steady growth for a number of years. The Government-
owned and financially profitable Aerolineas Argentinas provides national and
international services. The privately owned Austral and Aero-Chaco provide
national and regional services respectively. LADE, owned and operated by the
Air Force, provides subsidized services to the southern part of the country.
Pipelines
39.       Pipelines account for the bulk of crude oil and almost all gas
transported in the country. There are about 6,100 km of oil and about
10,900 km of gas pipelines in the trunk system. Two Government enter-
prises, YPF and Gas del Estado, own and operate the oil and gas pipelines,
respectively. There are plans to expand the gas pipeline network to
interconnect the various systems.
Urban Transport in Buenos Aires
40.       The Buenos Aires Metropolitan Region has several corridors of
urban development that extend westward for approximately 60 km from the center
of the city, with most of the urban development contained within a 25-km
wide band. Extensive use is made of public transit services, and there is
a correspondingly lesser reliance on private automobiles than in many other
large cities in the world. Generally, Buenos Aires has a good public trans-
portation system. The bus system is privately owned and offers adequate
service. The subway is Government-owned and receives large annual operating
subsidies. The suburban railway service could be improved and more passengers
carried. The project includes a study for a master plan for the suburban
railway to be carried out by SST which would examine all aspects of the
suburban railway: organization, operations, tariffs, investments and traffic
as well as the interaction between this service and the urban economy and the
rest of the transport system in Buenos Aires.
41.       The Government and FA are committed to the electrification of
about 45 km of the Roca suburban railway, and contracts for the provision of
some equipment have already been signed. The investment contemplated in
1979/82 is of about US$290 million. Achievement of the forecast traffic
levels would be crucial for the financial viability of the project. Since
the Bank has some doubts as to whether those levels are realistic, and is
concerned about the negative financial effect that failure to meet those
levels would have for FA, it has been agreed that the Government would transfer
the capital cost of the investments for suburban railways to a special budget
in the Sub-Secretariat of Transport, and that investments on the Roca suburban
railway would not reduce the availability of resources required for FA to
carry out the Project and other economically justifiable projects commencing



- 12 -
between January 1, 1979 and December 31, 1982. In addition, the Government
indicated that it would take necessary measures to ensure that an economical
diversion of traffic to the Roca suburban railway takes place and that it
would study the possibility of participation in the financing of suburban
railway investments by the beneficiaries, such as the city and province of
Buenos Aires (draft supplemental letter).
42.       There is no agency responsible for the overall coordination of
transport planning in the metropolitan region. A 1972/73 study of transport
of the region recommended the creation of such an organization. It also
recommended the separation of the suburban railway from the railways, and the
creation of a new company which would eventually merge with the subway. The
project includes a study for a master plan for the suburban railway, to be
carried out by SST, which is expected to be completed by March 30, 1980.
Railways
43.       During the half century preceding the first World War, the railways
played a crucial role in the economic growth of the country by opening up new
areas to development and providing the only transport link between production
areas and the main ports. Thereafter, however, their relative importance
declined steadily with the growth in road, river and pipeline transport, and
their financial situation deteriorated. In 1946, the Government purchased
the 12 private railway companies and combined them with the six it already
owned and one owned by the Province of Buenos Aires, to form Ferrocarriles
Argentinos (FA). The resulting railway had 44,000 kms. of lines and was one
of the largest in the world. Unfortunately, the Government failed to merge
fully the organizations of the original railway companies, to discontinue
services which could no longer be provided economically, to insulate the
railways from political interference and to maintain adequate tariff levels.
Consequently, financial losses mounted, maintenance expenditures lagged and
service deteriorated; railway traffic declined from 16.5 billion ton-km and
32.8 million tons in 1951 to 14.2 billion ton-km and 22.1 million tons in
1970.
44.       In 1970, the Government and FA adopted a plan to redimension and
rehabilitate the railways and the Bank agreed to partly finance this plan under
Loan 733-AR. By February 1974, it was apparent that little or no improvement
had been achieved and that performance was well below the established targets.
In April 1974, the Bank offered the Government and FA the alternative of
renegotiating the loan on the basis of new targets and specific actions to be
taken by the Government and FA or cancelling the balance of the loan for items
not yet contracted. The Government and FA chose the latter alternative and
US$27.5 million of the US$84.0 million loan were cancelled. The situation
continued to worsen through early 1976. Railway tariffs declined in real
terms, over the period 1973-1976, staff increased from about 138,000 to about
157,000, traffic continued to decline, and maintenance and service to
deteriorate.
45.       Redimensioning of the railways has been considered by many Govern-
ment administrations in the past. However, only with the present Government
has any significant and concerted action been taken. Since March 1976, 5,656
km of track have been closed; 374 stations on other lines have been eliminated,



- 13 -
long distance passenger-train service have been cut by 45%, staff has been
reduced from 157,000 to 117,000 persons and tariffs have been substantially
increased in real terms. These improvements, within such a short period of
time, are impressive and reflect the determination of the present Government
to bring about fundamental changes in the railways.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       To complement the actions already taken in the redimensioning of the
railways, the Government has requested Bank technical and financial assistance
in its efforts to rehabilitate the railways. It is a major objective of the
Government to organize the railways into an efficient long haul bulk carrier.
The Government intends to increase agricultural exports, and the success of
this strategy requires, inter alia, the availability of an efficient railway
service. The rehabilitation of the railways also aims at reducing and
eventually eliminating the large Government subsidies. Failure to carry out
such rehabilitation would make the railways less and less competitive with
other modes and require larger Government subsidies.
47.       FA prepared the first draft of an investment plan (1978-1982) aimed
primarily at avoiding further deterioration of railway services and at start-
ing the rehabilitation process. Under UNDP financing, with the Bank serving
as Executing Agency, internationally recruited consultants (ITALCONSULT)
reviewed FA's plan. The plan recommended by the consultants was further
modified to take into account investment limits imposed by the Ministry of
Economy, i.e., approximately US$300 million annually in mid 1977 dollars for
1979/80/81. The Government considered that such amount would be appropriate
in view of competing demands from other sectors of the economy and the Govern-
ment's objective of reducing the fiscal deficit. The Bank recommended, and
the Government agreed, to renegotiate a number of existing contracts for the
supply of railway equipment to reduce costs and to reschedule deliveries to be
more in line with FA needs, and to make room for the inclusion of other
necessary investments. The plan, now covering the period 1979-1983, is
considered to be an adequate initial step in the necessarily long process of
rehabilitation. Investments starting in 1979 and 1980 are clearly defined.
However, studies are needed in several areas to prepare sub-projects to be
started in 1981/83. Studies to be financed with the proposed loan, to be
completed by September 30, 1980, would result in an integrated signalling and
telecommunications plan, and in the determination of motive power, rolling
stock and mechanical maintenance workshop requirements. Also to be financed
by the proposed loan are feasibility studies for track and civil works work-
shops, and for container operations. By July 1, 1980 FA will prepare and
furnish to the Bank for review and comments an investment program for 1981 and
1982 (Section 5.12 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       The purpose of the proposed project is to strengthen FA through the
rationalization of its system, the rehabilitation of its track and equipment,
and the improvement of its management. The proposed project consists of those
economically justified subprojects which are scheduled to begin in the first



- 14 -
two years of the plan period (1979 and 1980). The main items to be procured
under the proposed loan include rails and track fittings, freight car bodies,
bogies for both the above bodies and for modernizing existing freight cars,
and some track maintenance equipment.  The proposed loan would also partly
finance a track renewal contract and a technical assistance program. In
order to complement the improvements to FA facilities, operational and finan-
cial targets to be met in 1979/83 have been agreed upon (Section 3.07 of the
draft Loan Agreement). These targets would be subsequently revised to take
into account the conclusions of studies to be carried out under the project
(Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.03 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
49.       The proposed project was appraised by a Bank mission, which visited
Argentina in January-February 1978, and by follow up missions in May 1978 and
February 1979. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report Second Railway
Project - Argentina," No. 2155-AR dated March 14,1979 is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet is presented
in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington on November 16-22, 1978.
The Government and FA delegations were headed by Mr. Ezequiel Ogueta, Sub-
Secretary of Transport.
The Borrower
50.       FA would be responsible for the carrying out of the project, with
the exception of the studies for the suburban rail service, long distance
passenger services and uneconomic lines, which would be the responsibility of
SST. FA is a state enterprise under SST responsible for the operation of the
railways. It is expected to operate along commercial lines; the Government,
however, exercises a considerable degree of control. Government policy toward
FA has been a key factor in determining tariff, staff, salary and investment
levels, funds available for maintenance, and the rate at which uneconomic lines
and services have been phased out. The present Government has exercised this
responsibility with generally beneficial effects in most areas.
51.       A Board of Directors is responsible for the management of FA.  The
Board of Directors, the President and the Executive Vice President are appointed
by the Government. FA's day-to-day operations are the responsibility of the
General Managers of the six railways which constitute FA.  Overall planning,
operating norms, inter-railway coordination and policy matters are handled in
the headquarters in Buenos Aires. The management is generally competent in
technical fields, but its experience in the commercial area is limited, owing
largely to the neglect of these matters in the past; FA consequently is now
giving special attention to the marketing of railway services. FA has agreed
to prepare as needed and furnish to the Bank marketing studies for the commodi-
ties it carries (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). FA is strengthen-
ing its accounting and financial sections. The proposed project includes
technical assistance by a team of three consultants to help strengthen FA's
planning department which, although competent in engineering fields, is
weak in project evaluation and financial analysis. The proposed project also
includes training abroad for professionals to establish an office to prepare
designs and specifications and to carry out research in problems peculiar to



- 15 -
FA. FA is giving greater emphasis to maintenance; adequate maintenance targets
have been determined and FA and the Government have agreed to meet them (draft
supplemental letter).
52.       Because of low salaries in comparison to other enterprises, there is
a shortage of middle management and technical staff. FA has recently increased
salaries for management personnel by concentrating wage increases among those
in the higher positions, and it plans to continue this practice. The number
of staff has varied widely over the years--219,000 in 1956, 171,000 in 1966,
138,000 in 1973--increasing to 157,000 in 1976 and having been reduced to some
117,000 by June 1978. The target is further reductions of 2,500 a year to
achieve 105,000 by the end of 1982 through normal attrition. FA needs time to
solve the problems created by the large staff reductions of the last two years
and to define its future manpower requirements. A study to be financed by the
proposed loan, to be completed by September 30, 1980, would help define a
manpower plan and salary policies.
53.       To facilitate future redimensioning of the railways, the project
includes a study of uneconomic lines to be carried out by SST and expected
to be completed by June 30, 1980. The Government has agreed to close a
further 6,350 km of uneconomic lines by the end of 1982, subject to the
recommendations of the above study and after agreement with the Bank. The
project also includes a study of intercity passenger services to be carried
out by SST and expected to be completed by June 30, 1980. The Government has
agreed to reduce intercity passenger train-km from 18 million to 16 million in
1980 and hold this level constant until December 31, 1982, subject to the
recommendations of the above study, and after agreement with the Bank. These
studies, as well as those referred to in paragraphs 38, 43 and 48 will be
furnished to the Bank for comments and their recommendations would be carried
out as agreed with the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement and
Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Terms of reference for the
studies were discussed and agreed during negotiations. FA also agreed
to prepare and furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1979 a program for the
improvement of grain transport operations, and to carry out such program as
agreed with the Bank (Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Proiect Costs and Financing
54.       The cost estimates for FA's investment plan including the project
are expressed in US dollars and are based on mid-1977 prices. A more recent
base year was not used in order to facilitate comparison with government
planning figures which use that year. Physical contingencies of 5% have been
included on all items except those covered by ongoing contracts where amounts
are clearly known. Also included are price contingencies between mid-1977
and the end of the implementation period applied to both local and foreign
costs at the following annual rates: civil works 8% in 1978, 7.5% in 1979,
and 7% from 1980 onwards, and equipment: 7% in 1978, 6.5% in 1979 and 6% from
1980 onwards.
55.       Some existing contracts with the local industry covering items
included in the project had to be renegotiated either because the prices were
considered excessive, or the quantities on order and the delivery schedules
were considered inappropriate in the light of present requirements.



- 16 -
56.       Total project cost is US$748.9 million.  In addition, the cost
of ongoing investments not included in the project is US$453.1 million. The
proposed Bank loan of US$96.0 million would finance part of the foreign
exchange cost of the project. Loans from suppliers and foreign banks would
finance US$348.0 million. US$252.0 million would be financed by the Government.
The remaining US$506.0 million would also be financed by the Government through
the special budget for suburban railways (para. 41). FA has agreed not to
borrow to finance operating expenses and to limit borrowing so that principal
repayments in any future year do not exceed FA's annual depreciation provision
(Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Tariffs and Subsidy Policy
57.       FA has sustained large operating losses for many years, particularly
on the standard and narrow gauge subsystems. Cash operating deficits financed
by Government subsidies averaged some US$360 million a year between 1974 and
1977. Although total traffic varied by only a few percentage points during
the period 1974 to 1977, operating revenues and expenses varied widely. Freight
and passenger tariffs were adjusted, but not fast enough to compensate for the
large increases in FA's operating costs. Costs were influenced principally by
changes in the number of staff and levels of salaries. On the basis of the
traffic forecasts, expected increases in freight and passenger tariffs in real
terms and further reductions in staff and uneconomic services, FA's working
ratio is expected to improve from 192 in 1977 to 141 in 1980 and 121 in 1982.
FA has agreed to take the necessary measures to meet these targets (Section
3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). FA's financial accounting system is
unsatisfactory and in 1977 consultants were engaged to restructure it. FA
recently engaged external auditors to carry out its 1977 audit. FA has agreed
to revalue annually its fixed assets in operation and to improve the methods
for materials inventory accounting (Section 5.06 and 5.07 of draft Loan
Agreement).
58.       At present, freight rates on the broad gauge subsystem cover long-run
marginal costs, but not on the standard and narrow gauge subsystems. FA does
not recover the long-run marginal costs of the Buenos Aires suburban passenger
services. With the expected rate increases, losses in Buenos Aires suburban
service should be eliminated by 1980. Suburban services in other cities,
which also contribute to the losses, would be phased out by December 31, 1979
(Section 4.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Intercity passenger services
have been considerably reduced since 1976 by eliminating the less profitable
services. With these and further reductions planned, together with increases
in fares, FA should be able to cover the long-run marginal costs of these
services by the end of the plan period. Parcel traffic is not remunerative.
FA has agreed to prepare and furnish to the Bank by June 30, 1980 a program
for the elimination of uneconomic parcel, baggage and postal services, and to
carry out such program as agreed with the Bank (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement). FA has agreed to set tariffs to cover at least the relevant
variable costs and, when competition permits, to recover a share of fixed costs.
It also agreed to adjust tariffs whenever the wholesale price index increases
over 10% since the latest adjustment (Section 5.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Government has agreed not to object, from June 30, 1979, to FA modifying



- 17 -
its freight tariffs unless such modification results in a monopolistic benefit
to FA (Section 4.06 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The Government and FA
have agreed to take the necessary measures to expedite payments for services
rendered (Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement and 4.07 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement).
59.       The Government has agreed to adopt by December 31, 1979 a system of
specific subsidies for uneconomic lines and services or for tariffs which were
held below the relevant variable cost at the request of the Government. In
addition, the Government agreed to provide a general subsidy to cover other
losses (Section 4.05 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       All materials and equipment to be procured with the proceeds of the
proposed loan would be subject to international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines. In bid evaluation, Argentine manufacturers of
equipment would be allowed a margin of preference of 15%, or the relevant
customs duties, whichever is lower. Disbursements would be made for 100%
of the foreign expenditures for imported equipment and materials, or of the
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment and materials if local
bidders are successful; for 86% of the total cost of technical assistance and
studies and for 40% of the total cost of the track renewal contract for the
Temperley-Bahia Blanca Section (in both cases, the percentage is the estimated
foreign exchange cost). It is expected that local bidders would win 30-50% of
the contracts for equipment. The loan is expected to be disbursed in FY80/82.
Project Benefits and Risks
61.       FA's Investment Plan is a coordinated program of rehabilitation and
modernization designed to enable the railways to avoid further deterioration
and to carry the traffic which has been forecast for the period. Benefits
would accrue to the users in the form of lower transport costs and improved
service. For the subprojects involving permanent way rehabilitation outside
the suburban system, the benefits taken into account in the evaluation include:
(a) savings in accident costs; (b) savings in emergency track maintenance
costs required to accommodate the forecast traffic ac a minimum standard of
safety; and (c) reductions in crew and train capital costs resulting from
faster train speeds; benefits not quantified are the savings to shippers and
passengers from faster and more reliable service. The benefits taken into
account for the permanent way rehabilitation subprojects within the suburban
system include: (a) reductions in locomotive and coach maintenance costs; and
(b) the provision of additional capacity for traffic that would otherwise
travel by road at higher costs. For the subproject involving track maintenance
equipment, the benefits taken into account include the savings in costs derived
from a comparison between the cost of carrying out the planned track maintenance
program with and without the proposed equipment. For the rolling stock and
locomotive subprojects, the benefits taken into account include the savings
in operating costs, in the case of replacement, and of costs associated with
carrying the related traffic by rail instead of road transport in the case of
additional equipment. In the case of those subprojects which provide rail



- 18 -
access, with the exception of the accesses to the silos which have already
been evaluated as part of the Bank's grain storage project, the benefits taken
into account are savings in road transport costs. The weighted average of
economic rates of return for sub-projects included in the project is 22%.
62.       The following sensitivity tests were carried out:
(a) a 30% reduction in the rate of growth of freight traffic;
(b) a 10% shortfall in the attainment of the locomotive avail-
ability and wagon turnaround targets; and
(c) a 10% increase in all costs.
63.       These changes tend to cover the most likely types of risks asso-
ciated with the project. The weighted average of economic rates of return
under sensitivity tests (a), (b) and (c) are 20%, 20% and 18%, respectively.
If all these adverse factors are taken together, the overall rate of return
would be 16%. Thus, it appears that the economic viability of the investment
program is not very sensitive to the types and magnitudes of changes most
likely to occur. This reflects, of course, the fact that a relatively small
investment would permit preservation of the productive capacity of the large
investment made on railway facilities.
64.       Full redimensioning and rehabilitation of FA, as well as FA develop-
ing into a financially viable enterprise, depend on actions to be taken both
by the Government and FA. The Government will have to continue to take timely
and often politically difficult actions, such as the closure of uneconomic
lines and the adjustments of tariffs. The far-reaching actions carried out by
the Government for the improvement of the railways during the last two years
as well as the Government's steadfastness in maintaining economically sound
policies in general, give confidence that adequate Government support to FA
will continue. Concurrently FA will have to carry out the proposed investments
and progressively improve the management of its operations. FA's management
has shown professionalism and dedication in the preparation of the current
investment plan and in the carrying out of a number of difficult measures,
such as the reduction of staff. Furthermore, FA's management is aware that
this is a crucial time for FA in that failure to improve its services may
permanently impair FA's role in the sector.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Argentine Railways and the Bank,
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Argentine Republic and the Bank, the
supplemental letters relating to suburban railways and maintenance targets,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 19 -
66.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
67.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 15, 1979



- 20 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
ARGENTINA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ARGENSINA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           2776.9                                                    SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    1814.5                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION Le   GROUP Ld    GROUP  e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  570.0      1010.0    1730.0           1066.7     1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1129.0       1703.0    1754.0           911.1      1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        20.6         23.7      26.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 71.2         77.4      80.0             57.9       52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         7.0         8.0       9.4             25.6       27.6         55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     12.0         13.0      14.4             77.6      116.4        83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         30.7         29.3      29.0             42.0       34.8        40.0
15-64 YRS.                         63.7         63.7      63.0            52.2        56.0        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   5.6          7.0       8.0              3.7        5.7         3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.5          1.4       1.3              2.7        1.6         2.9
URBAN                              2.6          2.4       2.3              4.3        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      24.9        22.5      21.8             35.8       27.0        31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       9.0         8.6       8.8              9.1        9.9          7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.5         1.5       1.5              2.6        1.9          1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..        ..             15.1       19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              85.3       100.0     107.7            102.1      103.8       114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREKENTS)                   115.0       129.0     129.0            103.9      110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           98.0        99.0     107.1            60.3        77.7        89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       54.0         64.0      68.5             26.7       22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       4.4         3.2        ..              8.7        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    66.0         67.4      68.3             62.6       63.0        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            59.4        59.0      51.0            56.9        38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        56.0      66.0            60.7        67.7        83.0
URBAN                               ..         69.0      76.0            78.0        83.5       100.0
RURAL                               ..         12.0      26.0            34.9        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         85.0      97.0            61.1        70.3        57.8
URBAN                               ..         87.0     100.0            80.3        90.7        99.3
RURAL                               ..         79.0      83.0            25.4        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           650.0        500.0     460.0          1899.3      1310.8       976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       980.0     610.0          1220.1      849.2        676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            160.0        170.0        ..           422.3      275.4        325.8
URBAN                               ..        140.0        ..           258.2       129.9       250.0
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..          2281.6      965.9        770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..            25.6        18.9        18.7
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.7          3.8        ..             5.2        3.9
URBAN                              3.5          ..         ..
RURAL                              4.3          ..         ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.4          1.4        ..             2.0        0.9
URBAN                               1.3         1.4        *-             2.1        0.8
RURAL                               1.7          ..        ..             2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             69.0         76.0      79.0 /f         51.2       59.2
URBAN                             84.7          ..         ..            77.3       78.0
RURAL                             19.0          ..         ..            12.8       12.5



ANNEX I
- 21- -
Page 2 of 5
AIRGXTINA - SOC1AL INDICATO_S DATA SHEIET
ARGENTINA                 REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTDIATE)
SAME        SAHE    NEXT HIGHER
lDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLHENT aTIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 98.0       106.0     108.0            103.5       97.6       104.1
FEMALE               99.0       107.0     109.0           102.9       87.4        120.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 31.0        37.0      55.0            37.2       47.8         44.7
FEMALE               32.0        40.0      59.0            37.9       42.6         46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 50.0        59.0      63.0             14.7       22.7        18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           22.0        19.0      18.0            32.8        25.4        30.6
SECONDARY                          7.0         7.0       8.0            17.8       24.9         16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       91.0        93.0        ..             74.9       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        24.0        61.0      81.0            26.9        32.3        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       176.0       370.0     838.0           173.5       201.9       195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        21.0       144.0     180.0            69.4        97.7       108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                155.0       179.0     147.0             72.8       70.9       108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0         2.0       3.3             4.3         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     7500.0      9000.0        .
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  21.4        24.7      25.6            21.4        17.4        26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             18.0        15.0        ..            37.8       38.4         25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                35.9        32.1
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               39.5        38.8      38.6            30.8       33.7        40.1
MALE                                61.0        58.1      57.3            47.2        50.8        55.8
FEMALE                              17.2        19.3      19.8             13.2      12.6         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.0        ..             1.7         1.4         1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   27.5        21.4  h     ..            28.9       20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9        47.0 /h    ..             57.7       47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9         5.6 /h    ..              3.2        3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.6        16.2 /h     ..            10.7       13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           251.9
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..           200.6      157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    653.0            403.1      448.8
RURAL                               *-           '     506.0           258.0      313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      21.0            24.8       23.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      60.0            65.2       54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c   Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /e High Income
(over $2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  percent of population;  /L  Aged 14 and over;  /h  Income recipients,
Buenos Aires (urban).
September, 1978



- 22-                                                                ANSEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                 Page   3   of   5
,ILo:  The Adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
-l--A  copulation-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
(Ai .-'IA (thousand sq. km)                                                              Population per hospital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                        urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agrf cultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
-. r-anently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
to  fallow.                                                                             at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (LUS) - ONP per capita estimates at current market prices,                  cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculoted by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);               sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomcodotion and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUITIITEIN PER CAPtTA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                  from hospital. divided by the nurber of beds.
(coal an-d gnite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal       etricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                HOUSING
Average sine of household (persons per household) - coral, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AJ,7) VITAL STATISTICS                                                          A household consists of a group of individuals who  hore living q-anrure
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                   and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or nay not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                           the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                     hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                  Average number of persona per room - total, orban, and rural - Average nuc-
of data among countries.                                                                ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                        dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  so. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                       Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 yesrs), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-              EDUCATION
year population.                                                                    Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                   Primary schdol - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.               .                                                   populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                      different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal eds-
.mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                   cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                    Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                   tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                          vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Grosa  reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                 Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                        or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                       primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachera in the corre-
Pamily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                        sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control              Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read ard write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                         a percentage of total adult yopulation aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION   ,                                                                CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                  Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise cotor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                    seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed fron                 vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita              Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less              broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,             receivers in countries and in years when registratior of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                 effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quiraments were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                 TV receivers (per thousand pooplation) - TV receivers for broadcast to generd.
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                  public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coos-
cent for waste at household level.                                                      tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                 Newspaper circulation (per chousand population) - Shows the average ciroula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                    tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four times a weeb.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grama should be animal protein.            Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These scandards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                   sold during the year, includiog adoissions  tO drive-in clnecas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                     units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply fron animal and pulse - Protein supply of fond             EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grama per day.                                   Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                 forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                              tions in various countries are not comparable.            s
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                  Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                        as percentage of total labor force.
renaising at birth; usually fivs-yesr averages ending in 1960, 1970,                Industry (percent) - Labor force in oining, onstructios, manufacturing etd
a-d 1975.                                                                               electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                  Participation rate (percent) - total, male, sod female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhtes.                                               ema'e labor force as percentajos of their respective poyulations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                  These are ILO's adjasted pyrticipatior rates reflectisg ace-soc
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                    str-ctore of the populotics. -d loeg time treed.
safe soter s-pply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 cr1 St and over to
unconta=inated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                    the labor force in age group c  15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populstions.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 motors from a house may bh  considrerd as being within ree-                Percentage of private i...00 (both it  cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                   percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or nembers of the household do not have to                     of households.
spend a dispyrportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water -neds.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROiPS
Access to eucreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                 Estimated absolute poverty income level (105$ per capito)   urhoc an  rcrai -
rural - Nusber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excrets                      Absolute poverty incom. e leve  is that in,come lvel  beow visI   a ,ini- -
disposal as percentages of theie  respective populations.  E-creta                      nutritionally adequate diet plus tssential soc-food requiremett  is no:
dicpysal r,ay include the collection and disposal, with or without                      affordable
treatc.et, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                   Estimated relative poverty income level (USS per cayita) - urban and rural -
or the ase of pit privies and similar installations.                                    Relativs poverty inc.e level is that incoe level less than one-third
Populatio  per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                      per capita persocal income of the country.
physiolars qualified from a medical school at university level.                      Estimated population below puvertv income level (percent) - urba  an,d r-al -
fopulsrioc pcr sursing person - Population divided by number of                            Percent of poyplation (urban and rural) whc ore eijher "absolte pcor" cr
practicing vole and female graduate tarsus, practical nurses, and                       "relation poor" whichever is greator.
assistant curses.
Eo-momic and Social  a   Iivision
ioonontc A-1-aurs ond Pr-       - -  icyarorr



ANNEX I
-23 -
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Actual                       Projected
1970-        1978-
1970      1977       1978e     1979       1982       1985          1978         1985          1970       1977      1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Millions of US$ at 1967-69 prices and exchange rates               Annual growth rates            As percent of GDY
Gross domestic product            22,608    27,567    26,600    28,131    32,210    38,153             2.1           5.3           100.3      101.6     100.6
Gains from terms of trade (+)         -72      -424      -530       -539       -497       -226          --16                                              0.6
Gross domestic income             22,536    27,143    26,070    27,592    31,713    37,927             1.8           5.5           100.0      100.0     100.0
Import (incl. NFS)                 1,861      1,815     1,679      2,250      2,950     3,862         -1.3          12.6             8.3        6.7      10.2
Exports   " (import capacity)      -1187   -2.613    -27958    -2760    -3.221    -45107               5.2           4.8            -8.8       -9.6     -10.8
Resource gap                         .118    .-718    -1,279        -510       -271      -245           -             -              0..5      42.6      -0.6
Consumption expenditures          17.644    20,528    19,900    20,346    23,043    27,641             1.5           4.8            78.3       75.6      72.9
Investment  " (incl. stocks)       4,774      5,897     4,891      6,737      8,399    10,041          0.3          10.8            21.2      21.7       26.5
Domestic savings                   4,892      6,615     6,170      7,247      8,669    10,288          2.9           7.6            21.7       24.4      27.1
National savings                   4,649      6,420     5,920      6,981      8,233     9,758          3.1           7.4            20.6       23.7      25.7
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                     Annual data at current prices                                                As percent of total imports
Imports
Capital goods                      365      1,060     1,020      1,800      3,123     5,292           --            --             22         26         38
Intermediate goods               1,168      2,263     2,100      2,783     4,314      7,032           --            __             69         55         50
Fuels and related materials         79        597       580        766        840       975            -            --5                       15          7
Consumption goods                   82        180       250        185        433       748           --            --               5         4          5
Total merch. imports (cif)       1,694      4,100     3,950      5,534     8,710    14,047                                        iJo        Toh?      Toif
Exports                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As percent of total exports
exports                                                                                                               6-              4         82         80
Primary products                 1,484      4,599    4,760       5,466      7,821    11,807           8- 4- 16                                18         20
Manufactured goods                 289      1,011     1,590     1L136       1.443     2.914                                        16         10        20
Total merch. exports (fob)       1,773      5,610    6,350       6,602      9,264    14,721                                       Too0       100        100
Merchandise trade indices
Export price index                 107        217       217        235        2N9       388
Import price index                 110        252       262        281       334        409
Terms of trade index                96         86        83         84         86        95
Export volume index                113        179       179        185        209       244
VALVE ADDED BY SECTOR
Millions of US$ at 1967-69 prices and exchange rates                                               As percent of GDY
Agriculture                      2,414      2,923     2,800      2,980      3,434     4,50          1.9           5.4             10.7      10.8       10.7
Industry and mining              8,419    10,456      9,900    10,610    12,165    14,352           2.0           5 4            37.4       38.5       37.8
Services                         9.075    11,048    10,800    11.211    12.793    15,237            2.2           5.0            40.3       40.7       40.2
Total                           19,908    24,427    23,500    24,801    28,392    33,639            2.1          5.3             88.4       90.0       88.7
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                         As percent of GDP
(Central Government-provinces)          Annual Data in Billions of Current Pesos                                                   1970       1977      1978
Current receipts                    20      4,414    11,528                                                                       1.        2L        ITT
Current expenditures                16      3.192     8.029                                           --                         16.5       15.2       18.1
Budgetary savings                    4      1,222     3,319                                           --            --            4.7        5.8        7.3
Other public sector transfers       -1       -420       443                                                                      -1.3       -2.0       -1.0
Total Public Sector Investment       7      2,760     6,149                                           --            --            8.0       13.2       13.6
SELECTED INDICATORS                               1965-    197/-    1979-
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)            1977     1979      1985
Average ICOR                                       5.9     21.5       4.8
Import elasticity                                  0.7      8.5       1.7
Marginal domestic savings rate                      .2        .2       *3
Marginal national savings rate                      .3        ,94      .3
LABOR FORCE AND                                 Total remunerated labor force                          Value added per worker (1970 prices & exc. rates)
OUTPUT PER WOREER                In Millions                  7. of Total     Annual growth rate   In U.S.dollars         Percent of average
1970        1973           1970         1973                          1970       1973     1970           1973      1970-73
Agriculture                    1,181        1,264            18          17          2.3              4,854     4,636    85.9            78.9        -4.5
Industry                       2,488       2,666            37           36          2.3             6,392      7,162   113.2          121.9         12.0
Services                       3,082        3.434           45           47          3.7              5.702     5.830   100.9            99.2         2.2
Total average                  6,751        7,364          100          100          2.9              5,649     5,876   100.0           100.0         4.0
3/2/79



- 24 -
BALANCE OF pAYMETS., IIXTEAL ASSISTANCE A DDIT
(Amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
1974                             1977al  _ Santicted                 ro1ct
SUMIRAY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (iti. NFS)                              4,762      3,704      4,730      6,585         7,410             8,786      17,143
Imports (incl. NFS)                             4,214      4,518      3,597      4,775         4,910             7,715      16,646
Resource balance                                  548       -814      1,133      1,810         2,500             1,071         477
Net factor service income                        -421       -475       -502       -524          -474              -690      -1,651
Net interest payments                          _393       -4O        -477       -393          -302              -462      -1,121
Direct investment income                        -35        -16        -27       -131          -155              -225        -400
Other factor service incoe e                                 1          2          0             0                -3        -130
Current transfers (net)                             -          5         18         31            20                 5         -30
Balance on current account                        127    -1.284         649      1 317         2.046               386      -1,204
Private direct investment                          10        -           -                        50                80         220
Public MLT loans
Disbureement                                    782        437      1,924     1,161              .             1,623       3,163
-Amvrticatiom                                   -548       -520       -596      -696                              3 - 3   -2 048
Net disbcrsementa                               234        -83      1,328                      485                        1,
Other MIT loans
Disbursement                                    261        581        581       822                              950      1,400
-Amortization                                    324       -510       -476       540                            -850      -1475
Net disbureements                               -63         71        104               2       00        1       0        0 -75
Shbrt-term capital and
transactions, n.e. i.
Change in net reserves                           -237        226    :1,155       -145           -900               _-          __
( - incresse)
Change io gross reserves                          -51      1,107         35    .2,114         -3,2435                          -
(. - i.cors..ase)                               45        855    -1,161    -1,799          -1,881              -306         -55
GRANT AND LOAN CO6MTIUlTS
Official grants & grant-like
Public M&LT loans
IBbD                                              -        -         115        205            235
Other mwltilateraI                                1        177        175       148            200
Governments                                     519         42        159       117             40
Suppliers                                       535        307       206        357            210
Financial institutions                          488        126       992        650            500
Bonds                                           290        200       200         93            170
Public loans.  .e.i.                                  -                      - 
Total public M&LT lons                       1,833        852      1,847      i70            1
DEST AND DEBT SEEVICE                1ct73l                                     get
Public debt outstanding               -      11976u                      JJf    fl
& disbursed                      2,796   3,056   2,896   4,235   4.888   5,373
Interest on public debt            199      234     251      256      30       3M
Repayunts on public debt           468      548      520     586      695    1,018
Actual debt outstandinit on Dec. 31. 1977           Total public debt service          667      782      771     852   1,005    1,392
EXTEbRNAL DEBT (disbursed only)             Disbursed only                    Percent           Other debt service                 458      415     595      568      630       78
Total debt service               1,105   1,197   1,366   1,420   1,636    2,180
I8BD                                             342                            7.0
Other sultilateral                               375                            7.7        BIRDEN ON EXPORT EARNINGS (Xl
Governments                                      657                          13.4
Sopplitra                                      1,068                          21.4           Public debt service                17.9    16.4    20.8    18.0    15.2        18.8
Financial institutions                         1,752                          35.8
Bonds                                            702                          14.4           Total debt service                 29,5    25.1    36.9    30.0    24.8        29.4
Public debts. n.e.i.                              12                           0 3           TDS + dir. inv. inmoe              31,6    25.9    37.3    30.6    26.8        31.3
Total public M6LT debt                         47U                           100.0
AvllRAC8 TERltS OF POBLIC D ET
Int. as % D0D0                     7.1      7.6     8.7      6.0     6.3       7,7
Amort. as % DOD                  16,8    18.0    17.9    14.0    14.2        22.7
IBRD debt out. & dibursed          302     340      341      342     342       353
IBRD as 7 of pub. debt D063D      10.8    11.1    11.8      8.0      7.0       6.6
IBRD debt cerv. as % of           3.9      3.8      4.8     4.8      4.4       3.2
pub. debt erv.
3/5/79



- 25-                 ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of January 31, 1979)
Amount less        Undis-
Loan No.   Year         Borrower           Purpose         Cancellations       bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                         342.3
505       1968        Argentina           Livestock           15.3              1.7
733       1971        Ferrocarriles      Railways             56.5             0.9
Argentinos S.A.
734       1971        Argentina          Highways             67.5             3.8
1330       1977         SEGBA, S.A.        Power              115.0           100.8
1384       1977        Argentina          Highways            105.0           104.9
1463       1978         Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo      Credit           100.0             99.4
1521       1978        Argentina          Grain Storage       105.0           105.0
1564       1978        Argentina          Agricultural
Credit           60.0             60.0
Total                                             966.6            476.5
Of which has been repaid                          136.4
830.2
Amount sold                      13.4
Of which has been repaid          7.0               6.4
Total now held by Bank                            823.8
Total undisbursed                                                  476.5



Annex II
Page 2 of 4
- 26 -
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of January 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                           Amount in US$ million
Year                Obligor               Type of Business      Loans      Equity   Total
(US$ million)
1960           Acindar Industria           Steel Products        3.7         -        3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960           Papelera Rio Parana, S.A. Pulp and Paper          3.0         -        3.0
1961           Fabrica Argentina de        Automotive            1.5         -        1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.       Transmission
1962           PASA, Petroquimica          Petrochemicals        3.0         -        3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/1972      Celulosa Argentina, S.A.  Pulp and Paper         12.5         -       12.5
1969/1975      Dalmine Siderca, S.A.       Steel Products       17.0         -       17.0
1969           Editorial Codex, S.A.       Printing and          5.0        2.0       7.0
Publishing
1971/1973      Calera Avellaneda, S.A.   Cement                  5.5         -       5.5
1977           Alpargatas S.A.I.C.         Textiles & Fibers    7.0          -        7.0
1977           Soyex S.A.                  Soybean Processing   9.0          -        9.0
Plant
1978           Massuh, S.A.                Pulp and paper        8.0         -       8.0
1978           Juan Minetti, S.A.          Cement and
Construction
materials             9.0         -       9.0
1978           Ipako-Industrias            Chemicals and
Petroquimicas              Petrochemicals
Argentinas S.A.                                  10.0        -       10.0
Total Gross Commitments                          94.2       2.0      96.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                             42.5       2.0      42.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                53.7        -       53.7
Total Undisbursed                                30.8        -       30.8



ANNEX II
- 27 -                   Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of January 31, 1979)
Loan 505-AR - Balcarce Livestock Project, US$15.3 million loan of July 31.
1967; Effective Date: August 31, 1967; Closing Date: July 31, 1979.
Lending to ranchers progressed very slowly from loan effectiveness
until 1970, then accelerated as cattle prices increased and technical services
improved. From 1970 to 1973, project performance was satisfactory and a sub-
stantial amount of the loan was disbursed. However, the closing of the
European Economic Community (EEC) to Argentine beef imports in 1974 limited
external demand for beef and slowed-down ranchers' demand for investment
credits. Current prospects for beef cattle development in Argentina are
improving significantly since producers' prices are increasing in real terms
under new Government pricing policies and since beef exports are expanding
rapidly due in part to the reopening of the EEC market. At present, about 96%
of the Bank loan is committed and 90% disbursed.
Loan 733-AR - Railway Project, US$84.0 million loan of April 28. 1971;
Effective Date: July 30. 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Due to the socio-economic situation of the country, it became clear
in 1973-1974 that the original Project could not be implemented. On July 2,
1974, US$27.5 million was cancelled. The remaining US$56.5 million was to
finance procurement committed by the original Closing Date, April 30, 1974.
After having come to a standstill in 1975, procurement has regained momentum.
The last of 59 contracts for Bank-financed goods was finally signed in May
1976. About $0.9 million are still undisbursed.
Loan 734-AR - Third Highway Project, US$67.5 million loan of May 5, 1971;
Effective Date: July 30. 1971; Closing Date: December 31. 1979.
The overall quality of construction and supervision for the 28 road
sections included in the project is satisfactory. Fifteen of the road sections
have now been completed, but construction of the remaining thirteen sections
ran into severe problems caused by the difficult economic situation prevailing
in 1975 and early 1976. The Government has taken measures to improve the
situation and work has now resumed at a normal pace. All works are expected
to be completed by the end of 1979.
Loan 1330-AR - Electric Transmission and Distribution Program, US$115.0
million loan of November 1, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
SEGBA's rate of return improved as a result of a 50% tariff increase
in December 1977. Primarily as a result of budgetary constraints on the
funding of local cost requirements, 1978 expenditure on the project will
be only 40% of the appraisal forecast. The overall execution of the project
is now expected to be delayed by about 12 months, but this does not signif-
icantly affect the economic viability of the project.



- 28-                 ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1384-AR - Fourth Highwav Prolect: US$105.0 million loan of May 16. 1977;
Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The civil works component was delayed because of the Government's
efforts to reduce public expenditures. Calls for civil works tenders is under
way and the first contracts have been awarded.  Other project components are
being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan 1463-AR - Industrial Credit Project; US$100.0 million loan of September 23.
1977; Effective Date: November 28, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
So far five subprojects have been sent for Bank review. Commitments
totalling, US$7.0 million have been made. The credit component of the project
is proceeding somewhat behind schedule because of a lag in overall industrial
investment. BANADE's financial condition remains sound and management has
begun taking important steps for further strengthening of its organization
and procedures.
Loan 1521-AR - Grain Storage ProJect; US$105.0 million loan of June 29. 1978.
1977; Effective Date: November 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30. 1983.
General consultants (Cuyum-Ingeneco) for project execution were
contracted in October 1978. The preliminary designs for the project silos
have been submitted to the Grain Board and are being evaluated by the Project
Unit with the assistance of the general consultants. Selection of consultants
for detailed designs and invitation for prequalification of contractors for
the project works are expected in March. The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1564-AR - Agricultural Credit Project: US$60.0 million loan of June 29,
1978; _Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30. 1983.
The Project is preceeding as scheduled.



ANNEX III
- 29-                           Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Data Prolect Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            13 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:         Argentine Railways and SST with
assistance of consultants
(c)  First presentation to Bank:              June 1976
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:  December 1976
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:          January 1978
(f)  Completion of negotiations:              November 22, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           June 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
The Bank has obtained assurances that:
(a) the Guarantor would transfer the capital cost of the investments for
suburban railways to a special budget; investments on the Roca
suburban railway would not reduce the availability of resources
required by the Borrower to carry out the Project and other economic-
ally justifiable projects commencing between January 31, 1979 and
December 31, 1982. The Guarantor would take the necessary measures
to ensure that an economical diversion of traffic to the Roca
suburban railway takes place; it would study the possibility of
participation in the financing of suburban railway investments by
the beneficiaries (para. 41);
(b) the Borrower would prepare and furnish to the Bank by July 1,
1980 an investment program for 1981 and 1982 (para. 47);
(c) the Borrower would meet the agreed operational and financial
targets. These targets would be revised to take into account
the conclusions of the studies to be carried out under the project
(para. 48);
(d) the Borrower would prepare as needed, and furnish to the Bank,
marketing studies for the commodities it carries (para. 51);



- 30 -                       ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) the Borrower and the Guarantor would meet agreed mainte-
nance targets (para. 51);
(f) the Borrower would carry out the recommendations of the
studies included in the project as agreed with the Bank
(para. 53);
(g) the Borrower would prepare and furnish to the Bank a program
for the improvement of grain transport operations and thereafter                    r
carry out such program as agreed with the Bank (para. 53);
(h) The Borrower would not borrow to finance operating expenses
and would limit borrowing so that principal repayments in any
future year will not exceed FA's annual depreciation provision
(para. 56);
(i) the Borrower would revalue annually its fixed assets in
operation and improve the methods for materials inventory
accounting (para. 57);
(j) the Guarantor would phase out suburban railway service in cities
other than Buenos Aires (para. 58);
(k) the Borrower would prepare and furnish to the Bank by June 30,
1980 a program for the elimination of uneconomic parcel,
baggage and postal services, and thereafter carry out such
program as agreed with the Bank (para. 58);
(1) the Guarantor and the Borrower would set tariffs to cover at least
relevant variable costs and, when competition permits, to recover
a share of fixed costs, and adjust tariffs whenever the whole-
sale price index increases over 10% since the latest adjustment
(para. 58);
(m)  the Guarantor, from June 30, 1979, would not object to the
Borrower modifying its freight tariffs unless such modification
results in a monopolistic benefit to the Borrower (para. 58);
(n) the Borrower would take the necessary measures to expedite payment
for services rendered (para. 58);
(o) the Guarantor would introduce a system of specific subsidies
for uneconomic lines and services or for tariffs held below the
relevant variable cost at the request of the Government, and a
general subsidy to cover other losses (para. 59).



W=te1t        rrE0 :'0 ¢-r   . 7 g-f}g                             giEg2  c  ,, 1fa  i2 .   l   IR .A iol C  t }> ;7 
e ' ....................................................................................................................................... i  trO, Sm pN -;NLLr{qAr  t
i20=   0                                               t                                    a. f~0 
,,,, = i N 2 LJ ~~~E *r- iJt      r    ,  , -1-; g ?  iL- r,    
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~uu                                                                   iHI  PO D.UAX
.  C   >+wss } CA~~~~~~CTAMARCA   |mU  S  -
:fA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                tic
ip  SAN  JUAN ii L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G-,                                        oLbbe 0 t' °3   
t\ c ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~110 X &T0,- ,,1c
e; < $ < g ,::$'1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SO- }9
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                             e: i  _* t:    g<N:;r- , .  



