Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2684-BU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
January 9, 1980
I  Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of  I
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        -        Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$1.00              -        FBu 90
FBu 1                =        US$0.011
ABBREVIATIONS
EEC    -  European Economic Community
ILO    -  International Labor Organization
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Program
UNESCO - United Nations Education, Science and
Culture Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -    December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Burundi
Amount:               US$15.0 million (IDA)
Terms:                Standard
Project
Description:  (i)  Purpose:  To assist the Government in (a) training
middle level technicians and skilled workers in
industrial trades and secretarial/administrative skills;
(b) implementing and evaluating the reform of the educa-
tion system; and (c) strengthening the planning, super-
vision and project implementation capacity of the
Ministry of Education and its related services.
(ii) Components: (a) construction, furnishing and equipping
of two new boarding technical schools, a Mechanics
Department and a Typist and Bookkeeper Training Depart-
ment in two existing schools and staff housing; (b)
provision of equipment, materials and vehicles to the
Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education, the Technical
and General Secondary Education Bureaus and the Project
Implementation Unit; and (c) technical assistance and
preinvestment studies.
(iii) Benefits: Increased availability of skilled manpower in
essential trades required to support Burundi's economic
development programs; improved efficiency and quality of
technical education; improved performance of education
planning and project implementation services of the
Ministry of Education.
(iv) Risks: The project does not face unusual risks.
Recruitment of national teachers of the desired quality
may prove more difficult than anticipated and some
delay may occur in recruiting suitably qualified
expatriate teachers. These risks have been taken into
account in the design of the project and are acceptable
given the high priority accorded to technical education
in Burundi (which is reflected in the increasing share of
budgetary funds allocated for this purpose).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
(US$' million)
Local         Foreign        Total
Civil Works furniture
equipment, materials and
vehicles                         2.85           8.00         10.85
Technical assistance and
professional services            0.24           0.99          1.23
Project administration             0.11           0.21          0.32
Total                         3.20           9.20         12.40
Contingencies allowances
Physical (10%)                   0.32           0.92          1.24
Price (32%)                      1.13           3.23          4.36
Total Project costs           4.65          13.35         18.00
(net of taxes)             3.95          13.35         17.30
(US$' million)
Financing Plan                    Local         Foreign        Total
Government                         2.3            --            2.3
IDA                                1.6           13.4          15.0
Total                         3.9           13.4          17.3
Estimated Disbursement:
US$' million
Bank FY   1981      1982      1983      1984     1985
Annual                         0.70       4.40      5.90     3.00      1.00
Cumulative                     0.70       5.10    11.00    14.00    15.00
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 2659-BU dated January 7, 1980.
Map: IBRD 14428



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Burundi for the equivalent of US$15.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second Education Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic memorandum on Burundi (1838-BU) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 25, 1978. An Economic Mission visited
Burundi in November/December 1979 and its report will be distributed in June
1980. Preliminary conclusions of the Mission are provided below and updated
country data in Annex I.
Background
3.        With an average GNP per capita of about US$140, Burundi is one of
the poorest countries in the world and is designated as "least developed"
by the United Nations. Of a population of about four million, only 90,000
are wage earners; the remainder depend mainly on subsistence agriculture.
The Government is facing several critical problems in its efforts to develop
the economy: the capability to prepare and manage programs and projects is
weak; the agricultural labor force is largely untrained; and population
growth keeps straining Burundi's productive resources, particularly in
agriculture. Despite a stated policy of "spaced births", the problems of
population pressure cannot be solved in the immediate future. A major effort
must be made to increase agricultural productivity. Agricultural yields have
been declining, as more and more marginal land has been brought under cultiva-
tion. The search for more arable land has caused large-scale deforestation,
resulting in a severe lack of firewood in the rural areas and forcing the
development of alternative energy sources.
4.        Improvements to the internal transport system will be of limited
effect unless reliable external links can be established. Shipments of
imports and exports through the principal outlets via Tanzania have tradition-
ally encountered frequent delays due to bottlenecks in the port of Dar-es-
Salaam, underinvestment in the railway link between Tabora and Kigoma on Lake



- 2 -
Tanganyika, and losses because of theft. However, some action is being taken
to improve the situation. For example, several donors (Canada, ]3elgium and
the European Development Fund) are considering financing the rehabilitation
of railway and port infrastructure in Tanzania. The link via Rwanda and
Uganda to the former East African Railways and the port of Mombasa (Kenya) is
becoming increasingly attractive with the continuing improvement in national
highways between Bujumbura and Mombasa.
5.        Recent Economic Developments.  Over the period 1973-78, Burundi's
GDP grew at a rate of only 3.6 percent per annum in real terms compared to the
2.2 percent annual growth of its population. Growth was concentrated mainly
in the capital city, particularly in manufacturing and construction activity.
Food crop production grew significantly more slowly than did population, while
the production of export crops (including coffee, the main source of foreign
exchange earnings) tended to decline.
6.        The overall investment rate of the economy rose considerably in
1977-78, when it accounted for 12.7 percent of GDP, but it is still below
the average for low-income countries. The allocation of investment between
production and infrastructure, one-third and two-thirds, respectively, has
not changed noticeably in recent years. The bulk of investment in the rural
areas has been to a large extent financed by official external aid and has
been allocated mostly to export crops. In 1978, the public sector accounted
for about 94 percent of gross fixed capital formation. This has been accom-
plished largely by government investment in social and transport infra-
structure and by the activities of public corporations. Investment by
private enterprises has been relatively weak, reflecting in part the excess
capacity prevailing in certain industries and the limited financial and
managerial capabilities of most private firms.
7.        Owing to high coffee prices in 1976 and 1977, export earnings, in-
come and Government revenue rose sharply in those years. By the end of 1977,
Burundi had accumulated about US$89 million in net foreign reserves, equiva-
lent to 11 months of imports. The improvement in the terms of trade resulted
in income gains equivalent to an increase of about one-fourth of GDP over
1975. These increases accrued primarily to the Government through higher
export taxes; the rest was shared by the small coffee producers through
increases in producer prices. The increase in Government revenues allowed
substantial increases in current and investment expenditures. In spite of
these, overall budgetary transactions, which had showed a small deficit in
1975, registered a surplus in 1976 and 1977 due to the higher growth of tax
revenues.
8.        In the wake of a 50 percent decline in the average price of coffee
exports, rapid import growth stemming from strong consumer demand, rising
public investment, and significant increases in import prices and costs of
insurance and freight, Burundi lost US$9 million of its reserves during 1978
(despite a large increase in grants and net disbursements of external loans).
By August 1979, net international reserves had fallen to US$40 million,
equivalent to about five months of imports. Faced with a significant decline
in revenues from coffee exports, and with rapidly rising expenditures, after



- 3 -
two years of surpluses, the Government was forced to borrow from the banking
system to finance its overall deficit (2 percent of GDP).
9.        Most recently and as a result of the hostilities in Uganda, Burundi
has encountered severe difficulties in transportation which led to acute
shortages of fuel, cement and certain consumer goods in late 1978 and the
first half of 1979. Since July/August considerable improvement in the overall
supply situation has taken place. Despite this, during 1979 productive sector
activity is estimated to have stagnated and investment declined in real terms.
The shortages which prevailed over the first half of this year, significant
increases in the domestic price of oil products, rapidly rising import prices,
transportation and freight charges as well as continued pressure from the
fiscal deficit have raised the domestic inflation rate to an unprecedented
25-30 percent.
10.       Government Development Strategy.  Since 1977 the Government has
designed a new strategy to achieve social justice, ethnic reconciliation
and improved living conditions in the rural areas. The poll tax, which
was levied on all males, was replaced by compulsory deposits which can be
withdrawn after three years. In addition, the traditional obligation for
small farmers to provide services to landowners in exchange for the right to
cultivate land has been abolished. Likewise, land which was obtained in an
irregular manner for speculative purposes has been returned to the state or to
the farmers who cultivated it. Other aspects of the new policies, which are
embodied in the Third Five-Year Plan (1978-82), are: (a) to emphasize agri-
cultural production to face the increasing needs for food supplies of the
fast-growing population; (b) to increase the rate of economic growth substan-
tially in order to provide greater employment opportunities and more income to
the poorest segments of the population; (c) to raise the investment rate
significantly; (d) to give the Government a more active role in mobilizing
financial and manpower resources and in participating in mixed enterprises in
the commercial and productive sectors; and (e) to foster decentralization of
economic and social activity away from the capital city and achieve a more
balanced geographic distribution through the creation of development poles,
voluntary settlement of the peasant population in villages, and migration from
densely populated areas. To facilitate the implementation of its strategy,
the Government has strengthened the role of planning by elevating the planning
otganization to the rank of ministry and by giving it a key role in the
allocation and monitoring of public investment.
11.       External Assistance and Prospects.  Economic prospects are less
favorable than in recent years as a result of expected declines in coffee
prices. Three major challenges which the Government currently faces are
limiting the loss of reserves, preserving its revenue base, and containing
inflationary pressures. This will require cautious budgetary policies
and a significant reduction of the Government's investment targets for the
remainder of the Third Five-Year Plan. In addition, the producer price for
coffee will have to be reduced in real terms, as the world market price for
this commodity is expected to average in real terms, during 1980-82, only 56
percent of the 1976 level. The Government is currently revising its policies



- 4 -
in all of these areas. Most recently, it reduced its investment targets for
1980-84 by 40 percent in real terms. Likewise, for the period October 1, 1979
to September 30, 1980, the Government has prepared, with the IMF's assistance,
an economic and financial program whose major objectives are to reduce signi-
ficantly the rate of inflation and to limit the balance of payments deficit.
In conjunction with this program, the IMF authorized last October drawings of
SDR 8.3 million in the form of Trust Fund resources. At the same time, SDR
9.5 million in compensatory financing for the shortfall in coffee exports
experienced in 1978-79 were authorized by the IMF.
12.       If the Government continues to focus on development and strengthens
its administration, it may achieve a steady, albeit slow, improvement in per
capita income. If mining of Burundi's nickel resources proves feasible, the
prospects over the next ten years would be much better. However, the commer-
cial viability of exploiting these deposits has yet to be established.
Regional development in Central Africa will also be important to Burundi's
economy. In September 1976, Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire signed a convention
establishing the "Economic Community of the Countries of the Great Lakes."
The Community, which has its seat in Gisenyi, Rwanda, aims inter alia at
stimulating and intensifying intra-regional trade and cooperation in a wide
range of activities. A major objective of the Community is the electrifica-
tion of the Great Lakes region. The three countries have also agreed to set
up a joint development bank, to exploit methane deposits around Lake Kivu,
and to develop a fishing industry around Lake Tanganyika. They have also
instructed the Secretariat to investigate ways of improving the transport
system around the lakes in order to ease the transport bottlenecks in Burundi
and Rwanda.
13.       Disbursements of long-term loans and capital grants averaged US$34
million per annum during 1977-78, most of it coming from Belgium, the Federal
Republic of Germany, IDA, the UN agencies and the European Development Fund.
In the 1975-78 period, total long-term capital inflows amounted to about
US$110 million, of which US$64 million was in the form of grants. On December
31, 1978, Burundi's external medium- and long-term debt amounted to about
US$63.6 million (excluding undisbursed amounts), of which IDA held 22 percent.
Debt service averaged 3.5 percent of export earnings during 1978. Due to the
large proportion of grants in external assistance, IDA will probably continue
to hold an important proportion of Burundi's outstanding debt. Notwithstand-
ing the low debt service ratio, Burundi is unable to absorb any borrowing on
commercial terms, because of its poverty and the instability of its export
earnings. External aid should therefore be on grant or very concessional
terms and continue to include a substantial share of local cost financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       Since IDA lending started in Burundi in 1966, twelve Credits
have been made totalling US$55.2 million; one Credit (US$1.1 million)
helped improve water supply to Bujumbura; four Credits (US$17.3 million)
were for agriculture (two for coffee production, one for fishing and one
for forestry); three Credits (US$19.4 million, including an engineering



- 5 -
c:redit -f US$400,000) helped start a highway maintenance and improvement
program; a US$10.0 million Credit is supporting the improvement of primary
education; two Credits (US$4.0 million) were made for technical assistance
and the National Economic Development Bank received a Credit of US$3.4
million.  Nine ou  these Credits (US$44.1 million) were made after 1973
since civil strife in the years before made lending difficult. The Second
Coffee Project and the Fisheries Project are being cofinanced by the
Kuwait Fund (US$1.0 million) and the Abu Dhabi Fund (US$1.2 million)
respectively. The Second Highway Project is cofinanced by the Arab
Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) in an amount of US$6.0
million. The Forestry Project is cofinanced with a Credit of US$1.2
million equivalent made from the EEC Special Action Account. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA Credits and notes on the execution of
projects and the status of disbursements as of November 30, 1979.
15.       Project performance has been uneven, reflecting the lack of local
management capacity and technical skills which is likely to remain a major
constraint to development for some time to come. This situation has parti-
cularly delayed the execution of the Fisheries and the Second Coffee Projects,
although the implementation of the Second Coffee Project has recently
improved. Disbursement of the Credit to the National Economic Development
Bank has been lagging because of the general sluggishness of the industrial
sector. On the other hand, implementation of the First Education project
and Second Highway project is satisfactory. IDA Credits for the Forestry
and the Technical Assistance projects which were approved in May 1979 have
become effective and project execution has started.
16.       Future IDA operations in Burundi will continue to focus on improv-
ing agricultural productivity, transportation and education, and to include
assistance for project management and technical expertise. An urban project
to help improve the living conditions of the urban poor in Bujumbura and a
telecommunications project to improve the domestic telephone and telex system
were appraised in December 1979. Preparation of an agricultural development
project, which would aim at improving the living standards of the rural
population in one of the poorest areas of the country, was completed in
October 1979 and the project is expected to be appraised shortly. Further
improvements of the road sector will be envisaged under a third highway
project to facilitate the distribution of foodstuffs between surplus and
deficit areas and reduce regional price differences.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
17.       During the first half of this century, formal education was intro-
duced by Christian missionaries and expanded under Belgian administration.
Until shortly before independence (1962) the main emphasis was placed on
primary schooling. Most institutions of secondary and higher education have
been established since independence. Education was generally based on European
patterns with little relation to the local environment. Most serious was
the fact that education was reaching only a small percentage of the populat-
ion. Although primary school enrollment has slightly increased since the



-6-
inception of the First Education Project, enrollment at this level is still
estimated to comprise only about 23 percent of the relevant age group while
at secondary and higher education levels, enrollment ratios are only 2.5
percent and 0.5 percent, respectively, among the lowest in Africa.
18.       The educational system comprises three types of schools:  govern-
ment schools, government-subsidized private schools and a limited number
of independent private schools. To improve the educational system, the
Government, with UNESCO's assistance, introduced a major reform in 1973. As a
first step, the curriculum of primary education was revised emphasizing
"ruralization" and the use of the national language, "Kirundi", as the only
medium of instruction instead of French. Primary schools would be community
schools making them centers for adult education and civic activities as well.
Secondary and higher education would be reorganized and adapted to the needs
of Burundi, and would be made more efficient.
19.       Primary Education:  The reform of primary education is proceeding
satisfactorily. The Government plans to enroll some 10,000 additional
students annually to reach about 200,000 students (about 28 percent of the
relevant age group) before 1985. In addition, the Government's Five Year
Development Plan provides for the establishment of literacy centers.
Similar centers are already being operated by private religious organiza-
tions offering three shifts of two days of instruction each week over a
period of six years. Currently, the religious literacy centers provide
about 300,000 student places and the government-supported centers would
add another 20,000.
20.       Secondary Education:  Secondary education is composed of general
secondary education, teacher training, and vocational and technical courses in
various trades. General secondary education, which consists of a common
junior course of four years and a senior level of three years, has been
expanding rapidly over the past years (about 12 percent per year) and attained
an enrollment of about 7,900 students in 1978/79, spread over 29 schools.
Because of inadequate laboratories, equipment and teaching materials, secondary
education is overly theoretical and most students are insufficiently prepared
to enter higher education, in particular in the technical and scientific
fields. The Government is initiating a reform of general secondary curricula
and teaching methods to improve quality and relevance of training.
21.       Higher Education is provided by the National University of Burundi.
About 1,700 students were enrolled in the University during 1978/79, of whom
54 percent were in law, arts, economics and administration, and 40 percent in
sciences (including engineering), medicine and agriculture. Efficiency in
higher education is considered low, in particular in sciences, because the
teaching staff (of whom 60 percent are expatriate) utilize learning standards
with which students can hardly cope due to their inadequate preparation at the
previous level of education.
22.       Technical Education:  The Ministry of Education provides technical
and vocational education in 13 schools of different levels. Technical
secondary courses of three to four years' duration are given in woodwork,



- 7 -
electrical technology, mechanics, construction and civil engineering. Voca-
tional training is conducted in bricklaying, woodwork, automechanics and
metalwork. In addition, there are three agricultural schools, one school
for public works, and four paramedical training centers. During the last
three years technical education has been growing rapidly, at about 14 percent
annually. However, the present system is still neither quantitatively nor
qualitatively in line with the development needs of the economy. Most of the
technical schools have inadequate facilities and equipment for the specific
training they are supposed to provide. Their efficiency is generally low.
23.       Manpower Needs.  With ILO assistance, the Government has carried
out a study of Burundi's manpower needs and training requirements for the
period 1979-2000. Most of the 2 million people who constitute Burundi's
labor force are engaged in subsistence agriculture. About 90,000 workers
are employed in the modern sector, including almost 60,000 people in govern-
ment services, parastatal institutions and mixed enterprises. Manpower
projections indicate that employment in the modern sector will more than
double by the end of the next decade. In particular, demand for technical
manpower requiring specialized secondary education is expected to increase
substantially.
24.       In view of this increasing demand for technical manpower and to
strengthen Burundi's overall project implementation capacity, the Government
has decided to improve and expand technical education rapidly, adapt it better
to employment opportunities and make it more efficient. It intends to set
clear objectives for each level of education, to develop new curricula
consistent with these objectives, to establish a minimum age of 15 years
and raise academic standards for admission into technical education. Since
general education would thus be sufficiently mastered before admission to
technical education, the Government also plans to reduce general education
components in technical education programs and better adapt these components
to the needs of technical and vocational training. This would result in
shorter course duration and an improvement of annual output of existing
facilities.
25.       In addition to curriculum improvement, the Government plans to
increase the capacity of the technical education system through expansion of
existing schools, and construction of new facilities. Two major technical
schools located at Kamenge near Bujumbura will be expanded, namely the
Technical Secondary School (from 600 to 950 student places) and the Commercial
Secondary School (from 174 to 530 student places). The school for Con-
struction Trades at Gihanga, one of the most-efficient schools, the structures
of which are deteriorating because of unsuitable foundations, will be replaced
by a larger school (with an increase in capacity from 120 to 380 student
places) near Bubanza.  The school for Public Works in Bujumbura will be
expanded, as a temporary resource (from 110 to 270 student places), pending
construction of new facilities in Gitega. The capacity of agricultural
extension staff training schools will also be enlarged.
26.       After completion of the expansion of technical school facilities
and the revision of curricula expected by mid 1983, the capacity of technical
education (including agricultural education) would consist of about 1,300



- 8 -
student places for middle level technician training and about 2,400 student
places for skilled and semi-skilled worker training, which would result in an
annual output of 350 middle level technicians and 650 skilled and semi-skilled
workers. This compares to an expected annual demand of about 1,700 middle
level, technically trained people for the next decade. For the period 1988-
1992 annual demand for these categories of qualifications would increase to
about 2,500. The expanded technical school system would provide about 40
percent of the total expected requirements when the schools are fully
operational. The remaining requirements for technical manpower would have to
be met through on the job training
27.       Administration:  The Ministry of Education is generally
responsible for the management of the education sector. Education planning
is carried out by a Planning Unit established in 1977. The implementation
of the primary reform and the supervision of the primary system has been
entrusted to the Rural Education Bureau, a semi-autonomous department within
the Ministry, while the reorganization and reform of secondary education
are being introduced under the responsibility of the Secondary Education
Bureau and the Inspectorate. The Technical Education Bureau, which was
created in 1977 within the Directorate General of Secondary Education, is
responsible for the development and implementation of technical education
reforms.
28.       Education Finance:  Government expenditures for education have
risen in real terms at an average rate of 13 percent per year between 1974 and
1977, reaching US$15.0 million equivalent in 1977 1/. The share of education
recurrent expenditures in the Government's budget averaged about 22 percent
and is expected to rise to 25 percent by the mid-1980's. While this is a
heavy burden on the Government's budget, it is similar to that of other
African countries at comparable level of development, giving high priority to
education. In 1978, recurrent expenditures for primary education absorbed
about 44 percent of total recurrent education expenditures, followed by
recurrent expenditures for general secondary and primary teacher training
(about 26 percent) and higher education (about 20 percent). Total investment
in education for 1979-83 has been estimated at about US$70.0 million equiva-
lent (in 1978 prices), about 20 percent of total projected investments. As a
result of the expansion of the technical school system, recurrent expenditures
for technical education are expected to increase from about 6 percent of total
recurrent education expenditures in 1978 to about 9 percent in 1983.
29.       External Assistance:  Total official foreign aid to the education
sector amounted to US$16.9 million in 1977, about 51 percent of total educa-
tion financing. From 1974 to 1977, the level of official foreign aid remained
almost static while the Government's contribution increased rapidly. Belgium
is the major source of bilateral assistance and provides a substantial number
of teaching staff (about 110 teachers), technical advisers and fellowships.
Belgium also assists in financing the extension of the Technical Secondary
1/   Latest year for which full data are available.



- 9 -
School iii Kamenge and developing the engineering department of the University
and intends to provide teaching staff for the technical schools envisaged
under the proposed project. France provides teaching staff and technical
assistance. About 2,075 students, of whom 562 (or 27 percent) are receiving
technical training, are at present benefiting from fellowships from a variety
of sources. The European Development Fund finances about a third of these
technical fellowships and is prepared to increase its assistance in the near
future. UNDP has also expressed interest in providing equipment and
specialists' services to technical education.
30.       Bank Group Experience:  Since IDA first became associated with the
development of Burundi's education sector in 1973, a regular exchange of views
has taken place with the Government on the implementation of the reform of the
educational system. During preparation and implementation of the First
Education Project regular discussions have been held with the Government on
issues such as equitable access to primary education, school distribution and
ruralization of the curriculum, as a result of which the Government made
several modifications in its primary education system to make it more effi-
cient and equitable. Implementation of the First Education Project (Credit
679-BU) has generally been satisfactory, although the project has encountered
considerable difficulties, which were beyond the control of the Government.
Initially, it proved difficult to find adequate local contractors to carry
out school construction on sites dispersed throughout the country, which
required the establishment of the Project Unit's own construction force. Once
construction had gotten well underway, regional shortages of cement caused
work stoppages on several occasions, in particular during the past year
because of transport difficulties resulting from the hostilities in Uganda.
The latter events brought project execution virtually to a halt and have
delayed its completion by about a year. Because of sharply increased costs of
supplies, the available Credit funds may not permit the construction of all
100 schools originally envisaged. To date twelve primary schools, a teacher
training center and the printshop for the Rural Education Bureau have been
completed and another eight primary schools are nearing completion. The
project is expected to be completed by 1983.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The proposed project was identified by an IDA-UNESCO Mission in 1978
and prepared by the Government with UNESCO's assistance. In November 1978,
IDA approved an advance of US$135,000 from the Project Preparation Facility,
which would be refinanced by the proposed Credit, to help finance a preinvest-
ment study on technical education to prepare the project. The project was
appraised by IDA in May 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington from
November 29 to December 3, 1979. The delegation from Burundi was led by
Mr. Jean-Baptiste Ndikumana, Project Director, Ministry of Education. A Staff
Appraisal Report on the Second Education Project in Burundi (Report No.
2659-BU) is being circulated to the Executive Directors separately. The main
features of the project are highlighted in the Credit and Project Summary
given at the beginning of this Report, supplemented by Annex III.



- 10-
Project Objectives and Description
32.       The project, which would be carried out over a period of five
years, would assist the Government in: (a) training middle-level technicians
and skilled workers in industrial trades and secretarial/administrative
skills; (b) implementing and evaluating the reform of the education system;
and (c) strengthening the planning, supervision and project implementation
capacity of the Ministry of Education and its related services. The project
would provide for the construction, furnishing and equipping of 1,080 tech-
nical secondary student places, 990 student dormitory places and the equipping
of major ministerial services. Specifically, the project would comprise:
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of (i) two
new boarding technical secondary schools (including
staff housing); (ii) a Mechanics Department in an
existing technical secondary school; and (iii) a
Typist and Bookkeeper Training Department in an
existing commercial secondary school (including
boarding and staff housing);
(b) provision of equipment, materials and vehicles to
the Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education, the
Inspectorate, the Technical and General Education
Bureaus and the Project Implementation Unit; and
(c) technical assistance and preinvestment studies.
Project Schools
33.       Construction Trade Training School:  This new school (which would
be the only secondary school in the densely populated district of Bubanza)
would enroll 380 students and have an annual output of 110 graduates following
a three-year course in masonry/concrete construction, plumbing, electrical
installation and general mechanics. The curriculum would consist mainly of
workshop and field practice and related theory, and some general education
(Kirundi, French, mathematics and sciences) related to technical subject
matters. Graduates from the school are expected to be hired as skilled
workers by public and private construction agencies or to start a private
business of their own.
34.       School for Public Works:  The new Public Works School would replace
the existing secondary public works school located on an unsuitable, con-
stricted site in Bujumbura. It would be located in Gitega, the second largest
town in Burundi situated in the center of the country, where the Government
intends to establish its second major development pole after Bujumbura. The
site is suitable for practical training, in particular with heavy equipment.
The school would provide three-year programs in surveying, construction
supervision, drafting and rural engineering/hydraulics for about 270 middle-
level technicians, and training in heavy-duty equipment operation and main-
tenance for about 60 skilled workers. Workshop and field practice would
represent a substantial part of the training program. The annual output is



- 11 -
expected to be 95 middle-level technicians and skilled workers. The school
would also be used to upgrade the staff of the Ministry of Public Works.
School graduates are expected to be employed by the Ministry of Public Works
and private construction firms. Responsibility for the operation of the
school would be transferred to the Ministry of Education before June 30, 1983
(at present the Public Works Ministry is in charge of the public works school
in Bujumbura) because the Ministry of Education is better equipped to support
and supervise training programs (Section 4.04 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
35.       Mechanics Department:  A new Mechanics Department would be con-
structed at the Technical Secondary School in Kamenge near Bujumbura which
would offer a three-year course to 90 students with an expected annual output
of 25 middle level technicians specialized in general mechanics and industrial
drawing. The site for the school was selected because Bujumbura is likely
to remain the main industrial center of Burundi. The curriculum would include
about 70% of technical instruction, half of which would be workshop practice,
and also some general education in languages, mathematics and sciences as
required by the vocational program. The Mechanics Department would be used as
a model for the reorganization of the Technical Secondary School and for
replication of its program orientation in other technical schools. Belgium
has agreed to finance the construction of 250 dormitory places for the school
(in addition to the 370 places already available) which would also be avail-
able to the students of the Mechanics Department. The Government would
provide staff housing (Section 4.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
36.       Typist and Bookkeeper Training Department:  The project would
provide a new department in the existing commercial secondary school in
Kamenge near Bujumbura to train typists and bookkeepers. The Department
would be the only training institution in Burundi for this type and level of
skills. It would provide 280 student places of which half would be for girls.
The two-year course would include vocational training (almost two thirds of
the curriculum) and general education, mainly in languages. The expected
annual output would be 130 graduates equally distributed between typists and
bookkeepers. Although the two programs would be separate, they would include
a common core of bookkeeping, typing and office procedures to provide students
with a wide range of professional competence.
Teaching Staff
37.       About 90 teachers would be required for the proposed project, most
of whom would be teaching technical subjects. National teachers for industrial
and technical subjects would be recruited from engineers and technicians
expected to return from studies abroad before the proposed project schools
become fully operational in 1985. A sufficient supply of national teachers
is expected to be available; at present, 196 students are following technical
and engineering courses in Burundi and 336 engineers are being trained abroad.
These students benefit from fellowships offered by the Government in exchange



- 12 -
for a commmitment to serve for at least 10 years upon graduation in positions
specified by the Government, including education. In addition, a salary
incentive of about 30 percent of the basic salary is already offered to
university graduates joining the teaching profession. The Government also
utilizes its own ministerial technical staff in part-time teaching.
38.        Foreign aid (Belgium, France and UNDP) is expected to provide
expatriate teachers to fill positions for which national teachers might
not be available in time and to give pedagogical advice to newly trained
national teachers. No difficulty is anticipated in recruiting the required
number of national teachers for general and commercial subjects from exist-
ing training institutions in Burundi.  The Government would ensure that the
project schools would be staffed at all times with experienced and qualified
personnel including teacher trainers to provide pedagogical guidance to
national teachers (Section 4.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Finally, after adequate training on the job, the most suitable graduates from
the technical schools financed by the proposed project, could be selected as
teachers for the technical education system at large.
Common Elements of the Technical Education Components
39.       To improve the efficiency of technical education, the Government
would take the following measures before December 31, 1981 (Section 4.05 of
the Development Credit Agreement):
(i) students admitted to industrial and commercial courses
for skilled worker training must be at least 15 years
old and must have completed at least two and three
years, respectively, of the four-year junior cycle of
general secondary education;
(ii) students entering middle level technician training
must have successfully completed the junior cycle of
general secondary education; and
(iii) most graduates from technical training courses would
not proceed to the next higher level of training;
only the most promising students would be given an
opportunity to enter the next higher level but only
to the extent that their number would not exceed
10 percent of the students entering that level.
This measure would result in most graduates joining
the labor market at the level and in the special-
ization for which they have been trained instead of
continuing studies (as is often done in the present
education system) for which they do not have the
proper background.
The Government would also ensure that before September 30, 1980, employers
participate in the organization and operation of technical schools so that
training programs would better respond to the needs of the economy (Section
4.07(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); employers would partici-
pate in schoolboards, curriculum development, in-school and in-plant training



- 13 -
activities, and graduates' vocational guidance and orientation. In addition
all students would be boarders as project school students would be recruited
on a nation wide basis and no adequate accommodation is locally available.
Preinvestment Studies
40.       The Government intends to establish a basic education system which
would combine the best features of the existing formal primary education and
literacy programs to reach universal literacy by the end of this century. In
order to determine whether the expansion of the present literacy programs is
justified and what the new basic education system should be, a study would be
carried out to evaluate the cost effectiveness of literacy centers as compared
to primary schools and to analyze the geographic distribution of the literacy
centers and primary schools. The study is expected to be completed by mid-
1980. Another preinvestment study, focusing on technical education, helped
prepare the proposed project, as indicated in para. 31.
Technical Assistance and Professional Services
41.       Two expatriate engineers would be hired for three and a half years
each to assist the Mechanics Department of the Secondary Technical School and
the Public Works School in monitoring and controlling delivery and installa-
tion of equipment, preparing the plans of operations and coordinate the
completion of syllabi. In addition they would manage the implementation
of vocational training programs and train counterparts and technical teachers.
The Project Implementation Unit established in the Ministry of Education
during the First Education Project would be strengthened by an additional full
time architect, two additional construction supervisors and a procurement
specialist. The execution of the basic education study would require about 6
man months of specialist's services. All specialists would have adequate
qualifications and experience and be employed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Implementation
42.       The Project Implementation Unit would be responsible for the exe-
cution of the project including administrative and financial control, and
design and supervision of construction of project buildings. The Unit is
presently headed by a Burundi national assisted by an expatriate architect, an
accountant and two construction supervisors. The total manpower of the unit,
including the additional staff to be hired during the project (para. 41) would
comprise about nine professionals and their support staff. Construction works
would be carried out by private contractors for the academic and boarding
facilities of the Construction Trade Training School and the Public Works
School. The construction force of the Project Implementation Unit and/or
local sub-contractors selected on the basis of local competitive bidding
would build staff housing, the Mechanics Department of the Secondary Technical
School and the Typing and Bookkeeping Department of the Commercial Secondary
School; based upon experience in the first education project, this method of
construction can be expected to be more economical and efficient for these
project items than using private contractors.



- 14 -
43.       The Technical Education Bureau of the Ministry of Education would
prepare and furnish to the Association before December 31, 1981 a tracer and
evaluation program to follow and assess the activities of technical education
students during their training and after their graduation and to assess the
Borrower's technical education system. Implementation of this program, which
should be satisfactory to the Association, would start before September 30,
1982 (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The evaluation
would indicate whether the new curricula, course duration and admission
requirements for the project schools need to be modified.
Project Cost and Financing
44.       The total cost of the project has been estimated at US$17.3 million
(net of taxes amounting to about US$0.7 million) of which US$13.4 million (or
77 percent) in foreign exchange. The proposed US$15.0 million IDA Credit
would finance about 87 percent of total project cost net of taxes. This
proportion of IDA financing, including the financing of US$1.6 million of
local costs, is justified in view of Burundi's very limited financial resources
(para. 13). The Government would contribute about US$2.3 million (about 13
percent, excluding taxes). Recurrent costs generated by the project have been
estimated at about US$0.8 million annually, which amounts to about 3 percent
of the projected recurrent budget of the Ministry of Education for 1985.
Procurement
45.       Civil works contracts would be awarded as follows:  (a) civil works
contracts for the academic and boarding facilities of the Construction Trade
Training School and the Public Works School (about US$7.2 million equivalent
including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines; (b) construction
of staff housing, the Mechanics Department and the Typing and Bookkeeping
Department (about US$3.9 million equivalent including contingencies) would be
carried out by the construction force of the Project Implementation Unit
and/or local sub-contractors selected on the basis of local competitive
bidding; and (c) contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles (about US$4.3
million equivalent including contingencies) would be awarded following inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines
for procurement, except for contracts costing less than US$50,000 (within a
total limit of US$600,000) which would be awarded following competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Disbursement
46.       Disbursement would be as follows:  85% of total expenditures for
civil works under contract and 75% of local expenditures for civil works
carried out by force account; 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local
expenditures respectively for directly imported and locally procured construc-
tion materials, furniture, equipment and vehicles; 100% of foreign expendi-
tures and 80% of local expenditures for technical assistance; 65% of total
expenditures for salaries of the Project Unit's staff and national specialists



- 15 -
carrying out the Basic Education Study and 85% of local expenditures for other
operating costs; and 100% refunding of the Project Preparation Facility
advance.
Benefits
47.       The proposed project would assist in training specialized manpower
in key trades thereby reducing the shortage of skilled staff, which is a major
constraint to the economic development of Burundi; the project output would be
about 360 graduates per year. The reform of curricula and teaching methods in
the project schools would improve the relevance of the technical education
system to the actual requirements of the economy and provide a model for
replication in other institutions. As a result, a larger number of students
are expected to elect technical education thereby easing the demand for
general secondary education. Limiting the flow of students from lower level
to higher level technical training would ensure the availability of qualified
manpower at the levels and in specializations more urgently required thus
making the system more rational and more responsive to manpower needs.
Students would also benefit from the experience of private and public
employers participating in the organization and operation of the schools. The
strengthening of the Ministry of Education and the improvement of education
planning and implementation services would come at a critical time when a
comprehensive reform of the education system is being developed.
Risks
48.       The project would not face any unusual risks.  It may not always be
possible to attract national teachers of the required quality in time and some
delay may occur in recruiting qualified expatriate teachers and specialists
required to help introduce the innovative concepts of the technical education
reform. However, these risks are inherent to the overall development process
in Burundi and have been taken into account in the design of the project. As
already indicated in para. 38, the Government has agreed to ensure that the
project schools would be staffed at all times with experienced and qualified
personnel (Section 4.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Generally,
the risks will be minimized because of the priority the Government has given
to technical education. Therefore the legislative and administrative actions
required to introduce the new curricula and to implement the project
are expected to be completed rapidly and sufficient budgetary funds for
recurrent and capital expenditures are expected to be made available. Close
supervision by the services of the Ministry of Education, including the
Project Implementation Unit, would further limit possible risks during
execution of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Burundi and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 16 -
50.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in Annex III of this report. There are no special
conditions of effectiveness.
51.        I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONNENDATION
52.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 9, 1980



-17-                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
BURUIDI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND3UGA (THOUSAND SO. K21)  aGRUN01t  REFERENCE GROUPS (ADUSTED A4-RAGES
LAND ',RhEA ("ROUSAND 30. 1M.)                                                 - MOST RECE    ESTImA -S)
TOI.               27.8                                                    SAME         SAME      NEXT 'dIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       16.9                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPT'A (US$)                    50.0        80.0      140.0            306.1      209.6        *67.5
ENERGY C0NSUF TION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       10.0 /f      15.0       12.0            80.6        83.9        262.1
POPLLATION AND VITA. STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       2.9          3.6       4.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 2.0            2.G        5.0             17.1       16.2         24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          7.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           20.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2160
POPULATION DENSIT'Y
PER Sp.  !.                       104.0        129.0      147.5             18.4       49.4         45.3
PER SQ. "2. AGRICLLTIUR.AL LAND    181.0       222.0      242.6            50.8       252.0        149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.5         42.5       42.1             44.1       43.1         45.2
15-64 YRS.                          54.6         54.7       54.3            52.9        53.2         51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9          2.8        3.6             2.8         3.0          2.8
POPU'LATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.0          2.4        2.2              2.7        2.4          2.7
URBAN                               5.3          2.4        5.0              5.7        4.6          4.3
CRUDE 3IRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.0         47.0       47.0             46.3       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.0         24.0       20.0             17.2       15.9         11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.6&         2.8        3.1              3.1        2.9          2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEX)    ,.            ..         ..              ..        12.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAITA (1969-71-100)            88.8        101.0       95.0            94.3        98.2         99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    82.0         99.0      99.0             89.5        93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRANS PER DAY)           47.0         61.0         ..            55.8        52.1         54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0         40.0        ..             17.9        13.6         17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      41.0         36.0       28.0             22.3       18.5         11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY A. BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0          40.0       45.0             47.0       49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..       140.0         ..              ..       105.4         68.1
ACCESS TO SAnF WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..          ,            20.3        26.3         34.4
URBAN                                 *'        77.0       914.0           53.9        58.5         57.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..         .,             10.1       15.8         21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..                       22.5        16.0         40.8
URBAN                                ..                    95.0            62.5        65.1        71.3
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..             13.9        3.5         27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          63000.0      59000.0   45430.0          17424.7    11396.4       6799.4
POPULA-ION PER NURSING PERSON      5420.0       7500.0    6240.0           2506.6      5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             730.0        790.0      760.0           502.3      1417.1       726.5
URBAN                                ..         70.0         ..           201.4       197.3       272.7
RURAL                                 ..       730.0         ..          1403.6      2445.9       1404.4
ADdISSIONS PER 'HOSPITAL BED           ..           ..         ..            23.4        24.8         27.5
HOUSING
AVTERAGE SIZE OF H0USEHOLD
TOTAL                                ...                     .4.9                       5.3          5.4
URBAN                                ..           ..        6.5             4.9         4.9          5.1
RAL                                  ..           ..        5.0             5.5         5.4          5.5
AVERAGE N.tBER OF ?ERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..
RURL                                  ..          ..         ..              .            ..
ACCESS -O ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
7.A.L..                                                                                22.5         28.I
RURAN                                ..           ..         21              .,        1.            9.1
RULu.                                ...9. ,                                             .           9,



-18-                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
BURUNDI - SCCIAL :ND.CATORS DATA SHEET
BURUNDI                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
M- OST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAMIE     SEXT HIGHER
7OST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCIME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE ib       REC'ON ;c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLL.ENT RATIOS
FRLMARY:     TOTAL                 18.0         35.0      23.0             59.0        63.3         82.7
MALE                  27.0        47.0       290O             64.2        79.1        87.3
PEMALE                 9.0        23.0       17.9             44.2       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0         2.0       2.5               9.0       16.7         21.4
MALE                   1.0          3.0       3.5             12.0       22.1         33.D
FEMALE                 ;.0          1.0       1.5              4.4        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  35.0          24.0       12.9              7.0        5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RASIO
PRIMARY                            36.0         37.0       32.0            42.2        41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                          15.0         12.0       i6.o            22.9        21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY .ATE (PERCENT)         13.9/f        .-       25.0            20.8        31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.8          1.0        1.3             4.0         2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            .         18.0      27.0             44.3        27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..             2.9         2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         0.1        0.3              5.6        5.3         18.3
C INEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAP ITA   ..          .          ..             0.4         1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1500.0       1700.0    1900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   45.1         44.8      44.4             31.9        24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              90.0         87.2      85.0             77.6        69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.0          3.9       5.0              7.9        10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                52.7         51.2       49.6            40.8        36.9         37.1
MALE                                 58.5         57.2       55.8             53.9       52.4         48.8
FEMALE                               47.0         45.3       43.4            25.6        18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9         1.0        0.9              1.2        1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
H'GHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..              ..          ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..         ..              ..          ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOCSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..              ..          ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..              ..          ..         16.3
POV`ERY TARGET GROUPS
ESTILMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY LNCOME
LVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     213.0            187.6        99.2       241.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..     136.0             96.8        78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..           138.4        91.9        179.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..      37.0             71.0        54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY LNCOME L'EVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                * -.                  55.0            34.5        44.1         24.8
RURAL                                ..           ..       8S.o            48.7        53.9         37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
YOTES
!a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-eighted geometric means, excluding che extreme
values of the Indicator and the most populated councry in each group. Coverage of co.ntrles among the
indicators depends on avallasility of data aad is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betweer 1959 and
1961; for 1270, between 1969 and 1971; and for Most Recent Estoiate,
between 1974 and 1978.
/c  AfrEca South of Sahara;   id  Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /c  Lower Middle Incone
($.81-550 per capEta, 1976);  /f  1962;   /g  1957.
Host Recent Esti:ate of GN? per capita is for 1978.
Reyised
December 1979



-19-                                                         ANNIEX I
091110  i ou  UMCT&                                              Page  3  of 5
ftUa   TMe edjstgd greta  avOra*e. for seeb todinator aer  populatlo-wigkoted geematric mao.s, ealniu g the Satza   velose -4of the i:di.'ator and th* .oat
populgted tesatry ia saab greta,.  Coversge of cooutreos same   tha indicators depends -n ev.ilability of dot. and 10 not  -1  _o   D.o to l.~atho  data.
group averages for Capital Suplae 015 taportars aed Indicators of access to vatsr and *scrtat disposal, hoostsg, in.om distribution. end po-rty ara
staple, pcpwl.tiowsiog~hted geemmetric me"a ithout the aecluaion of extreme vale..
UAD  AMA  (thousead sq. b)                                                                    Po,oltVou  er hospital bed - total. orbaa.  wAd rural- Pop.l.cif.o (otl
Total - total surface or"eamtrleas lead area sad  aleed eater..                                orba,sdrural) divided by their respective rnumber of hospital boed
AA"rutmrdlts     - Mast recast: estimata of agriteltural arsea ued t~emrs.i1y                  available  In public sad private general and specialized hospital sd re-
.r peesmetly far  tr.ps, pastures, market and kltchm  gerdes"  or to                         habilit4tiOu nests...  Esep-itAls are *stabli.hoeet. p.reazoetly st.fted by
11. fafll".                                                                                  at least oMe phy.iclas.  16tsblieb.eot. praviding priocipally tuatodlal
tae are set iscioded.  IL-ar  hospitals, houev.t, isciud. health add .041-
CNP PRl CAtITA fUjSS, -Gio  per capiaatts  stiaz    at .-vaot sarhat prices.cal ut-etor oat peromeatly staffed by a phy.ictee, (but by a sadical as-
calculated by ued teevaretee sotbod a. World  aS."  Atlas (1975-77 basisa);                  siatast, oarae. sterILe. etc.) whicb offer in-patieat secosmadotios and
1960. 1970. aed 1977 data,                                                                   provide a limited range of sadical fatilitis..
AdMasimne  r hetta1 bed - Total number of admi.eiooa to or .diatscTSrge
IDeflU  CSPMwTCIn  PU  CAITA - MAmmal tesaslptiot Of cametlel esrg                              feebopial  diIded by tise a-ibar of beds.
(coal end  ligoits, patrelsee, eataal gSe ad hydra-, seUl., sAd ge0-
thermal. electriity) ts kilogram  of teal eqolvaleet per cepite. .I
Ayorilae eisa of household (oer"son   Per houehold) -total, urban. and rurl -
POPULATIOW AMD VITAL STATIStICS                                                                 A household consists of a group of indl,ldualo  alho ohcr  living quarter.
Toa   ouats    id-veer fsllbtoe) - As of Oly ii If set avallabla.                     and their "in meale.  A hoarder or lodger say or any not he included in
average of ta   edperaSIeI190   1970  so                     977 data,                        the houehbold for stetieti-s  pross   Statistital definitione  of house-
Urban, sosulation foertet of total) - Ratio of urbaa to total populs-                          holdvay
tioo; diff4ra2t defiot1na4 of urban araae sey affeCt car4.biltty                          Avarase amer Of pereosa Pat roane - totol. urban, and rural - Averaga otm-
of data  muga co-ati.se.                                                                     bar of ptranon  par too. is, all, urban, and rural occupied ...v-.tiotal
Populattes density                                                                             dvollingo, respectively.  D"eelilng  setlude ooo-pateaent structures sod
Per  sq, he. - KId-year population, per squera kilsetar (100 hecttras)                        uocctupied porte.
of total area.                                                     ~~~~~~~~Access to electriclt   (seotofd lln)- total. orb... aad rural1
pers.   . aericu1tuta lan   - Cospated as above for sgricultUraI le                           Cooventioa   dlling  with elecdtricit  inU           vrRurer   .prara
only.                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of toal. urhar,  eod rural drIllinga teapettively.
FPopultloa.. seatrut.r. (percent) - Cbildr.. (0-lU years), varktog-Sge
(15-64 Years). and retired (65 years and ...er) as per.et gotae   of old-               EDUCATION
"sar pout"is                                                                             Adjusted  arolm        traioe
Popol.tioTsrouth 'rats (percent) - total, sod urban - Copmond annual                        Prlsary echool - ctota, aI fesal  -  1totl an            -1al.oolso  of all agoe
growtb Orates of total And orsb mi-s  populations for .5950-60.                              at tha prisary level asptessa    of rso.ti-sly primary e.hoo-a-.e
I9079. 9n 170-75.                                                                           populatioos; Aoruelly Inclodes children aged h-11 years hut adjust.d  for
Cuab rtrae  (per chouosed) -Ao           iebrh    a   hwsdo                             different length. of prisary oduc..tios; for  -ount.ioa  ithonvra   edo-
aid- year population ; ten-year arithmatit aegesndin10  to 1960 and                         ctato ..oro.i11sot may anteed 100 percent slots .om   pupils are halov  or
1970 and five-yas. average ending is 1975 for -at recant eetieta.                            bove th. official echool ag..
Crude death rate (oar thoua.md) - AMua1 A-tha per thou.send of mid-                          Secoodr,y school - total. and fasale - Computed as above  oecoodarv aduce-
year popul.tios; too-year 4rithetic  avraes.diog to 1960 and 1970                           tios requires st ioast four years of opprovod prisary instruction; Pro-
an   t    --sr aveg. endig Ja 1975 for meat retes.t ostimate.                       vidoe             ...ra   vctional . or tis.ch.r traistog ioacr-ti... Coo pupils
Iron  reproductio  race - Avergo ohep  o  daughters a voean ulli hoar                          usually of 12 ao 17 years of age; corroepond..c.  -orosa cr0 goS..rally
to her norml ceptodutliv  period if abe aepari .n.ee  pr .... Zage-                         sccluded.
specific fert Ility rates; usual ly fev-ernvrlssding 10 1960,                             Vocaltiona  aoolaet (Percent of 6etosdary) - Vocstloo..l ioctituti... in-
1970. ad 197S.                                                                              clds t!rho!ica1, indoatrial, or other progra,s ohich operat. iodependently
Peally Dismalos - ecceptor.  snal(husns -                 MA-u"l oab*r of                      oa.dptanefscnaristIttos
occaporn o  hirr-rootol deicasunde  samice  of national fatly                   upltacr d rsi           orae.sdscnry-Ttltuotsnoodi
pisolgprga.priayed seodary 1-sl  dividsd by vuab.r. of toachers in the torte-
Tsail, aiole..    - useras ...rt.oc of -trried  -oa) -  scnsso                                  poiglola
married vaote of child-he,arig ags (15-1.8 ysore) who aec b1ircth1-control Adult lit ..... rats (P., ...t) - Liter..t. adult. (able to road ..d -rit.) o
d-vice  to  ll married  nine, is  ama age. grop.                                            a prrastago of total adult popolactio  .agd 13 years sad over.
FWOD AME  OUTOITIOM                                                                        CONSI9LPTtON
indan of fond p.roductIo  per ca:pIta (1970-100) -  sd..au obar of par                                                           1:sno   ar   pttowsdppltion)  - Passenger cars coprios otter care
capia asuel  rodotiosol al fod coseaditias.                                     Iero    esta   igtpros                    ldss abula.ce.., hear... -nd etlitary
Par  aseit. eupply of calories (percent of raeuirauent.) - Computed fr-                     vehicles.
enry oquivjat of met food supplies available in ~coutry P.r ..Pit.                       Radio r .c.ive.. (par thousand population) - All typos of recivere o:               ai
per da.y.  Available supplies rompriasd..         l   rdcro.iprsls                        bcosdcoata to general public per thousan;d of population; soldn   nicne
exports, and changes is stock.  Net eupplie   .rlud   anMaL"  fond, seeds                 rc   iveet  .ootti.a end 10 y..r. ohs..rgerc                   of rsdio se.0  -s  it
qusaitle   uae  Infoodprocsait. an   oss1    tstibution          t-              obffst; data for retort yesr- may not be coparoblo since  sot countries
quiresAt: were soisted  by PIAC h d on" physIological  nee ds for" nr-                    aoished liesig
sal actiLvity sod health  r-iero    niroOseetal tasp ...tcrr. body                       TVreivr   (Per Chou..sod ponulatiool  - TV recivero  for broadcas t tc g.n.td
w_ightsz .tag:ad OodistribuIon  of populatttun, and allowing 10 per-                        yubllc.perfthousan.d, poulation:cocludee uclicond TV r-coiv.rs 10cop
0rforwseat houaehold loya.                                                                trioAnd inpA         wh:c registrationo  TV sets,: oeIneffec..
Per capita asuenlY of protei. (sarse per d.y) - Ptocsi. content of per                     ON...patr cic to  (per thuooad prlco(                     Show  the  -verge   icua
cpita net supply of food par da. Noeupyf food Is def ined as                               clan of "dolly g.  rlitootCwpapet, defined 0 as    pnniwdicu1 publi-
obov.-.Iqutoosanrt  f or all couct1rios   'ta.blishod  hb  USDA ptovtdo for                  ctindovotrd priarly:1~. to recording goa1nw. It is considered to
a eltmu  allwana o  6U  roa  oftota  prtei   pr d, n   0goth    al    fI    Ppar   at loer four tints ouse.k.
of aC Ima  adpuls .. oc.... in,f which 10 greau  ehoold he animal protein.               Co..a .n..a. Iattenat  co- per -it. pat y..r -Ote..d on the ttub.t of tickets
Thess etncudrds ors lowe  than thus. of 75 grass of total protein and                        sold during tho poor. Including oeoosto  rint-iC cicomes und mobile
23  ra,_a of anisa1 Protein as enoorg   for the owrld, proposed by                          u-it..
FAO in the Third World Food Survy.
Per c_Pita Protein  upply fron enisal and pulse _ Protein oupply of food                  ELOYPIEVNT9
derve  from anim:als an  pulssI  gras  Onr day.                                        Ttotal labor forc   (t hou,oArdo)  -.feonroically active person..:       iuiC   te
Child (e.1h   otlt  cos(e                    cAnd) - Annual deaths per rh.u.-                  forces *cd u.. P,v_d hut eclding housowiv-,  tiudent . ntc. i. Ifeft.-
and is age group 1-4 years. to child... it this ags group.                                   tions in Cart 00  cOun.tries 5r. tot onep.rabe..
HtALIHl                                                                                      Aelutr   pvoi  -   bahr forfI amn ., fo try, hotin And fishcn
Lif            'Yocuo  at birth (vets ...  .Average noeb   of yearsr  of life        .            percen.tage of tot.l labor force.
rif'lngP    a  birtch;sal   fieyear avcae  odlgin 1.960, 1970,                            inuty(orp  ,-Lbor  force in mining, construction ......facturlog  and
cod 1975.                                                                                   olcrct,ottadgsa   ecent"aaof total lsbor fon.. 
ICAf.t mortality race  pr thouad)             Acta   .oathe of itfant . und.c              Poritatonrte(p.rot) - rra.t   mo ..sd feosle  - Totl   ae   n
coo pear of age p.r thousan d lire bhits.'e                                                          labor For-  a- p---eto- of the ir r-apet-i-              ultbc
Accees to .are racer (ne""no  of  aonulcin-  otl  ura., and rural1                             Th... ore tOLIn od)uetd participaltio   rate-   .fl..-gaPe
Nouabh  of psople  (total, urban,V ZC  rua)oTreasonable  -cc... in                           --tru -ref lho populoclon.  and I- c    ine  --nd.
-                na~~.f. sara.  supply. (inclds "n.csd :urfaco t            -o.a  untreatd hut            E-on-ic d.tondo.-  telio - Rt-rcoif popularion  u.det 1i arC 65 andcs o
,"'tin trs tnad oaer euh asthar froPr ...nactd boteholos, Opri.Se.                           the labor fort. in age group of 15-64 P50
an   aitary wells) a. percntsgse of thtei  respective po,pul.ci.oo.
In a  urban sr a puhllct f ...stai  or ot..dp..t located not .OtO                       [NCME XI ilTRlOlTUfI
thn20etrs  ro  a  osesy ho.  "    cb  slea   s  s    rithi. ra-                   Pocna of pivat. income (both in cas1h and kind)  .ccovod bp rio1hoOt _5
soashla ncsof thet housa.  In ruro1 areas renAble   cces   -Iud                              portnt   rihs   0 perteoc, poaretr  0prcent,  ..nd p-one  40 proec
-               ~~~Inyly th.t th  hoo-ifeo  nobem  of the house.hold do not hays tn                           of hu.ohIde
spend a dIsproportionate part of the day In fetching the fatily'
rotor neade.                                                                            PIVEiTV TACGET GROUPS
Acene t  soiatodispsl(p eret  lnttaio                -totl  ub.   d                   lE,tinotd absolute    -rtett   iCiC... la-o  (i$ pr contra) -  -to-o-d tota
r,rol - NeborIof Popa(total, urha..  an  rure1) serve  by  Cntret                              Abeolote pov-rty ir-.o level  is that IA.... 1-1e below ahittnh               i
cIpoa  a   erotaao-  of chi   epotc    oplro            E. tottet                    Aurritiocally adequate diet plu .....aitia1 Aon-food  .q,iui.....t  iiii
alyea   s  lcad   h I "lo-td.            nnd tA eposo. with o" r rithoot                    affordable.
treateontC  of hon&a.. oncrr  and cat0wat     par-hnoysteea                             lEclae.t       oitpoet.noc(ol  I)ytcpt,-   hnadr.a
or tip  _me of pIt privise and' nletlor1 i.losillalono..clrc    iei    on    ee   aca   noebvlie   htinr  r
Pioulo-i- per phsca    P-Populaion dichided.hy uoher o1f yrttttitlng                           per -apite peroonaI incos  of the coun.tr-y.
aeststayt Curse..~~~~---        .pI1t.A(.b.   Ad                                                                     ':.
--- - -1   -- di~~~~~~id.d by   -b.,  f    ~ ~ ~ ~cutoni  ov  Sula rauO uo
f ... 1. 9,ad..t. A...... prac i ...... ...fdononic kotl-is ocd Po1(ich.-a ieparr--



ANNEX I
-20                                    Page   of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.     _                                               1971-77             1978
GNP at Market Prices           600.1         100.0                                              3.1              5.8
Gross Domestic Investment       85.7          14.3                                              9.0             15.0
Gross National Saving           19.2           3.2                                            -7.7             112.71/
Current Account Balance       -33.8           -5.6
Exports of Goods, NFS           71.4          11.9                                            -1.8              36.3
Imports of Goods, NFS          123.4          20.6                                              5.8              7.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added
US$ Mln.       f
Agriculture                    310.4        56.8
Industry                        86.3        15.8
Services                       150.1        27.4
Unallocated                      0.0         0.0
Total/Average          546.8       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(BuF  Mln.)           o Of ODP
1978       1978    7197- LT
Current Receipts                                                                     8,226.2        14.9          14.8
Current Expenditure                                                                  6,895.5        12.5          11.5
Current Surplus                                                                      1,330.7         2.4           3.3
Capital Expenditures                                                                 5,072.8         9.2           7.1
External Assistance (net)2/                                                          2,044.1         3.7           3.0
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                    1974          1975         1976         1977         1978         1979
(Million ButFoutstanding end periodT-            (Sept.)
Money and Quasi Money                     3,542.3       3,544.4      5,220.4      8,283.2      9,411.2      10,417.3
Bank credit to Public Sector                897.6       1,271.6      1,125.0        270.8     1,660.8        2,878.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector            2,510.8          997.0     1,532.2      1,886.9      4,491.3       8,131.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            13.0          10.8         13.3         17.2         17.0          18.8
General Price Index (1970 = 100)            132.2         153.1        164.5        175.7        239.9         300.1
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                          15.8          15.8          7.4          6.8         36.5          25.13/
Bank credit to Public Sector                  o.o          41.7        -11.5       -75.9         513.3          73.33/
Bank credit to Private Sector                91.9         -60.3         53.7         23.1       138.0           81.0-
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
l/     Cross domestic savings.
2/     Capital grants and net foreign disbursements.
3/     First nine months.
not available
not applicesble



_ 21 _                             ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADR PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWB'S
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1976      1977      1978                                                 US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Coffee                               64.5    89.1
Exports of Goods, NFS          61.5.      96.3     71.4               Cotton                                 2.3     3.2
Imports of Goods, NFS          74.8       94.7    123.4               Skins                                 0.9      1.2
Resource Gap (deficit =           -)  -13.  *7    -5                  Tea                                   1.7      2.3
Interest Payments (net)        _0.5       -0.5     -0.7
Workers' Remittances          -10.7      -13.2    -13.8
Other Factor Payments (net)   -            -         -
Net Transfers                  31.4       29.0      32.7               All other commodities                 3.o     4 1
Balance on Current Account    6.9         16.-9    -3                        Total                         72.4   100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       -          -        -                EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1978
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                4.2      17.1      23.2                                                          US $ Mln
Amortization                 2.8        2.2     -1.8
Subtotal                     1.4      14.9      21.4                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               63.6
Capital Grants                 13.9       13.8     21.0                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            -7.0       -0.3    -24.6                Total outstanding & Disbursed                63.6
Other items n.e.i                 _._     _a        6                                             1/
Increase in Reserves (+)       15.5       46.1     -9.1              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978
Gross Reserves (end yearW/  49.2          95.9     83.4
Net Reserves   (end year)    42.5         88.6     79.5                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               3.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports
of which:  Petroleum        5.8        6.o      7.2
Exports
of which:  Petroleum        -          -        -          IORD/IDA LENDING, November 30, 1979 (Million US$)
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disbursed                 -         24.4
Through Feb. 1973        Since   y 3176                           Undisbursed                             -          30.7
US   1.00 = BuF 87.5    US $ 1.00 = BuF 90.0                      Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           -          55.1
BuF lOO   = US $1.14    BuF 100   = US $1.11
From March 1973 to May 2, 1976
US $ 1.00 = BuF 78.75
BuF lOO   = US $1.27
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
2/ Central Bank.
not available                             December 1979



- 22-                           ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Burundi
(as of November 30, 1979)
Amount
Loan or                                                          US$ million
Credit                                                      (less cancellations)
Number      Year     Borrower      Purpose               Bank   IDA 2/  Undisbursed
One loan 1/ and three credits fully disbursed            4.8      3.3          -
467-BU      1974     Burundi   Highway Maintenance        -       5.0         0.6
593-BU      1975     Burundi   Second Coffee Improve-
ment                    -      5.2         1.5
613-BU      1976     Burundi   Technical Assistance    -          1.5        0.2
626-BU      1976     Burundi   Fisheries Development   -          6.0        4.4
679-BU      1977     Burundi   Education                  -     10.0         3.7
731-BU     1978      Burundi   Development Bank           -      3.4         2.5
773-BU     1978      Burundi   Second Highway Project  -        14.0        11.0
917-BU     1979      Burundi   Second TA Project          -      2.5         2.5
918-BU     1979      Burundi   Forestry                   -      4.3         4.3
Total                              4.8    55.2         30.7
of which has been paid             4.8      0.1
Total now held                     0.0    55.1
Total undisbursed                  0.0    30.7         30.7
1/   Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for
the improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of
the Lake port of Bujumbura. The loan which was guaranteed by the
Kingdom of Belgium has been fully repaid.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
- 23 -                        Page 2 of 5
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
There have been no IFC inVestments in Burundi.
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 467-BU      Highway Maintenance Project:  US$5.0 million of
March 27, 1974; Effective Date: August 22, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The Highway Maintenance Project is the first phase of a long-term
program to establish an efficient highway maintenance organization. The
project which has been substantially completed consists of the purchase of
maintenance equipment, spare parts, fuel and construction materials, the
construction of a workshop and consultant services for technical assistance
and training, a study on the development of the road sector and feasibility
studies. The project is cofinanced by the UNDP (US$1.05 million for technical
assistance), Germany (US$1.33 million for the construction of and technical
assistance to the mechanical workshop in Bujumbura) and Belgium (US$400,000
for local cost financing). All equipment has now been procured and mechanical
road maintenance is well under way. Several manual road maintenance crews and
one mechanized maintenance unit have been established resulting in a sub-
stantial improvement in the quality of road maintenance works. However, the
hostilities in Uganda have led to shortages of fuel and cement and have caused
delays in mechanical maintenance operations. The construction of the workshop
in Bujumbura has been completed. Good progress has been made in training
road maintenance personnel.
Credit No. 593-BU      Second Coffee Improvement Project:  US$5.2 million
of December 5, 1975; Effective Date: October 31,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The Project is a continuation of the first Coffee Improvement
Project (US$1.8 million Credit No. 147-BU of April 11, 1969). It is being
-co-financed by the Kuwait Fund (US$1.2 million) on a parallel basis and by
Belgium (about US$600,000). The Kuwait Fund finances the construction of
ten coffee washing stations, and Belgium assists in the carrying out of a
coffee research component. The project is designed to support the develop-
ment of coffee and food production by strengthening and expanding extension
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 24 -                         Page 3 of 5
services and distribution of agricultural inputs; it includes a pilot rural
development program to improve livestock and food crop production. Start up
of the project was slow because of frequent changes in foreign and local
project staff. A new team of foreign experts has been appointed and project
management is now improving. Coffee extension work is showing favorable
results but food crop development is behind schedule because of a lack of
selected seeds and past management problems. Construction of the ten coffee
washing stations is expected to be completed by the end of January 1980.
Credit No. 613-BU      Technical Assistance Project:  US$1.5 million of
March 19, 1976; Effective date: July 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project provides financing for hiring long term advisers
and short-term consultants to assist in planning, collection of statistics
and project preparation. Several long term advisers (including a senior
economic adviser and a senior statistician in the Ministry of Planning, a
savings bank expert and a metallurgist at the Ministry of Mining) are in post.
Several short-term studies and consultant services relating to the preparation
of projects in the agricultural and industrial sectors have been carried
out.
Credit No. 626-BU      Fisheries Development Project; US$6.0 million of
June 11, 1976; Effective Date: February 22, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This project is designed to increase the production of fish through
the provision of training, equipment and materials to fishermen and to improve
the distribution of fish throughout Burundi. The project is also financing
the preparation of an integrated rural development plan for the coastal region
along Lake Tanganyika and the implementation of pilot development activities.
The project is co-financed by a US$1.2 million loan from the Abu Dhabi Fund.
Project execution has been slow because of initial difficulties in recruiting
adequate foreign experts for administration and finance and boat building,
causing delays in the purchase of fisheries equipment and boat construction.
Several newly constructed fishing stations are in operation but insufficient
fish supplies have resulted in low revenues. In addition, in May 1979, the
number of fishermen substantially decreased with the departure of Zairian
fishermen following a repatriation agreement with Zaire of Zairian nationals
in Burundi.
Credit No. 679-BU      Education Project:  US$10.0 million of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This project assists the Government in continuing and consolidating
the reform of primary education. It aims at substantially expanding primary
school enrollments and improving the distribution of educational opportunities.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
It ,r rides technical and material assistance to the Rural Education Bureau
respor:sible for the execution of the reform of primary education as well as
for teacher training. As a result of a shortage of cement and fuel caused by
the hostilities in Uganda during the past year project execution has been
delayed by about a year.  Recently, however, deliveries of cement and fuel
have resumed. The construction of 12 schools, a teacher training center and a
printshop has been completed. An additional eight schools are nearing comple-
tion.
Credit No. 731-BU      Development Bank Project; US$3.4 million of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 27, 1978
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project aims at providing funds for investment in medium size
productive entreprises and technical assistance to the National Economic
Development Bank (BNDE). Project execution is slow as a result of limited
activities of Burundi's industrial sector (only one sub-project, the financing
of the purchase of trucks for a Government/private owned trucking company
"INTRACO" has been approved). The newly established Industrial Development
Unit of BNDE which is to promote and appraise industrial projects has now
been fully staffed.
Credit No. 773-BU      Second Highway Project; US$14.0 million of
March 29, 1978; Effective Date: July 27, 1978
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This project provides for the construction of the Bujumbura-Rugombo
road (65 km), improvement of roads and bridges, technical assistance and
procurement of maintenance equipment. Project implementation has been hampered
by the lack of cement and fuel supplies. Performance of the supervision
consultants for the road construction and consultants for engineering (road
and bridge improvement) is satisfactory. Two mechanized maintenance units
have been set up and have started the road improvement program. Consultants
providing technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works, Equipment and
Housing are in post.
Credit No. 917-BU      Second Technical Assistance Project; US$2.5 million of
June 1, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 27, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project provides for the further strengthening of the Govern-
ment's planning mechanism and its project preparation and implementation
capacity. It includes continuation of the technical assistance to macro
economic planning at the Ministry of Planning, provision of experts to the
planning divisions of the Ministries of Agriculture and Industry and financing
of feasibility studies. Recruitment of experts is underway and terms of
reference for several feasibility studies are being prepared.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credit No. 918-BU      Forestry Project; US$4.3 million and US$1.2
million EEC Special Action Credit of June 1,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
This project assists the Government in initiating the first stage
of a long-term program to develop basic forestry services and plantations
supplying fuel wood, building poles and timber to further the Government's
objectives of increasing forest production and establishing long-term wood
production and marketing policies. The project includes the establish-
ment of rural nurseries in 30 communes, a 2,000 ha eucalyptus plantation
and a 5,000 ha pine plantation, technical assistance (provided by France) and
financing of energy studies. Key staff is in post.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of I
BURUNDI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
Time taken to prepare project:           about one year
Identification:                          IDA with UNESCO/Cooperative Program's
assistance
Preparation by:                          Government with UNESCO's assistance
Preparation Mission:                     February 1979
Appraisal Mission:                       May 1979
Negotiations:                            December 1979
Planned date of effectiveness:           April 1980
Section II: Special Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project
-    Government would transfer responsibilities for operating the Public
Works School from the Ministry of Public Works to the Ministry of
Education before June 30, 1983 (para. 34).
-    Government would take measures before December 31, 1981 to ensure
that (a) students admitted to industrial and commercial training
courses at skilled worker level will be at least 15 years old and
will have completed at least two and three years respectively of
junior general secondary education-; (b) students admitted to middle
level technical training courses will have completed junior general
secondary education; and (c) graduates from technical training
courses will only be admitted to any course at the next higher
level of training to the extent that the number of such graduates
does not exceed 10 percent of the students entering that level
(para. 39).
-    Government would ensure that before September 30, 1980, employers
participate in the organization and operation of technical education
and vocational training institutions (para. 39).






2O~0                                                       20 30                                                      O0                                                         0
BURUNDI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT)                                                        R W  A N  D A
PROJECT COMPONENTS'
A   Now Techmca Second-y Sd hool
fon Pbl c Wonks -nd Cv Enarngo n5
A   New Tecnmca S.conodry SChool                                Proposed Ed-ct-ion Zones 5)                1!
C-nsioco  T,odes                                       M.o  R-od,, Snod                                                            
*   New .  ennchazm     Deprmenont ho E,t,ing                   M. or  Roods Inpooec                                                                - -
n   New S-cro- o Skills ond Bookkeep..g Dept                    Seco.-OCy Roods, Uipo-do                                                                                       (
is E3 s ny Commenc-. Show                               Non ana Cop ts                                                                                                (
3      Prosco- l Copitols 8)                     /                                                                                                              230
* Asnwndisscnn,  memt Cstc) Cop,n.st 1\,8)     /1
-    Iorosroionol EOnmdnries                  /                                               )                 )
. r .~~~~~~~~~ _ -   Prosmoc a  woundornes                                                       Kyna            
tr   \><    _>,                       -  ~~~- Ansond,snenmemrt Romndornes               ,j<Ereo,                                                       rr   t
\~~~~~-                                    Mhf         $/r      g         hYd a f                         'Rueg op.P
(0                                                                          t
3 30 ~~~~toe                                                                                                   .                                                                                                  i 1'<1 . .<Y>fJ)33 
3         ,30        t                                                                                                                                                                                                            30 
3f4                                                                                                                                                               T       I       Z A       N            
f:  ; g;  : 5    ?9  4  >   j        g  K loemba '       9 ^'  "    9\ gutonp              ~            ~~ j                                   320TE5, 5    3 15  o 2
5 ~~~~~~30 .                                                                                                                                                     O.   )riCr9 >   h.. ..orene br @' W
CCV>                                                                  C3,C0                                                                                    CCC Cc cOmm         0 0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 5    1  2
g                                                                                                              0    i   0Q  i   3    ;    *   05 8; A a ( t 7 > - ................................................... rA./. St 1~ p/ S i  I 00   h EI D.
(VASXt;AiX~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1-
22 s f0 0      ' 2. X   E;13 0     g      rE v1> -3F



