Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20391
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CR-20440)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF 8.8 SDR MILLION (US$ 11.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
May 31, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1999)
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (NRs.)
NRs. 69.30 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = NRs. 0.0144
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 -  July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA      -      Canadian International Development Agency
CIMDU   -        Curriculum and Instructional Materials Development Unit
CTEVT    -       Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training
EEP       -      Engineering Education Project
HMGN    -        His Majesty's Government of Nepal
IOE       -      Institute of Engineering
MDU       -      Manpower Development Unit
MIS       -      Management Inforn-ation System
NPC       -      National Planning Commission
PIU       -      Project Implementation Unit
SAR       -      Staff Appraisal Report
SDC       -      Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
TU        -      Tribhuvan University
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Hans M. Rothenbuhler
Sector Manager/Director:    Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Grant Sinclair/Brajesh Panth



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    10
6. Sustainability                                                                        11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       15
9. Partner Comments                                                                      16
10. Additional Information                                                               19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    30
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                                  31
Annex 9. SDC's Comments                                                                  39
Annex 10. CIDA's Comments                                                                41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P010333                                         Project Name: ENGINEERING EDUC.
Team Leader: Brajesh Panth                                  TL Unit: SASED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: June 12, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ENGINEERING EDUC.                                L/C/TF Number: CR-20440
CountryIDepartment: NEPAL                                                  Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: EV - Vocational Education & Training
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/29/86                                  Effective:  11/14/89
Appraisal:  09/06/88                                    MTR:
Approval:  06/22/89                                  Closing:  12/31/97            12/31/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL/INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING; TRIBHUVAN
UNIVERSITY
Other Partners: Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and Swiss Agency for
Development and Cooperation (SDC)
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Mieko Nishimizu                             Attila Karaosmanoglu
Country Manager:      Hans M. Rothenbuhler                        Shinji Asanuma
Sector Manager:       Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                         Martin Karcher
Team Leader at ICR:   Grant Sinclair                              Joseph Bredie
ICR Primary Author:   Brajesh Panth; Madhav Mainali
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Qujality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Nepal experienced a critical shortage of technical manpower in almost all its development
endeavors. During the 1960s and the 1970s, a number of studies/reviews on the status of human
resources in Nepal, including IDA's (McEvers, 1983), highlighted mianpower shortage in a
number of skill areas, including engineering skills. As the development efforts expanded during
the 1970s, the need to modernize engineering education was identified as one of the key priorities
in Nepali education by HMGN. On account of its importance in Nepali development efforts, and
as prioritized by HMGN, IDA provided support for two projects aimed at enabling the Institute of
Engineering (IOE), Tribhuvan University (TU) to expand and modernize engineering education in
Nepal, namely the Institute of Engineering Development Project (Cr. 772-NEP) and the Western
Region Campus Project (Cr. 11 98-NEP). These projects contributed to the expansion and
consolidation of the technician training programs and helped the Institute of Engineering (IOE)
initiate a degree program in civil engineering. Nepal, however, remained completely dependent
on overseas training in electrical, electronics and mechanical engineering.
According to the National Planning Commission (NPC) the shortage of technical and
professional manpower at the start of the Seventh 5-Year Plan (1985) had risen to 30 percent of
available stock. The apparent shortage of engineers and technicians was a reflection of Nepal's
past inability to develop an appropriate stock of technical personnel. The actual proportion of
engineering personnel (0.9%) in the economically active population was smaller than in other
countries in the region (for example, 3.8% in Bangladesh). Nepal's development efforts required
technical personnel in the four basic engineering disciplines -civil, mechanical, electrical,
electronics- and in architecture and rural planning. Given the developments in power and
communications, the demand for electrical and electronics engineering personnel was expected to
rise significantly.
It was against this background that the Engineering Education Project (EEP), the third
IDA-supported project in the series, was formulated. The development objective of EEP was to
increase the production of engineering manpower in order to meet the national demand generated
by the Government's investment in various sectors. The expectation was to meet 90 percent of the
projected demand and to train engineers and technicians specifically ifor Nepal's development
needs. The project assisted in: (a) expanding the enrollment capacity of the IOE to train
technicians and engineers; (b) raising the quality of engineering education; and (c) improving the
management of IOE. It was deemed important to remove the imbalances in the supply of
engineering manpower, reduce the shortages, and meet the demand generated by the
Government's investment in water resources, hydropower, roads, bridges, telecommunications
and industry.
Important lessons concerning deficiencies in project management, maintenance and
implementation learned from previous projects were taken into account in designing the project.
Project objectives were clearly defined and directed towards building capacity for producing
technical manpower in critical areas in Nepal. The objectives were very much in line with social
priorities and long-term educational plans of the government, and also fitted well with IDA's
country assistance strategy for Nepal.
- 2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
No changes were made in the project's development objectives during the implementation period.
3.3 Original Components:
The project components were:
(a)  expanding enrollment in the technician training programns from 1,370 to about
1,700 students and in the engineering (degree) programs from 360 to 920 students
through the introduction of new programs and construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of facilities;
(b)  raising the quality of engineering education through training of staff, introducing
new curricula, improving existing curricula, providing education materials and
equipment, and improving admission and exarnination to international standard; and
(c)  improving management through strengthening the Office of the Dean, developing
a Management Information System (MIS), establishing a Manpower Development
Unit (MDU), training managerial and administrative staff, and establishing
maintenance capacity.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not restructured during project implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory in this ICR. As mentioned under Section 3.1
above, the project was designed to suit the technical manpower development needs of Nepal, and
benefitted from lessons learned in two earlier projects.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project not only achieved all its stated objectives satisfactorily, but also most of its
actual achievements exceeded the targets. Now the IOE has greater autonomy, is self-reliant in
many areas due to increased levels of cost recovery; it has well-trained manpower (administrative
and academic), and has acquired significant experience in project management. Hence, IOE has
been able to develop an efficient system for the delivery of both degree and diploma programs.
Moreover, major policies have been adopted such as cost recovery and development research
capabilities. The project benefited extensively from Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA) technical assistance and Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation (SDC) support.
As the project was able to complete all civil works, procure all equipment and enroll more
students than targeted, the final project perfornance in achieving the capacity expansion
objectives has been rated satisfactory.
Similarly, as the project was able to train more staff than targeted, develop and revise
-3 -



curricula, develop instructional materials, procure books and reference materials, and improve
admission and examination standards, the EEP outcome in achieving the quality improvement
objective is rated satisfactory.
The management improvement objective of the project is also rated satisfactory, in view
of the establishment of (i) a Management and Development Council and an Executive Committee
to foster greater autonomy, (ii) a manpower development unit to provide training to staff and
undertake tracer studies, and (iii) facilities management unit in each campus to institutionalize and
sustain maintenance equipment and buildings.
Some unanticipated conditions (e.g., trade and transit dispute between India and Nepal,
the transition to democratic government, conflict and delays in consultant selection, change in
Government policy, procurement delays, etc.) adversely affected the project during initial
implementation, including weak project management which led to implementation delays during
the first half of the project period. When project implementation picked up towards the second
half of the project as a result of greater focus and stronger leadership, the project exceeded most
of its objectives. Nevertheless, a two-year extension of the project was needed to allow the IOE
to achieve all the project objectives. It is also important to recognize that while it took almost ten
years for the IOE to implement the project fully, the important institutional gains would have been
unachievable in a shorter time span given the need for substantial social, attitudinal and managerial
changes.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Expanding the Capacity of IOE to Train More Technicians and Engineers
(i) Enrollment Capacity. The enrollment targets of the project have been fully achieved
and in many cases exceeded the targets. With regard to degree programs, the EEP Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) projected a target of admitting 240 students as freshmen in five degree
programs (Civil, Mechanical, Electrical, Electronic and Architecture) offered at Pulchowk
(Central) Campus of IOE. By 1999/2000 IOE was able to admit 381 students in six degree
programs (including computer engineering, not envisaged by EEP). This intake level will raise the
total degree level enrollment to 1,572 students in its degree programs (SAR target 920),
exceeding the project target by over 60 percent. This includes those who have enrolled in a
number of full fee-paying programs, with full cost recovery.
Regarding diploma programs, the appraisal target of EEP was to enroll 1,700 students, for
which around 624 freshmen were expected to be admitted in three campuses every year including
margins for dropouts. The three diploma campuses have admitted a total of 768 freshmen in
1999/2000 for technician training programs thereby exceeding the project target by about 23
percent. This includes full fee-paying students whose number is expected to increase to over 30
percent of total enrollment in these campuses. These developments demonstrate first, the
significant achievement made by EEP in expanding the capacity of technician training programs,
and second, reveal the willingness of beneficiaries to pay for their training, which in the context of
Nepal is important to note. However, while enrollment has continued to increase, low intemal
efficiency in diploma programs warrants future targeted intervention.
-4-



As a spin-off of the success of EEP, a number of private engineering colleges affiliated to
TU/IOE have been established. The total enrollment capacity of degree programs of public and
private engineering colleges has exceeded the target EEP enrollment capacity.
The last tracer studies of IOE graduates was conducted in 1993. Therefore there is no
recent emperical evidence that all the IOE graduates are employeed in the country in the relevant
fields. But based on the high demand for IOE seats and anectodal evidence that the country has
been largely able to fulfill its demand for engineering manpower gives a basis to infer that the
development objective of EEP has been largely met.
Since enrollments in degree and diploma programs exceeded the target and additional
post-graduate programs were introduced in four areas, a significantly greater number of teachers
and instructors have been recruited than was originally planned. This resulted in less than
satisfactory faculty rationalization. The degree programs of IOE now have over 220 faculty for
1,104 students with a faculty - student ratio of 1: 5.1 against the SAR target of 1:10. This is
expected to improve to 1:7 once these programs reach full enrollment of 1,572. The faculty-
student ratio at the three diploma campuses is around 1:9, which is below the target of 1: 10
because the TU has reduced the norn for teaching loads. Nevertheless, IOE is using the higher
faculty strength to provide a number of short courses.
(ii) Female Enrollment. EEP projected a target of increasing female enrollment to at
least 10 percent in both degree and technician training programs. Females were about 12.5
percent of enrollments (137 of 1,104) in 1999/00 academic year, which exceeded the target.
There was a significant increase in females enrollments at three of the four campuses under IOE
with Pulchowk (degree) campus admitting 17 percent (59 of 336), Thapathali (diploma) 20
percent (29 of 144), and Paschimanchal (Western) campus 18 percent (70 of 384). All these
campuses provided new girls' hostels with a combined capacity to accommodate 104 female
students. At the only campus, the Purwanchal (Eastern) campus, which lacks girls hostel facility
within its premises, female enrollment was only 6 percent (15 of 240) of the total. This campus
was not included in EEP initially, but was included only later on. The initial delays in
implementation and a subsequent reduction in SDC funding by about US$1.38 million led to a
reduction in the scope of the project, which included dropping the plan for hostel construction in
the Eastern campus.
(iii) New Programs. Exceeding by far the EEP targets, the IOE managed, with
Norwegian assistance, to run post-graduate (Master's Degree) programs in three areas of
specialization - Structural Engineering, Environmental Engineering and Urban Planning. Later a
Master's degree program in Water Resources Engineering was initiated without external support.
The current enrollment capacity in the two-year Master's degree is 128. The IOE plans to offer
several additional programs. The master's degree programs, which are self-sustaining, are demand
driven. Moreover, the IOE now has two research students working toward a Ph.D. These are
impressive achievements arising from enhanced IOE capacity. Under a mutually agreed separation
arrangement, which was reached at a later stage of the project, the diploma programs of
Pulchowk campus were transferred to three diploma campuses. The Pulchowk facilities are now
exclusively used for degree programs allowing room for enrolling additional batches of full
-5 -



fee-paying students, and for introducing post-graduate programs in a number of areas.
(iv) Construction. The construction of new facilities and the renovation of existing ones
in Pulchowk Campus are all completed and are being used. With minor exceptions, the renovation
and construction of facilities at the diploma campuses have also been completed satisfactorily. The
laboratories and workshops, and the classrooms in all diploma campuses are utilized almost to the
level targeted by the SAR (65% and 80%, respectively). The utilization of these facilities at the
degree campus, however, is significantly less than the above targets (39% and 650/0,
respectively). This is largely a result of the transfer of diploma programs from the degree campus,
leaving IOE room to increase enrollment, including additional enrollment of full fee-paying
students and running of short courses.
(v) Equipment. Most equipment for the degree programs was procured before project
extension. Experts from the Consortium of Canadian Universities under CIDA support provided
technical assistance in commissioning laboratory equipment for degree programs. The Consortium
comprised University of Calagary, University of Saskatchewan, University of British Columbia
and University of Manitoba. However, the equipment for the technician training programs was
procured late in the project extension period due to the decision to delay the procurement of
diploma equipment until appropriate arrangements were made for transfer of diploma programs to
CTEVT. The consequences of the delayed procurement and the revision of the equipment lists
are explained later.
B. Raising the Quality of Engineering Education
(i) Staff Development. The training of staff, both of degree and diploma programs, was
carried out successfully. The fellowships were supported by CIDA and SDC. Against the targets
of 173.5 staff-years of fellowships (including 15 Ph.D., 32 M.Sc./ME, 37 staff-years of technician
training, and 21 staff-years of other training) some 193 staff-years of training was completed,
which included 15 senior fellowships, 5 Ph.D., 38 M.Sc./ME fellowships, 67 staff-years of
technician training, 15 administrative staff fellowships, and 90 short-term training. The training
targets were surpassed significantly in terms of persons covered. Over 220 teaching staff and 120
junior/support staff (compared with the proposed target of 94 teaching staff and 25 support staff)
received training. This was possible due to the cost saving efforts of project managers by
organizing training in India instead of expensive overseas institutions. The Technician Teachers'
Training Institute at Bhopal, India which provided short-term (mostly of three-month duration)
training for the diploma staff was substantially economical cost-wise without any compromise to
the quality of training. The Technical Instructors Training Institute, an SDC-supported training
facility at Kathmandu, also provided some short-term training to diploma staff with similar results.
Moreover, the training is looked upon as relevant for the Nepali need. Training for the faculty of
the degree programs started at the early phase of the project and most of them benefited from
overseas training. Unfortunately, a significant percentage of those trained abroad (9 of 23 trained
for M.Sc./M.E.) at a high cost did not return to Nepal. This warrants the serious attention of IOE
management.
(ii) Curriculum Development. Inpressive achievements were made in the areas of
- 6 -



curriculum development. A total of 316 new courses were developed for the degree programs
which greatly benefited from technical assistance provided by experts from the Consortium of
Canadian Universities under CIDA funding. In addition to this, over 100 new courses were
developed for the Master's in Engineering programs. Curriculum for technician programs in civil
engineering and architecture were prepared by the IOE faculty. Curriculum for five courses for
technician training programs were developed by the ILO experts and later revised by the IOE
faculty. The revisions laid emphasis on augmenting the skill component in the curriculum. This
experience of curriculum development and revision will obviously be useful for IOE to accomplish
similar tasks in the future.
The EEP resources were utilized efficiently for the development and distribution of
instructional materials. The Curriculum and Instructional Materials Development Unit (CIMDU)
of IOE is preparing and publishing manuals for courses and laboratory manuals. It has published
a total of 103 courses and laboratory manuals for degree programs and almost a similar quantity
(101) for diploma programs.
(iii) Books and Reference Materials. EEP funds were used to purchase a total of 37,828
volumes of books, exceeding the target (23,300) substantially. IOE was much less successful in
acquiring joumals. The libraries of all campuses now are in a better position to provide books,
both text and reference, to students and teachers. Some relevant journals and reference materials
are also available at the Pulchowk campus library for post-graduate courses and research. Given
that significant funds were underutilized under this category and not enough journals could be
procured, IOE engaged in installing a dedicated Intemet system to allow its faculty and students
access to intemational resources. Being a technical institute of Tribhuvan University, IOE is also
making preparations to provide Internet access to the larger university faculty.
(iv) Admission Standard and Quality of IOE Education. The quality of students
entering the degree and technician programs was already quite good before the project due to a
fair and effective student admission system. This quality was further enhanced through the
implementation of single entrance system. Technicians and Proficiency Certificate holders in
science are eligible for entry into degree programs by sitting in the same examination under the
single entrance system. Due to high demand, there is keen competition to get admitted to IOE.
Of the total applicants for degree programs, only the best 18 percent were admitted in 1999.
Before the introduction of the full fee-paying scheme in 1997, the competition for entry into the
IOE was greater. The smaller number of applicants competing for entry into the IOE after the
introduction of the full fee-paying scheme is associated with the increased capacity of IOE owing
to higher utilization of resources. At the same time, the pool of applicants from the proficiency
level in science/diploma in engineering did not increase. Although the minimum entry
requirements for full fee students are the same as that for regular students, the introduction of full
fee-paying students have somewhat lowered the quality of students admitted into the degree
programs owing to the following factors: (i) slackening of competition due to the increased
number of places at the degree level; and (ii) limited competition for full fee-paying seats.
Therefore, it is highly desirable to supplement the full fee-paying scheme by a financial assistance
scheme for financially weak students.
-7 -



Among the total applicants for diploma programs, only the top 17 percent of the
applicants were admitted in 1999. Although students are admitted after a rigorous selection
process, a majority of them fail in the first year examinations. This results in serious
demoralization of students and leads to campus disturbances. However, diploma students with
good academic standing have been fairly successful in joining the degree programs in spite of the
introduction of a single entrance system.
The IOE degree graduates are competing intemationally for admissions into good
institutions and are admitted for further studies to well-known institutions abroad and have
performed well. The Asian Institute of Technology has ranked IOE/TU as one of the ten best
institutions based on the performance of students admitted from different academic institutions.
(v) Complementary Strength. With the capacity and facilities developed, the IOE has
initiated research programs, consultancy services and continuing education programs. For
promotion of research and other services, autonomous organizations such as the Center for
Applied Research and Development, the Center for Energy Studies and the Center for
Information Technology have been established. Continuing education programs are being
successfully conducted through the Continuing Education Division. The Institute of Engineering
Consultancy Services, Departmental Research Consultancy and Training Units, Campus Level
Training and Consultancy Units provide consultancy and training services. Through these
activities the IOE provides a variety of specialist services to the country and has markedly
improved the image of IOE. These are achievements beyond the expectations of the project.
C. Improving Management Capacity
(i) Strengthening the Office of the Dean. The management improvement objectives of
the project have been largely achieved, although some targets require additional efforts to fully
realize. The IOE became successful in assuring the participation of stakeholders in its
management through the formation of an ad hoc Advisory Council. The success of this
experiment laid the foundation for adoption of Decentralization Rules 1998, which paved the way
for more decentralized management of Tribhuvan University. The IOE was the first institute to
implement TU Decentralization Rules in 1998. The implementation of these rules have further
strengthened the IOE's stakeholder participation in management. The Decentralization Rules
have transferred some of the important central authorities (managerial and financial) from the TU
central office to IOE. The provision in the rules for transferning activities from central office/IOE
to campuses remains yet to be implemented.
(ii) Complementary Institutional Development Efforts. The Manpower Development
Unit (MDU) has been established. It has been delivering short-term training and has organized
consultative seminars and training workshops for IOE staff. MDU is expected to conduct tracer
studies periodically which are now critical to trace the employment status of IOE graduates. The
Management Information System of IOE has become operational only recently on the Pulchowk
campus and needs to be extended to diploma programs using the equipment provided by the
project for this purpose. Facilities Management Units have been established in all campuses but
they require sustained support for a few more years to fully institutionalize them. The IOE has
- 8 -



also established an Industrial Advisory Board and has formed Industrial Linkage Units in each
campus. These important entities are not yet effective to the level expected, in spite of the
importance of their function to make engineering training relevant and successful.
The Unanticipated Project Results
The achievements of the project that have exceeded the projected targets are summed up below:
* Exceeding the SAR target, IOE built the capacity to admit 60% and 23% more students in
degree and diploma programs, respectively.
* Beyond the target of the project, IOE now runs degree program in computer engineering, has
introduced Post-Graduate programs in four areas of specialization and initiated a Ph.D.
program.
* IOE has generated revenue from sources such as student fees, research and consultancy
services, which amounts to the equivalent of 50% of recurrent expenditure.
* IOE has developed formal linkages with well-known institutions in India, Canada, Norway,
USA, Japan, Thailand and Indonesia for research and exchange.
*  IOE has initiated a 20-year strategic planning exercise to develop a long-term vision for the
Institute to develop into a premier institution and a partner in national development with focus
on sustainability, research and academic excellence.
_ IOE was able to install a dedicated Internet system, thereby giving its faculty and students
instant access to international resources.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n.a.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
n.a.
4 5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact has been rated as substantial. The initial delays in
project implementation had to do with several factors, some of which were beyond the control of
IOE. Although IOE senior management came with experience from two earlier IDA-supported
projects and provided stability, project management suffered from turnover of key staff
(coordinators and several deputy coordinators) and inadequate staffing. This was largely true
during the first half of the project. It was also felt that degree programs received more attention
than diploma programs.
The situation turned around during the second half of the project leading to several
improvements. Disbursement increased from less than 10 percent in 1995 to over 50 percent in
two years. IOE management made efforts to have very modest teaching loads of key PIU staff,
put in more staff to look after critical areas that were lagging behind, improved project monitoring
using benchmarks and implementation schedules, and adopted a more strategic approach to
address implementation bottlenecks.
With greater autonomy from TU achieved, the IOE management established an Executive
- 9-



Committee and Management and Development Council to improve internal management and
decision making structure. This helped to decentralize management functions to the department
level. This was further reinforced by successful cost recovery which led to wider support of
faculty members and department heads who saw potential for increased remuneration and
increased access to resources. IOE has made provision for institutional improvements and
resources to ensure regular repair and maintenance physical facilities, established manpower
development unit for staff development and conducting tracer studies, and identified industrial
liaison officers in each campus for industrial linkages to increase exposure of students to industry.
In order to sustain these gains, there is an urgent need to promote strategies to raise staff morale
and motivation, retain good staff and strengthen the recruitment process to ensure intake of highly
qualified and competent staff.
TU has identified IOE as one of the institutes to receive block grants from FY2000/01 to
allow further autonomy to IOE.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
EEP implementation began in a period when India and Nepal were having problems on
trade and transit issues which lingered for about a year. Furtherrnore, there was a major political
change in 1990 which ushered in a democratic system with an interim Government in place. This
was followed by a very important general elections in 1991 and the formation of a new
Government which began to formulate new policies and directions for development. These were
major changes that affected all aspects of life in Nepal and made worse by a period of intense
student activism and resistance.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Following the political changes in 1990, the Government established an Education
Comrnission to advise on educational reforms. The Commission's recommendations led the
Government to make a policy decision to transfer diploma programs of IOE to the Council for
Technical Education and Vocational Training (CTEVT) without carefully analyzing institutional
implications. The decision did not materialize for over three years due to a lack of preparedness
of CTEVT to bring IOE diploma programs under its umbrella. After this prolonged dilemma did
not produce any positive outcome, the Government agreed to continue with the original project
design and allowed diploma campuses to remain under IOE. In the process, valuable time was
lost and project implementation of the diploma component suffered from delays in civil works and
equipment procurement, staff recruitment and deployment, etc.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
While the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) experienced a shortage of staff during the
early years of project implementation, it witnessed turnover of key staff throughout the project
period. In the absence of serious efforts to resolve conflicts, a prolonged disagreement between
IOE and IDA over the selection of design consultant for civil works caused initial implementation
delays by about two years.
The process of equipment selection and procurement consumed much more time than
originally planned and, as a result, the project paid a higher cost, particularly for the diploma
- 10 -



equipment. For the degree programs, the initial list prepared by Canadian experts was revised and
finalized by IOE faculty, many of whom were insufficiently familiar with the laboratory programs
to carry out the task promptly. The procurement of diploma equipment was seriously delayed due
to uncertainities about the ownership of diploma programs. The cost escalation due to such delays
led to some reduction in the scope of diploma equipment. Diploma equipment lists prepared by
IOE staff and reviewed by a Swiss consultant very late into the project were approved by head of
departments with inputs from concerned faculty members of different campuses. Given
insufficient familiarity of IOE staff with preparing equipment specification and ICB procurement
documents, the project contracted out the task to a foreign specialist firm. However, this
arrangement ended up consuming more time than expected for coordination and approvals.
Substantial time might have been saved if IOE staff and/or national consultants had been able to
perform the job; this would have possibly helped IOE to develop procurement expertise within its
own system. When given an opportunity to expedite diploma equipment procurement, the PIU did
successfully manage the ICB procurement of one of the diploma packages demonstrating its
capability and potential.
During the last four years of the project, the IOE made a series of positive decisions,
which strengthened the PIU by providing adequate staff and injected commitment and motivation
for speedy project implementation. Delegating the Bank's project management responsibilities to
the Nepal Country Office also helped to expedite project activities through closer Bank/client
contacts.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project was supported by three funding agencies - the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) with US$3.95 million, the Swiss Agency for Development and
Cooperation (SDC) with US$7.15 million (scaled down from the original amount of US$8.53
million), IDA with US$11.4 million and HMGN with US$2.11 million. The CIDA-flmded portion
of the project was successfully completed in March 1997 and covered technical assistance and
fellowships. The SDC portion of the fund was administered by IDA for a share of the costs of
civil works, fellowhips, equipment and technical assistance. Due to project delays and constraints
in SDC fimding, the SDC portion of the financing had to be scaled down by about US$1.38
million (about 16 percent of SDC funding). Reallocation of credit proceeds was required to
increase funding for equipment. In the light of substantial improvements in project
implementation at a later stage of the project and to support the diploma component that was
lagging behind, the project was provided two extensions of one year each based on the borrower's
demonstrated commitrnent to project objectives.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability has been rated likely. The IOE has reached a stage where it
enjoys a national status as a premium engineering institution. Its status and strength in (i)
establishing a credible admission and examination process, (ii) retaining qualified faculty members,
and (iii) possessing high quality physical facilities and well-equipped laboratories, which are
superior to those owned by other institutions at the national level and in many cases at the
regional level, contribute to the sustainability of IOE programs. Furthermore, a range of
- 11 -



post-graduate programs and the beginning of a doctoral program in lOE help to reinforce its
programs, and its expanding international linkages bring additional advantages.
A remarkable achievement of IOE has been in the generation of significant internal
resources in a difficult environment and in a rather short period. Through sustained efforts and
patient negotiations, the active IOE leadership persuaded students to accept an increase in fees for
regular students by a modest percentage (15% per year) with an understanding to continue this
practice for several years. It has also introduced a number of full fee-paying programs, which
recover full recurrent costs of training. By offering continuing education programs, consultancy
services, and leasing campus facilities, IOE generates revenue of equivalent to 50 percent of
recurrent expenditure, which in 1995 was less than 5 percent. This proportion is expected to rise
further. This helps to insure the sustainability of IOE programs at a time when public resources to
tertiary education are constrained and there is a critical need to reorient subsidies that currently
benefit the better off students. This is supported by IOE's own study on student affordability.
However, despite impressive achievements in revenue generation, a major lacuna in IOE is
continuing low faculty morale and motivation and serious difficulties in recruiting and retaining
high quality professionals due to its inability to establish an attractive incentive structure. Most of
the existing faculty members devote only a small percentage of their time to campus related
activities. With some exceptions, all hold another job to augment their income. They seem to be
less motivated to find adequate time to help students. These indeed are crucial issues warranting
urgent treatment to sustain the gains made thus far. It is equally important to do away with the
negative effects of the politicized atmosphere particularly in diploma campuses and students'
tendency to rely on strikes for unfair demands. These could undermine positive initiatives and the
large investments made to improve the quality of teaching and learning.
Facilities management units were established on all four campuses. Most of the
maintenance works through these units during the project period were funded from the project
and special Government grant tied to the project. In the context of low priority being accorded to
maintenance in Nepal, it would be crucial to supplement the TU regular allocations for
maintenance with the revenues from internal resources. The policy of IOE to allocate 40% of the
revenues from full-fee programs for equipment maintenance and upgrading is likely to enable IOE
to reasonably maintain its physical facilities. It is to be noted that the annual cost of maintenance
of IOE facilities are estimated at Rs. 10 millions whereas the annual revenues from intemal
resources exceeds Rs. 30 millions.
Compared to the diploma programs, the prospects for sustainability of degree programs
are strong so far. In spite of the IOE's official position of supporting and strengthening the
diploma programs within the IOE umbrella, an argument still exists that delivering technician
training should not be the responsibility of the university. If this sentiment prevails and gathers
momentum, diploma programs may be gradually replaced by new degree programs.
Although there is increasing recognition that most of the training delivered by IOE should
remain relevant to the production process carried out in the industries and businesses, IOE has not
yet been able to develop many functional linkages with industries.
- 12-



Judging from the success of IOE in mobilizing intemal resources its financial sustainability
has been fully assured in the short-term. The long-term financial sustainability of IOE, however,
will be contingent upon its capability to continue to attract full fee students by maintaining the
quality of its programs at a level higher than those of competing private institutions. In order to
maintain the quality of its programs, IOE will have to develop means for addressing the issue of
low faculty morale and commitment. This will entail serious reforms in the way the IOE is being
managed. The huge internal resources presently at the disposal of IOE need to be mobilized for
success of such reforms.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
IOE is part of a huge university system (TU) which provides enrollment to about 97
percent of all students enrolled in tertiary education in Nepal. In a highly centralized university
system, it is difficult to bring about management and financial reforms in only one institute when it
is also part of the same system. However, the progress of IOE demonstrates that it is possible to
trigger far reaching reforms when there is good leadership and willingness to initiate reforms. As
a result of these reforms, the IOE should be able to become a sustainable system for the following
reasons:
*  First, the IOE was able to increase substantial cost recovery through sustained efforts and
patient negotiations with students and with support from politicians and university
officials. Increased resources (from less than five percent of recurrent expenditure to
about 50 percent) now allow IOE to increase remuneration of faculty members, improve
repair and maintenance, and improve expenditure on instructional materials and
consumables.
-   Second, the IOE has been the first institution within the TU system to receive much
greater autonomy. This came at a time when it was able to improve cost recovery
resulting in wider support from the faculty members and department heads whose
remuneration are likely to improve and who now have greater access to resources. TU is
now making necessary arrangements to provide block grant financing to IOE (among
other institutions and campuses) to provide further autonomy.
*  Third, the IOE has been able to establish some important institutional arrangements
(manpower development unit, facilities management unit, industrial liaison officers, etc.)
to strengthen its management capacity.
*  Finally, the IOE also has developed a 20-year strategic plan with priorities and strategies
to develop into a sustainable and strong teaching and research institution.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
Although the Bank was generally effective in project preparation, the Banks assessment of
the level of preparedness of the project prior to Negotiations was overly optimistic, and as a result
project start-up was much slower than anticipated. However, when IOE was able to substantially
- 13-



improve project implementation towards the second half, it took only a short time to realize that
some of the early delays were largely an outcome of external and internal contingencies, which
were difficult to anticipate and assess prior to its occurrence.
7.2 Supervision:
During the early period of sluggish project implementation, technical support from the
Bank became somehow minimal. Had the Bank been able to provide targeted support in conflict
resolution and procurement during the early stages, the disagreement over the issue of selecting
the design consultant could have been resolved with less delays. The Bank personnel responsible
for supervision changed in short intervals, which also may have had some effect on the project.
The then centralized decision-making of IDA in project management (first half of the
project) led to a longer processing time for procurement and disbursement-related issues thereby
contributing to implementation delays. Subsequent decentralized decision-making policies
adopted by the Bank midway through the project greatly helped to accelerate implementation in
later years.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance.
The earlier delays were a combination of several factors. Project implementation began to
pick up well midway into the project. The Bank was able to maintain a very good relationship
with the Borrower and donors (co-financiers), which helped to expedite project implementation in
different formns. Since the Bank made it a point to carry out supervision every six months and the
project provided comprehensive reporting, including progress on benchmarks during each
mission, it was possible to identify all bottlenecks on tine and was possible to resolve any
outstanding issues jointly. This helped to expedite implementation significantly. Finally, the
Bank's decision to grant two extensions of one year each came at a most crucial time without
which the project would probably have been declared unsuccessful.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation was lengthy but the IOE presented its Ten-Year Development Plan.
Negotiations had to be carried out to arrive at a cost-effective design that would meet
Government needs. The IOE, with help from CIDA, developed an economical alternative with
focus on more efficient use and expansion of existing capacity. This was followed by preparation
of a feasibility study which was also scaled down to arrive at a more affordable and economical
design. Thus, through several iterations, the borrower was able to negotiate a good design.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government was generally very supportive of the project. Midway into the project,
the Ministry of Finance increased its budgetary allocation to IOE maintenance from around NRs.
150,000 annually to around NRs. 1.5 mnillion. The MOF was also instrumental in resolving
problems relating to funds flow and currency adjustments pertaining to payments. But the
Government policy regarding the transfer of diploma programs midway through the project and
the delay in articulating the policy, created considerable uncertainty for a long period of time
(around three years) and led to considerable delays in the implementation of diploma component.
- 14 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
The integration of the PIU with the IOE had many benefits in terms of ensuring linkages
between project activities and inputs and the IOE's operations. But this relationship also had
disadvantages in that initially there was difficulty in attracting and retaining good staff to the PIU
from the IOE. Most PIU staff were not full time (as most retained some teaching responsibilities),
and this prevented the PIU from considering more effective implementation strategies that were
inconsistent or considered inappropriate by the IOE. Project monitoring remained less than
satisfactory throughout the project. However, as it became clear that the project was in serious
danger of not being completed, changes in PIU staffing and strong leadership resulted in
considerable improvement in project management and speed of implementatiorL
The overall financial management of the project was not entirely satisfactory. The project
had a very weak monitoring system with respect to financial transactions. Due to inadequate
contract monitoring, payments to the parties were often delayed. Accounts team often were
unable to submit withdrawal applications in a timely manner due to delayed submission of
supporting documents by the technical team to the accounts unit. The accounts unit was also not
proactive to alert the management about the need to improve the financial management. During
the last year of the project, IDA supervision missions helped improve the accounting system. The
project recruited a qualified accounting consultant to project's accounting system. On average,
audit reports were submitted 10 to 12 months' after the end of the fiscal year. The audit report
for FY1998/99 has not yet been received.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The project benefited from continuity in the IOE senior management in terms of their
familiarity and support for the project design and objectives. Though there were five different
Deans of the IOE from project preparation through completion, all of them had been directly
involved in the early planning stages of the project and all maintained strong commitment and
support for the project objectives and activities. Despite serious implementation delays during the
first half of the project, some of which were beyond the control of the borrower, the borrower
was not only able to improve implementation significantly but exceeded achievements in some
areas. In the final analysis, the borrower demonstrated satisfactory performance in bringing this
project to a successful closure.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1   The EEP benefited from proper coordination among the co-financiers. The IDA Credit
combined with CIDA and SDC grants furnished a greater probability of achieving targets of the
project due to the availability of wider support, financial flexibility and extemal technical
assistance. This reinforces the need for combining credit with grant assistance, and demonstrates
the value of good donor coordination.
8.2   The decision to alter the project design, consistent with the recommendations of the
National Education Commission 2049 (1991), without an in-depth analysis of the implications
after three years into implementation caused serious delays in project implementation. It was,
therefore, critical to carry out in-depth institutional analyses before making what was a major
policy shift in the middle of a project.
- 15-



8.3    Stability in the leadership of the recipient organization and in the staffing of the PIU had
crucial implications on project implementation. The project was delayed partly due to untimely
changes in key project staff. The EEP implementation also suffered due to an insufficient attempt
to improve and coordinate procurement and particularly financial management. Although there
were improvements in later years, much valuable time was lost and the project would not have
been able to accomplish all its objectives without a two year extension. To improve the financial
and procurement management of future projects it is suggested that systematic training is
provided to all relevant staff of projects, and an effective coordination mechanism be established
between technical and finance teams to ensure good monitoring of accounting transactions.
Significant delays were experienced in the flow of funds from the Government to the
University and from the University to IOE. In order to avoid these delays, the Ministry of Finance
should directly allocate the budget to the Project as it does with other projects. This will reduce
one layer of bureaucracy and will have a positive impact on timely consolidation and
reconciliation of accounts, and timely completion of audit reports.
8.4    The supervision skills in procurement and conflict resolution specified at the project design
stage were inadequate, requiring additional expertise and resources. Without such targeted
inputs, implementation delays could have persisted even longer.
8.5    With the decentralized supervision policy adopted by IDA, expeditious support in
procurement and disbursement, and rigorous technical support to expedite implementation
became possible. Such support is critical for a project like EEP, which required deeper
understanding of the political economy of implementation.
8.6    Substantial cost recovery amidst a difficult environment demonstrates that such reform is
possible when there is strong leadership, willingness to engage in serious negotiations with key
stakeholders (in this case mostly students and politicians) and good support from the Government
and TU management. This experience could greatly benefit other institutes and faculties of TU in
terms of reorienting subsidies, mobilizing more resources and improving organization and
management critical for improving the quality of education.
8.7    The achievements of EEP have been possible due to sustained borrower and donor efforts
over a long period. This indicates that building an institution of a large magnitude, often under
difficult circumstances, consumes time and requires a long-term perspective and involvement. It
took over two decades, and a continuous investment of efforts and resources under three IDA
projects to evolve IOE to a stage where it stands now giving much greater confidence that
achievement made thus far is likely to be sustained.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower, after reviewing the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), had minor comments. These
conmments were incorporated in this ICR and the full text of those comments are included as part of the
Borrower's ICR, which is presented in Annex 8.
- 16-



(b) Cofinanciers:
SDC's comments:
These refer to the last 4 years of collaboration (1996-1999).
SDC agrees with the performnance rating of the project. In general, the results of the project
are promising, demonstrating that they can lead to a sustainable insitution with the
understanding that:
* there is stability in the leadership;
* the promised block grants are transfered to IOE;
* the financial management improves; and
* the motivation, the commitment and the accountability of the faculty members are
raised.
Until there is full conmmitment by teachers, instructors and faculty members, it will be difficult
to make the IOE a sustainable institution. Despite these promising results, it has to be
underlined that the (high) satisfactory performance is mainly due to the two-year extension of
the project. Two issues regarding sustainability are always critical: (i) maintenance that has
been carried out with project funds; and (ii) establishment of functional linkages with industry.
Collaboration WB-SDC
SDC has appreciated the good working relationship with the WB Task Manager and the
members of the different review missions. SDC was always informed and included in the
missions taking place. Informal discussions with the WB Task Manager took place when
needed. Nevertheless, the influence of SDC in the steering of the project was rather small,
even though people with the required qualification were available in SDC's Coordination
Office.
* A bilateral donor in a co-financed project has little influence for steering the project.
Swiss Funds flow
The procedures regarding the Swiss funds flow were rather complicated (Project
Implementation Unit PIU - World Bank Nepal - World Bank Washington - PIU). Changes
made in Washington were not always shared with the PIU, especially when the amount
reimbursed was less than asked; clear indications and justifications were often missing. The
PIU then came to SDC asking for explanations.
* Improve and strengthen the information flow from WB-HQ back to the project.
- 17 -



Reduction of SDC's commitment
SDC's portion of the financing had to be scaled down when an extension of two years was
agreed. The extension became necessary due to the unsatisfactory progress of the project
during the early years of implementation. SDC was facing severe budget constraints due to
the difficult situation of the Swiss federal budget and therefore had to adjust its financial
planning. As no funds were planned for 1998/99 for this project, it was not possible for SDC
to support the new request in a better way.
* Be more realistic regarding the time frame while planning such huge projects. There will
always be factors either outside or subject to the control of the government and
implementing agency - that will affect the implementation and control of a project.
Transfer Diploma Programme
SDC played a role in the anticipated transfer of the diploma courses to CTEVT. At that time,
CTEVT was a very young institution that was not able to fulfil all the expectations and tasks
demanded of it. Knowing CTEVT and its organisational and managerial qualities, it was
certainly the wrong moment to push the Government for such a policy decision without
carrying out an independent analysis of the implications. We (SDC) are still convinced that the
university should not deliver technician level training. And if it is likely that degree
programmes may squeeze the diploma programmes, the issue has to be re-discussed.
*  Once the objectives are set for a phase, the parties should stick to them before entering
into discussions regarding institutional changes.
_ Avoid losing valuable time and delaying the implementation process.
The full text of SDC's comments is presented in Annex 9.
CIDA 's Comments:
Delays in project implementation in Nepal, usually caused by political developments and by
administrative problems internal to IOE and Tribhuvan University prevented certain assistance
to be completed as originally planned. Project implementation plans were reviewed and
revised in consultation with the parties concerned on a regular basis. New initiatives were
introduced where needed. Thus three special training programs were implemented and two
workshops were conducted that were not included in the original Project Management Plan.
All five degree programs are now in operation at IOE's Pulchowk campus.
Cooperation and active support from IOE, the Consortium, World Bank and SDC have
enabled the CIDA funded NEEP to meet its principal objectives.
The full text of CIDA's comments is presented in Annex 10.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 18 -



10. Additional Information
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
1. Enhanced capacity to substantially meet  Yes                             1. Actual achievement:
the demands for technicians and engineers                                      * from 1370 to 1968 (will reach 2304
in Nepal:                                                                   when full enrollment in two years) students
* to increase enrollment of technicians                                 enrolled in diploma programs
(enroll from 1370 to 1700                                                     * from 360 to 1109 (will reach 1632 when
* to increase enrollment of engineering                                 full enrollment in three years) students
students from 320 to 920                                                    enrolled in degree programs
 to enroll 10% female students                                            ^ 12.5% female students enrolled
* to introduce four new degree programs                                    * five new degree, four new Masters and
in engineering                                                              Ph.D. programs started
* of the total enrollment, 345 are full fee-
paying students.
2. Sustainabtility of facilites and their optimal SAR projection            2. Actual achievement:
use:                                                                          * facilities maintenance units established
* establish facilities maintenance units                                 in all campuses
lab utilizabon in degree programs to                                       * lab utilization in degree around 40% and
65% and in diploma programs to 80%                                          in diploma program to 64%
* classroom utilization in degree programs                                  * classroom utilization in degree programs
to 80% and in diploma to 80%                                               to 61 % and in diploma to 79%
* faculty - student ratio increased to 1:10                                 * faculty - student ratio stands at 1:5.1 in
from 1:5.6 with teaching loads of 14                                        degree programs but expected to reach 1:7
hrs/week for lecturers and above and 18                                     once full enrollment is reached and 1:9 in
hrs/week for instructors                                                    diploma programs. The average teaching
load has been brought down to 12 hrs/week
for all faculty members as applied across the
university system.
. going beyond, cost recovery level
increased to 50 percent of recurrent
expenditure from less than 5 percent,
dedicated funding to maintenance
established, more funds allocated to
maintenance from HMGN, utilization of
inputs and facilities improved.
3. Improved quality of technician and  SAR projection                       3. Actual achievement:
engineering programs:
* introduce single entrance test                                            * single entrance test introduced which
improve and strengthen examination                                      has raised admission standard: about 18%
provide staff training                                                  applicants are admitted to degree and 17%
develop new curricula for new degree                                    applicants to diploma programs
programs and revise diploma curricula                                         * physical capacity enhanced and result
* enhance physical leaming environment                                   announced within fixed schedule
by providing and equipping new classrooms,                                    * 97 teaching staff and 7 adminsitrative
laboratories, libraries and resource center                                 staff trained under CIDA fellowship, 222
teaching staff and 19 adminstrative staff
trained under SDC fellowship
* all diploma curricula revised, new
curricula for five new degree programs
developed and implemented; curriculum for
civil engineering revised
* all laboratory equipment for degree and
diploma programs procured; textbooks and
reference materials procured; 205 course
and lab manuals developed; computers and
instructional equipment procured
M IOEITU is ranked as one of the top
universities of the region by AIT, Bangkok
- 20 -



4. Increased institutional capacity and  Yes                                  4. * Executive Committee and Management
improved management with improved and                                         and Development Council formed, and
more efficient decision making/planning at                                    by-laws prepared to strengthen management
IOE:                                                                          capacity as part of greater autonomy
* appoint three associate deans for                                         provided to IOE by TU central management
degree, diploma and administration                                               * two assistant deans appointed for
t establish manpower development unit                                       diploma and academic administration
* establish MIS                                                               * Manpower Development Unit
established and staff training initiated
* MIS established and dedicated intemet
access established
* Industrial Cooperation Board formed
* institutional linkages with various
intemational institutions established.
This project was retrofitted around 1996/97 with outcome indicators using logframe.
Output Indicators:
Inidbato - .            -           .Pjh  Pl_d*nWiPSR               ~mI*t......... -.- -t-Esb*
Construct classrooms, resource centers,    SAR projection                     Over 80% construction completed due to
labs, hostels for degree and diploma                                          adjustments made during early part of the
programs and renovate facilities                                              project due to diploma transfer from
Pulchowk campus and renovation ahieved
beyond the target.
Procure equipment worth US$7.0 million  Yes                                   Equipment worth over US$1 1.0 million
procured.
Provide 173.5 staff-years of fellowship  Yes                                  193 staff-years of fellowship provided and
many more staff received training.
About 12,000 books procured for degree and Yes                                About 24,728 books procured for degree and
11,300 for diploma programs                                                   13,100 books for diploma programs.
End of project
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Coponent(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual (US$M)
Components              Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign   Total
A. FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT
1. Degree, Pulchowk                     3.1     5.4      8.4       4.1      7.1    11.2
2. Certificate, Pulchowk                0.4      1.0     1.4        0.5      1.3     1.8
3. Certificate, Thapathali              0.7      1.3     2.0        0.9      1.7     2.6
4. Certificate, Pokhara                 0.9      1.1     2.0        1.2      1.4     2.6
Sub-total            5.1     8.7    13.8         6.7    11.6    18.3
B. STAFF AND CURRICULUM
DEVELOPMENT
1. Degree, Pulchowk                     0.5     4.1      4.5        0.6     5.0      5.5
2. Certificate, Pulchowk                0.4     0.9      1.3        0.5      1.1     1.6
3. Certificate, Thapathali              0.1     0.2      0.4        0.1     0.3      0.4
4. Certificate, Pokhara                 0.3     0.4      0.7        0.4     0.5      0.9
Sub-total            1.2     5.6      6.9        1.5     6.9      8.5
C. MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
1. Degree, Pulchowk                    0.4      0.4      0.8       0.2      0.3      0.5
2 Certificate, Thapathali               0.0     0.0      0.1        0.0      0.0     0.0
3. Certificate, Pokhara                 0.0     0.1      0.1        0.0     0.0      0.0
Sub-total            0.4     0.5      0.9        0.2     0.3      0.5
Baseline cost                       6.7    14.8    21.5         8.5    18.8    27.3
Contingencies:
Physical                               0.6      1.2     1.8         -       -        -
Price increase                         0.9      1.7     2.7         -       -        -
Sub-total            1.5     3.0      4.5        0.0     0.0      0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     8.2    17.8    26.0         8,5    18.8    27.3
Source: Engineering Education Project, Staff Appraisal Report (May 26, 1989);
Institute of Engineering (IOE).
Difference between actual and SAR estimate partly due to currency fluctuations.
Note: Differences between SAR estimates and actual due in large measure to currency fluctuations over time
(SDR vis-a-vis the US dollar and the Nepali Rupee).
- 22 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         4.21           2.80          0.00           0.00           7.01
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                         8.70           1.63          0.00           0.00           10.33
(8.70)         (1.35)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (10.05)
3. Services                      0.00           0.35          4.24           0.00           4.59
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.03)         (0.00)         (1.03)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           3.31          0.00           3.31
(Fellowship)                 (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (20.00            (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00            0.00          0.00           0.74           0.74
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.32)         (0.32)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
_(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                        12.91           4.78          7.55           0.74           25.98
(8.70)         (1.35)        (1.03)         (0.32)         (11.40)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         3.25           2.33          0.05           0.00            5.63
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                        10.88           2.01          0.00           0.00           12.89
(9.94)         (1.43)        (0.00)          0.00          (11.37)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           1.81          0.00            1.81
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.1 1)        (0.00)         (0.1 1
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           5.76          0.00            5.76
(Fellowship)                 (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)                         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00          0.00           1.22            1.22
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.42)         (0.42)
Total                        14.13           4.34          7.62           1.22           27.31
(9.94)         (1.43)        (0.11)         (0.42)         (11.90)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
- 23-



Project Financing (US$ million)
Appraisal estimate                 Actual /a
Local   Foreign                 Local   Foreign
Source                   Costs    Costs    Total          Costs    Costs    Total
IDA
Furniture                                    0.6      0.4       1.0          0.2       0.0       0.2
Local Training                               0.8        -       0.8          0.0        -        0.0
Equipment                                    0.8      6.8       7.6          1.1       9.5      10.6
Books                                        0.1      1.3       1.4          0.1       0.4       0.5
Technical Assistance
Local Specialists                          0.2        -       0.2           0.1        -       0.1
Sub-total                0.2       0.0      0.2           0.1      0.0        0.1
Consumable Materials                         0.1      0.0       0.1          0.1       0.0       0.1
Incremental Expenditure                      0.3        -       0.3          0.4        -        0.4
Subtotal IDA                              2.9       8.5     11.4           2.0      9.9       11.9
SDC
Civil works                                  3.4      2.2       5.6          2.3       1.9       4.2
Professional Fees                            0.5        -       0.5          0.1       0.2       0.2
International Fellowships                     -       0.2       0.2            -       0.0       0.0
Regional Fellowships                          -       1.1       1.1            -       2.5       2.5
Foreign Specialists                           -       1.1       1.1                    0.3       0.3
Equipment                                    0.0      0.0       0.0          0.1       0.9       1.1
Subtotal SDC                              3.9       4.7      8.5           2.5      5.9        8.3
CIDA (excl. overhead and admin costs)
International Fellowships                     -       2.0       2.0            -       3.2       3.2
Foreign Specialists                           -       2.0       2.0            -       1.4       1.4
Subtotal CIDA                             0.0       4.0      4.0     _    0.0       4.6        4.6
HMG Nepal
Civil Works                                  0.8      0.5       1.3          1.2       0.0       1.2
Furniture                                    0.0      0.0       0.1          0.1       0.0       0.1
Equipment                                    0.0      0.2       0.2          0.3       0.0       0.3
Consumable materials                         0.1      0.0       0.1          0.0       0.0       0.0
Incremental Expenditure                      0.4        -       0.4          0.8       0.0       0.8
Subtotal HMGN                              1.3      0.7      2.1           2.5      0.0        2.5
Total project financing                    8.1     17.8     26.0           6.9     20.4       27.3
Source: Engineering Education Project, Staff Appraisal Report (May 26, 1989); IOE.
Notes: (a) Average Exchange rate for each year is used to translate expenditures of each year.
(b) Provisional expenditure of FY1999/00.
(c) CIDA financing is reported as per University of Calgary Grantees statement of Expenditure No 31.
(d) Difference in total cost for SAR estimates and actual partly due to exchange rate fluctuations.
- 24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No.,of Persons and specialty               Performane      L
(e:. 2 Econfomist$s FMS, etc.) I:    lmpliementatin    Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress     ^      bjective
Identification/Preparation
05/1987                       5   Educator, Economist, Architect,
Management Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
9/1988                        5   Educator, Economist,
Architect
05/1989                       3   Educator, Legal Counsel,
Disbursement Officer
Supervision
06/1990                        1  Tech. Edu. Specialist                HS                 HS
02/1991                        1  Tech. Edu. Specialist                 S                 HS
06/1991                        1  Sr. Informatic Specialist             S                 HS
10/1991                        1  Tech. Edu. Specialist                 S                HS
04/1992                        1  Educator                              U                  S
12/1992                       2  Educator, Architect                    U                 S
05/1993                        2  Educator, Architect                   U                  S
11/1993                       2  Educator, Architect                    S                 S
05/1994                        2  Educator, Architect                   S                  S
02/1995                        3  Educators, Architect                  S                  S
11/1995                       2  Educator, Architect                    U                 U
04/1996                        2  Educator, Architect                   U                 U
11/1996                        2  Educator, Architect                   S                 S
06/1997                        4  Educator, Fin. Mgt. Analyst,          S                  S
Procur. Specialist and Architect
11/1997                        3  Educators, Architect                  S                 S
05/1998                        5  Educators, Procur. Specialist,        S                  S
Architect and Consultant
012/1998                       7  Educators, Architect, Procr.          S                  S
Specialist, Disb. Officer and
Consultant
07/1999                        5  Educators, Procurement                S                  S
Specialist, Fin. Mgt. Analyst and
Consultant
ICR
12/1999                       4   Educators, Architect and              S                 S
Consultant
-26 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                36.0                         99.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                     62.0                        170.5
Supervision                              218.6                        550.2
ICR                        T-15.0                                      48.0
Total                                    331.6                        867.7
US$ amounts for earlier years (FY88-90) are estimates.
-27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
N Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                          OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
N Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
N Financial                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Institutional Development                O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
N Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Gender                            O H *SUOM O N O NA
E Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
N Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
[ Lending                                            OHS *S  OU  OHU
N Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU   OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
X Preparation                                        O HS * S  O u  O HU
2 Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  O HS   s   O U  O HU
N Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
-29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Engineering Education Project. Progress Reports prepared for various supervision missions: 1995 - 1999.
Institute of Engineering. Strategic Implementation Plan and Working Papers. March 2000
Institute of Engineering. Ten Year Development Plan for Institute of Engineering, 1983.
Kulshrestha, O.P. Sector Overview of Diploma Level Education at the Institute ofEngineering. May
1994
Institute of Engineering. Diploma Program Transfer Plan. 1995.
Institute of Engingeering. Proceedings of Workshop on Achieving Excellence in Management and
Operation of Institute of Engineering, 1996.
Institute of Engingeering. Academic and Financial Profile of Students. 1996.
Institute of Engingeering. Proceeding of Workshop on Sponsored Courses. 1996.
Joshi, Rajendra Dhoj. Technical Education and Vocational Training. Working Paper prepared for the
World Bank Education Sector Work. March 2000.
Joshi, Rajendra Dhoj. Tertiary Education. Working Paper prepared for the World Bank Education Sector
Work. March 2000.
Kulshrestha et. al. Technician Training Under the Institute of Engineering. 1993.
Mainali, Madhav P. Supplementary Mission Reports: 1998 - 1999.
McEvers, Norman. Manpower Implications of Education and Training Development in the Kingdom of
Nepal. The International Development Association. 1983.
Ministry of Education. Report of the National Education Commission. 1992 and 1998.
National Planning Commission. The Ninth Plan. 1997 - 2002.
Berg, Gunnar J., Final Narrative Report for the Nepal Engineering Education Project, Canadian
International
Development Project # 676/15050, The University of Calgary, June 1997.
Shrestha, Uttarn Narayan. Management Plan for Institute of Engineering. 1989.
World Bank. Reports of various Supervision Missions: 1989 - 1999.
World Bank. Staff Appraisal Report for the Engineering Education Project. 1989.
- 30 -



Annex 8. Borrower's ICR
A. Project Objective
1.    Project Background
The Engineering Education Project (EEP) is the third IDA supported project for the
development and capacity expansion of engineering education in Nepal. Apart from IDA credit,
the grant contribution from Swiss and Canadian governments and matching contribution from the
His Majesty's Government of Nepal were the major sources of financing the EEP.
The EEP was effective from August 1989 and with two years of extension, the project
closing date was 31 December 1999.
2.    Project Objectives
The primary objective of the EEP was to increase the supply of engineers and technicians in the
country. This primary objective was to be achieved through:
-  expansion of the enrollment capacity of the technician training ( diploma courses) from about
1370 to 1700, and that of bachelor's courses from about 360 to 920 through construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance of the facilities at three campuses of the IOE;
- enhancement of the quality of the education by providing training to the faculty and staff,
improved curricula and educational materials: and
- strengthening the management capabilities of the IOE by creating positions of 3 associate
deans, training of staff, implementing MIS and establishing Manpower Development Unit.
B. Achievement of the Project Objectives
BI   Capacity Expansion
3.    The achievement with regards to the capacity expansions of technician training (diploma
programs) exceeded the target set in the DCA by about 13 percent. The present enrollment figure
stands at 1920 as against the DCA target of 1700. The steady state enrollment at the diploma
programs will reach 2304 within next two years, thus exceeding the target by 3 5.5%.
4.    The enrollment in the six degree programs (five programs as targeted in SAR and the sixth
in computer engineering introduced during the project implementation period) at present is 1109
against the target of 920. The achievement is over 20 percent of the target. The steady state
enrollment figure will be around 1632 within the next three years. The achievement in the steady
state will exceed the target by 77%.
5.    With some initial support from Norwegian Government, the IOE introduced post -
graduate programs in three areas: Urban Planning, Structural Engineering, and Environmental
- 31 -



Engineering. The post-graduate program in Water Resources was introduced without any external
support. The total enrollment in post- graduate programs is 128. Doctoral programs leading to
Ph.D. have also been introduced with IOE's own effort.
B2   Female Enrollment
6.    The SAR target of female enrollment to exceed 10 percent was grossly met by enrolling
about 12.5 percent of the female students at the IOE programs. However, the percentage of
female students admitted in the current intake at Purwanchal campus is only about six percent.
One of the possible reasons for low percentage of female student enrollment in Purwanchal
Campus could be lack of female dormitory in the campus.
B3   Infrastructure Development
7.    Construction of new facilities and renovation/rehabilitation of existing infrastructure in all
the campuses are completed. An achievement of 97.5 percent was made in the new construction
front. The achievements in renovation front are very impressive and exceed the 200 percent line.
B4   Equipment Procurement
8.    Laboratory equipment for degree programs are installed in respective departments and are
operational to the extent required by the curricula. Procurement of diploma laboratory equipment
is completed and the installation of the equipment is almost completed. The IOE average
achievement in equipment procurement is about 141 % as compared to SAR target.
9.    The Pulchowk campus is now linked to Internet via its own VSAT. IOE plans to provide
Internet connectivity to all of its campuses in near future. The required technical facilities for
Internet connectivity in the diploma campuses have been set-up.
B5    Class room and Laboratory Utilization
10.   The class room utilization level in all campuses has been improved and in some cases
exceeded the target set in SAR. The laboratory facility utilization level in Pulchowk campus
remains marginally below the SAR target of 65%. However this level in other diploma campuses
is well in line with the SAR target.
B6    Quality of Education
11.   The achievements with regards to enhancement of quality of education are also in line
with the targets set in SAR. A total of 154.1 staff years of international and regional fellowship
programs have been completed. The accomplished fellowship programs included 5 Ph.D., 38 M..
Sc., 15 senior fellows, 67 staff-years of technician training, 15 administrative staff training and 90
short-term training. The target for the fellowship was 173.5 study-years. A total of 334 teaching
faculty and support staff from the four campuses benefited from the fellowship programs. Out of
these total beneficiaries of fellowship program, 325 are with IOE.
- 32 -



12.   The curricula for the degree programs were developed jointly by the expatriates from
Consortium of Canadian Universities and the IOE faculty. A total of 316 new courses were
developed by the joint team. Moreover, beyond the scope of the project, the IOE faculty
developed over 100 new courses for Master level programs offered by the IOE.
13.   The diploma level curricula were developed (except for Civil and Architecture) by the
experts from the ILO and were reviewed and finalized by the respective subject committees of the
IOE. The IOE faculty, following inability of the ILO to recruit the concerned subject specialists at
intemational level, developed the curricula for Civil and Architecture programs. All the curricula
developed so far have been effected.
14.   Since the enrollment capacity at the various programs of the IOE has increased
considerably, new faculties have been recruited to cater to the increased class loads. With
additional recruitment, the IOE average teacher/student ratio now stands at 1:7.6. Though this
ratio, at present, is below the targeted value of 1:10 imnprovement can be expected once the
student number increases as the prograrns approach the steady state.
15.   The libraries of the campuses are now adequately equipped with new text and reference
books. A total of 37,828 bound volumes of text/reference books costing about 22 million rupees
has been procured for libraries of the campuses. Moreover, the Curriculum and Instructional
Material Development Unit (CIMDU) of the IOE, with financial support from the EEP has
produced 104 and 101 course and laboratory manuals for degree and diploma programs
respectively.
B7   Research, Development and Consultancy Works
16.   With the facilities developed under the EEP, various centers like Continuing Education
Division (CED), Center for Energy Studies (CES), Center for Information Technology Studies
(CITS), Manpower Development Unit (MDU) have been established and functional at IOE. The
Institute of Engineering Consultancy Services (IECS), a separate entity of the IOE, which was
made defunct due to its inability to win the design works package of the EEP, is now rejuvenated
and actively undertaking consultancy works. Similarly research and development activities have
been started at departmental levels of the IOE.
B8   Reputation of the IOE Programs
17.   Despite the fact that new universities and private engineering colleges are being
established in Nepal, the Institute of Engineering under the Tribhuvan University remains the
leading and reputable institution in the country. This is supported by the fact that only about 18%
of the aspirant are admitted in the degree programs of the IOE. The admitted percent of the total
applicants in diploma programs is only about 17. The single admission test administered by the
IOE has earned the reputation to be fair and objective. The quality of delivery in diploma
programs is improving. This is indicated by the increasing number of diploma graduates passing
the tough entrance test and admitted to the degree level. Similarly, the degree graduates of the
- 33 -



IOE are admitted in the post graduate programs of well-known universities abroad and have done
well. In fact the performance of the IOE graduates admitted at the Asian Institute of Technology
was instrumental to rank the Tribhuvan University in fifth position among the top ten universities
of the region.
B9    Compliance to the DCA Covenants
18.   All the DCA covenants including the two pertaining to single admission test and passing
of prerequisite examinations before continuation into the follow-up courses have been complied.
B10 Improvement of Management Capabilities of the IOE
19.   The objective to improve the management capabilities of the IOE have also been achieved
to the extent targeted in the SAR. The office of the Dean have been strengthened by appointing
two additional assistant Dean to look after the diploma programs (Assistant Dean- Diploma
programs) and the general academic administration of the IOE (Assistant Dean- Academic
administration and Planning). With these additional appointrnents, the total number of assistant
Deans now is four. The Manpower Development Unit (MDU) established within the Dean's
office is now operational and headed by the senior faculty. The MDU has organized several
training programs for the administrative staff of the IOE in the field of general administration
practices and computer education.
20.  In accordance with the Tribhuvan University Decentralization Rules, 1998, the IOE now
exercises greater degree of autonomy, both in academic and administrative matters. The Institute
of Engineering Management and Development Council have been formed to formulate plans and
policies of the IOE. A five member Implementation Committee, chaired by the Dean, has been
constituted to implement the plans and policies of the IOE. The by-laws outlining the
organizational structure of the IOE and defining the roles and responsibilities of its members have
been prepared and enacted.
21.   The Management Information System (MIS) has been developed and is being
implemented. The positive effect of MIS in improving management capabilities is yet to be
assessed.
22.   The Industrial Advisory Board and Industrial Linkage Units have been established and
functional in each of the IOE campuses.
23.   Maintenance of the facilities provided by the project was the major challenge for the IOE
for sustainability of the programs offered. To address the maintenance problems, Maintenance
Units (MU) have been set-up and functional in each of the IOE campuses. Adequate budgetary
provision has been made for the maintenance from the proceeds generated through internal
resource mobilization efforts.
- 34 -



Bll  Unanticipated Project Achievements
24.   The implementation of the project has produced some unanticipated positive results that
were not foreseen at the project appraisal. These unanticipated results are:
*  The enrollment capacity of the IOE has exceeded the SAR target significantly thus
offering more Nepalese a chance to get higher engineering education at affordable cost
within Nepal.
*  To prepare the nation for the emerging information technology age, the IOE introduced
new degree program in Computer Engineering.
*  The IOE started offering degree program in civil engineering at Paschimanchal Campus.
IOE plans to offer new degree program in Agriculture Engineering at Purwanchal Campus
and Geomatics Engineering at Pulchowk Campus.
*  Beyond the scope of the project, IOE has introduced post-graduate programs in four areas
of specialization and is preparing to offer in other areas like Renewable Energy
Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Electronics Engineering, Soil Mechanics etc. Plans
are underway to construct a Zero Energy House and Energy Park at the IOE.
*  The IOE has initiated serious plans to generate revenue for sustainable development of the
programs initiated through the project. By introducing cost recovery fee scheme, campus
development fund, campus maintenance fund, hostel maintenance fund and expanding
research and consultancy activities at various levels, IOE was able to generate about 50%
of the total operating budget granted by the university. Major bulk of the revenue
generated internally would go to the maintenance of the existing facilities and
procurement of new equipment/books. A part of the proceeds is also being used to
provide additional incentives for the key position holders, faculty and staff.
IOE has developed formal linkages with well known institutions in India, Bangladesh,
USA, Canada, Japan, Norway, Thailand and Indonesia.
T The 20-years strategic planning exercise to develop the vision for the future and to
formulate strategic plan of action is in final stage.
C. Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
25    The implementation of the project could not be completed within the originally agreed
time period of eight years and subsequently the implementation period was extended for two
years.
26    The initial implementation schedule envisaged start of all new degree programs by mid of
1992. By this time all the construction works, laboratory set-ups and curriculum development
were supposed to be completed. Unfortunately nothing significant (except placement of few
candidates in higher studies in Canadian Universities and preliminary works on degree curriculum)
could happen till the targeted date of start of all new degree programs. Almost all of these four
years were spent on resolving the disagreement between the PIU and the IDA on selection of
design consultant. During this critical stage of project implementation, none of the parties, the
PIU and the IDA, were serious to resolve the prolonged disagreement. Subsequently the
implementation suffered substantially. Finally in October 1992, the agreement with the design
consultant could be signed. Notwithstanding the unforeseen delays in implementation, the IOE
- 35 -



with strong support and encouragement from the campus management and the departments,
especially from the then Heads of Departments of Electronics and Electrical Engineering started
degree programs in Electronics and Electrical Engineering in September 1994. The degree
programs in Mechanical Engineering and Architecture were started in 1995.
27    Another delay encountered in implementing the project was the jeopardy created during
and after the popular democratic movement of 1990. For about a total of six months during and
after the movement, the activities of the PIU were slacked down due to organizational
uncertainties in the decision making level. If the design consultant were appointed as scheduled,
the effect of this movement in project implementation would have been negligible.
28    The major delay in implementing the diploma component of the project was the result of
the dilemma created by the uncertainties regarding the future umbrella of the diploma programs
offered by the IOE. In mid 1992, the National Education Commission recommended to phase-out,
by 2000 AD, the 10+2(3) levels of education from Tribhuvan University. Following this
recommendation, all the development activities related to the diploma programs were slacked
down until the policy decision was made regarding the future umbrella of the diploma programs
offered by IOE.
29    Among others, frequent change of personnel directly responsible for project
implementation (project coordinator of the PIU and the IDA task manager) is also, to some
extent, responsible for delays in implementation.
D. Project Sustainability
30    The Institute of Engineering has established itself as a premier institution of the nation
with credible admission and examination process; high quality physical facilities and well equipped
laboratories comparable to the reputed institution of the region or elsewhere. With these set-up
there is a high probability that the achievements of the project will be sustained. Furthermore
being the only engineering institution developed from the state support, it is unlikely that the
government will let it go down.
31    Sustainability of any undertaking largely depends upon the resources available to maintain
it. The IOE has taken serious measures to mobilize its internal resources to augment the grant
fund available from the government. In the current FY, the amount generated by the IOE by
mobilizing its internal resources amounts to about 50% of the recurrent expenses provided by the
government. Initiatives are being taken to increase this percentage to 70%.
32    Among the four campuses of the IOE, the Pulchowk campus, being the central campus
offering graduate and post-graduate level courses, is in better position in terms of internal revenue
generation. This is because the major source of internal revenue in Pulchowk campus is the fees
from the students enrolled under cost-recovery fee scheme.
33    Measures to increase revenue in diploma campuses are being taken. The Paschimanchal
campus now offer degree courses in civil engineering, and have introduced cost recovery fee
- 36 -



structures in civil and electrical diploma programs. Similarly plan is underway to introduce
Agriculture engineering degree program at Purwanchal campus where cost recovery fee structure
have already been introduced in civil and electrical engineering diploma courses.
34    Faculty commitment and motivation are another critical factors that have to be related to
the sustainability of the educational institution. One of the major weaknesses within the IOE is
low level of motivation and commitment of the faculty and staff and continuing staff attrition. The
low level of motivation and commitment is primarily a result of poor salary structure and lack of
prospects of research and professional works from within the institute. The IOB management has
to take this issue seriously and do needful to retain the qualified faculty and recruit capable ones.
E. Bank Performance
35    In early periods of project implementation, when the disagreement between IDA and PIU
in the selection of design consultants was at the peak, the bank did not alert the concerned
authorities about the consequences of the delay. Though the overall delay in project
implementation was primarily due to inability of the PIU to appoint the design consultant within
the prescribed period, the bank decided to down rate the project as a problem project only in 1992
when the major activities were underway. Were such measures taken in early days, the delays
could have been minimized.
36    At the periods of the implementation when the project was monitored directly through the
bank's headquarters, obtaining no-objections and approvals was somewhat time-consuming
process. Much slower became the process when the monitoring responsibility was transferred to
its office in New Delhi. At a later stage when the Kathmandu office started taking responsibilities,
the decision making process became quite fast.
37    With regards to the statements of accounts, the PIU had difficult times in getting
disbursement statements from the bank, specially with regards to the Swiss contribution.
38    The guidance and support rendered by the bank staff during the final years of the project
implementation was praiseworthy. During this period the PIU and the bank were in unison and
highly dedicated towards the successful completion of the project.
F. Borrower Performance
39.   The PIU could not gain required momentum in the initial stage of the project
implementation, basically due to inadequate staffing and unfavorable working environment
created by prolonged disagreement in selection of design consultant and uncertainties evolved
during popular political movement.
40.   During the second half of the project implementation, the PIU was adequately staffed and
received ample support from the bank, Tribhuvan University management and the govermnent.
With these supports from all entities, the PIU could gain momentum to achieve the project
objectives.
- 37 -



41.   With respect to the CIDA assisted component of the project, the PIU was able to
accomplish most of the targeted objectives within the two years extended project period (the
initial completion year of 1995 was extended to 1997) without any major complications.
G.     Lesson Learned
42.   The nation greatly benefited from the project by establishing a premier institution in the
field of engineering education in the country. The achievement could not have been realized
without proper coordination among the co-financiers: IDA, SDC and CIDA. The Institute of
Engineering wishes to express its sincere gratitude to these agencies and the government of Nepal
for their support and guidance in implementing the project.
43.   Successful completion of a project of this scale has raised the confidence and morale of
the faculty and staff of the IOE. The IOE is now fully capable of undertaking future projects of
similar or larger scale.
44.   Proper monitoring and evaluation arrangement is vital for the projects of this scale. The
EEP lacked adequate monitoring and evaluation mechanism as such. Although the project
document envisaged setting up of appropriate Project Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) scheme,
neither the bank, nor the borrower took this issue seriously. As a result many planned activities
could not be accomplished in time. However at later stage of project implementation PIU in
consultation with IDA developed a set of simple benchmarks / indicators by objective and timeline
to monitor progress during each supervision mission.
45.    Substantial portion of the project funds was invested on foreign expatriates for the
assignments that could have been accomplished by the Nepalese professionals at the same
standard or even better. Examples are the curriculum for civil and architecture engineering
diploma program developed by the Nepalese professionals at a rather small compensation
package. Whereas the project paid relatively handsome amount for the similar assigments for
developing diploma curricula for other engineering disciplines. Similarly about half a million
dollars of precious project fund (the credit) was spent on the services of intemational procurement
consultant though the EEP staff could have done the procurement job independently as they have
done for some ICB package of diploma equipment and Internet, Audio-visual, telephone
exchange and MIS equipment. It is therefore advisable that in-house capabilities first be assessed
thoroughly before finalizing the project documents.
46.   The project implementation was delayed, time and again, due to delays in obtaining budget
allocations from the government, primarily because of multi-tier control over the budget release.
For the development projects like this one, the budget release procedure should be made easier
and less time consuming.
- 38 -



Annex 9. SDC's Comments
SDC agrees with the performance rating of the project. In general, the results of the project are
promising, demonstrating that they can lead to a sustainable institution with the understanding
that:
     there is stability in the leadership;
     the promised block grants are transferred to IOE;
     the financial management improves; and
     the motivation, the commitment and the accountability of the faculty members is raised.
Until there is full commitment by teachers, instructors and faculty members, it will be difficult to
make the IOE a sustainable institution.
Despite these promising results, it has to be underlined that the (high) satisfactory performance is
mainly due to the two-year extension of the project. Two issues regarding sustainability are
always critical, (i) maintenance that has been carried out with project funds, and (ii)
establishment of functional linkages with industry.
Detailed questions and remarks:
p.5 (ii) Female Enrolment: The reduction in SDC funding was about US$ 1.38 million and not
US$ 1.5 million (See also p.10).
p.6 (v)  Equipment: It would be worthwhile to re-mention the factors that led to the late
procurement.
p.7 (iv) Admission Standards and Quality of lOE Education: Where is the link between the
percentage of admitted students and full-fee paying students? It seems the entry
requirements for full-fee paying students are not the same as for other applicants? If this
is the case, how can IOE maintain the quality level of its programmes in the long run?
p. 15/16 Partner Comments, SDC: To relate SDC's lessons learnt to the World Bank (WB)
presentation, we suggest the following modifications in our text:
9.1     SDC has appreciated the good working relationship with the Task Manager of the WB
and the members of the different review missions. SDC was always informed and
included in the missions taking place. Informal discussions with the WB Task Manager
took place when needed. Nevertheless, the influence of SDC in the steering of the
project was rather small, even though people with the required qualification were
available in SDC's Co-ordination Office.
9.2     The procedures regarding the Swiss funds flow were rather complicated (Project
Implementation Unit PIU - World Bank Nepal - World Bank Washington - PII).
Changes made in Washington were not always shared with the PIU, especially when the
amount reimbursed was less then asked; clear indications and justifications were often
missing. The PIU then came to SDC asking for explanations. We would suggest
improvement and strengthening of the information flow from World Bank Headquarters
- 39 -



to the project.
9.3     SDC's portion of the financing had to be scaled down when an extension of two years
was agreed. The extension became necessary due to the unsatisfactory progress of the
project during the early years of implementation. SDC itsell was facing severe budget
constraints due to the difficult situation of the Swiss federal budget and therefore had to
adjust its financial planning. As no funds were planned for :1998199 for this project, it
was not possible for SDC to support the new request in a better way. Organisations
should be more realistic regarding the time frame while planning such a huge project.
There will always be factors either outside or subject to the control of the government
and implementing agency that will affect the implementation and control of a project.
9.4     SDC played a role in the anticipated transfer of the diploma courses to CTEVT. At that
time, CTEVT was a very young institution that was not able to fulfil all the expectations
and tasks demanded of it. Knowing CTEVT and its organisational and manageral
qualities, it was certainly the wrong moment to push the govermment for such a policy
decision, without carrying out an independent analysis of the implications. We are still
convinced that the university should not delivery technician level training. And if it is
likely that degree programmes may squeeze the diploma programmes, the issues has to
be re-discussed. But once the objectives are set for a phase, the parties should stick to
them before entering into discussions regarding institutional changes. Avoid loosing
valuable time and delaying the implementation process.
-40 -



Annex 10. CIDA's Comments
The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) administered Canada's grant to
Nepal Engineering Education Project (NEEP). Implementation of the Canadian component was
contracted to the University of Calgary through the Division of Intemational Development. The
University of Calgary in turn formed a Consortium with University of British Columbia,
University of Saskatchewan and University of Manitoba engineering faculties.
Three categories of assistance were included within the CIDA contribution: (i) staff
training, (ii) laboratory, curriculum and teaching assistance and (iii) IOE administration,
management and accreditation.
1.    Staff Training included:
     senior fellowships - 12 fellowship were provided;
     graduate fellowships; MSc: 21 fellowships and PhD: 4 fellowships were provided;
     technician fellowships: a total of 27 fellowships were provided;
     librarian fellowships: 2 fellowships were provided;
     administration fellowships: 5 fellowships were provided;
     new staff training initiatives: Non-degree: 27 training initiatives were completed;
Short courses - Nepal: 15 short courses were completed;
Management: more than 25 visits to Canada
2.    Develop Curricula and Lab Facilities and Assist in Teaching included:
     curriculum development and laboratory equipment provision.
     three Canadian instructors were provided to assist in teaching.
3.   IOE Administration, Management and Accreditation:
     5 Canadian instructors provided assistance in class scheduling
     Canadian support provided for IOE Management and Administration and Accreditation.
Delays in project implementation in Nepal, usually caused by political developments and
by administrative problems internal to IOE and Tribhuvan University prevented certain assistance
to be completed as originally planned. Project implementation plans were reviewed and revised in
consultation with the parties concerned on a regular basis. New initiatives were introduced were
needed. Thus three special training programs were implemented and two workshops were
conducted that were not included in the original Project Management Plan. All five degree
programs are now in operation at IOEs Pulchowk Campus.
Cooperation and active support from IOE, the Consortium, World Bank and SNC have
enabled the CIDA funded NEEP to meet its principal objectives.
- 41 -



