Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7555-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
May 26, 1989
Population & Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their officeal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



CPWECY EOUIVALENTS
(At Appraisal October 1988)
Currency Unit - Nepal Rupee (NRP)
US$1 - NRP 24.3
NRPl - US$0.041
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)       -  3.28 feet (ft)'
1 kilometer (km) - 0.62 mile (mi)
Fiscal Year
July 16 - July 15
School Year
January - November/December
Academic Year - Institute
Of Engineering
July - May
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
ADB    -   Asian Development Bank
BNS    -   Basic Needs Strategy
CIDA   -    Canadian International Development Agency
HMG    -   His Majesty's Government
IOE    -    Institute of Engineering
JICA   -   Japanese International Cooperation Agency
MOEC   -   Ministry of Education and Culture
NORAD  -   Norwegian Assistance for Development
NPC    -   National Planning Commission
PCE    -   Proficiency Certificate in Engineering
PCS    -    Proficiency Certificate in Science
PIU    -    Project Implementation Unit
PPU    -   Project Preparation Unit
SATA   -    Swiss Association for Technical Assistance
SDC    -    Swiss Development Cooperation
SLC    -    School Leaving Certificate
SOEs   -    Statements of Expenditures
TU     -   Tribhuvan University
UNICEF -   United Nations Childrer.'s Fund
UNDP   -   United Nations Development Program
USAID  -   United States Agency for International Development



ANN . A 12
75                                Page 3
(e) Academic Programs and Records--an office which maintains students'
academic records and can assess performance and progress under the
Institute's academic regulations. This type of office is required
for: (i) the degree programs at Pulchowk; (ii) the certificate ,
programs at Pulchowk and Thapatali; and (iii) the certificate and
trade programs at Pokhara.
In addition, a central office is proposed to deal systematically with
the matters of admissions, examinations, and aspects of financial
support for registered students, i.e. tuition fee stipends, other
stipends, awards and scholarships.
(f)  Computer Services--a unit responsible for the management and
operation of IOE's common computer facilities and related equipment.
Computer Services would also assist with treining of personnel using
the equipment, and would provide software support. The unit would
serve all campuses.
(g)  Library Services--this is a standard unit responsible for books and
periodicals that constitute the library holdings. A main library is
envisaged at Pulchowk, with branch libraries at the other campuses,
all administered by a Chief Librarian.
(h) Printing--suitable printing and copying equipment is needed in the
Institute. Sophisticated facilities are now common and would likely
be acquired in this project. The facilities should be managed and
operated by personnel with appropriate skills. All photocopying
equipment should probably be the responsibility of a central office.
(i) Instructional Equipment--equipment required for learning and teaching
purposes would be managed by this unit. Most of the equipment is
portable, e.g. projectors, PA systems, VCRs and monitors. The office
would be responsible for stocking and servioing the components,
making them available as required, and operating some of the
equipment when used in teaching.
(j) Bookstore--this is clearly a separate operation that should be
handled by business people. The bookstore has a role to play in the
Institute by providing educational reference texts and learning
material that is particularly suitable, and available to students at
minimum cost. It should allow trading-in and selling of second-hand
textbooks. Also, the bookstore provides a mechanism whereby the
academic staff can market scholarly and professional material.
(k) Liaison and Information Analysis--as part of a management information
system, this unit would be responsible for general technology and
information transfer (external), liaison with government, industry,
and professional organizations. It would monitor certain Institute
operations, relevant market trends, and would advise regarding
manpower needs, special training requirements, and market
developments to which the Institute might respond. This function
would be incorporated into the Office of Manpower Development which
will be established in the project.



ANNEX 12
76                               Page 4
(1) Campus Planning--this unit would be concerned primarily with the
planning and construction of new physical facilities, major
renovation projects, plant upgrading, and primary technical services
and facilities.
Technical Services
7.       The need to establish a separate maintenance and technical services
unit is based on the following considerations. In engineering universities
and colleges, a great deal of laboratory equipment, instruments, testing
facilities, mechanical, electrical and electronic control systems are acquired
and used. In addition, aids, data-handling systems, and digital computers are
used for scientific or academic purposes and increasingly for administrative
services. The maintenance and servicing of much of this equipment is beyond
the capability of regular technical staff. In many universities, service
contracts are widely used next to specialized technical services units. The
need for effective maintenance and repair of equipment is expected to grow
substantially in the IOE. It would therefore be necessary to appoint a
Director of Maintenance and Technical Services who would manage a number of
technical staff specifically for Technical Services.
Library Services
8.       Library services is another area where a separate management function
is required. A Chief Librarian should head the library services and manage
the library, including branch libraries. He or she should interact with
Tribhuvan University's library service and library administration. The IOE
would also need effective library facility at Thapatali and Pokhara.
Management Information System (MIS)
9.       The proposed management information system (Liaison and Market
Studies, Information Analysis) would be established and report primarily to
the senior management of the Institute. The MIS unit would be handled by a
manager who could also be responsible for Campus Planning.



NOW
I                                                                               s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-L~~~~y ~
- P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g~~~~~~~~~~~D~U*W&*k&r                                                                                                   kw4mgk
~~~~F____ .*
~~~~~~~~p                                                                               wmwu                                               p          I  _ e.0
ca                                                         E                                                  s.
r~~~~~ ,rem lb                                                                                                                        Lr--------n
1~,, ,(2) ,-- _1            1' -i
0*                -
- k~~~~~~~AIvurd I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w~~~i~~~~e  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                               crfd tob          SAM         ot -f 
(4)-  w     4        .       -
- Ag*                                                                                    f           I
as  Ks _ _* .. 1 
S-otO mcds                                                               I-tlh                                                                    d _                   ___.. amahe
- FEta                                                      t21bWolwd                                                                   bbs-eIA S
- Accxuff                                                                                                  -Pogo Of                                                                    ox" thgkS>C@      
U It 
"Kd  - Accmxft ~ ~      ~      ~       ~      ~



ANNEX 13
78                                 Page 1
NEPAL
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents in Project File
Nepal Second Education Project (Technical and Vocational Training) Staff
Appraisal Report No. 3558-NEP, Education and Agricultural Institution
Division, South Asia Projects Department, The World Bank.
Tribhuvan University, Institute of Engineering, An Introduction, Lalitpur
1987.
N. McEvers, Manpower Implications of Education and Training Development in the
Kingdom of Nepal, The International Development Association, May 1983.
Nepal: Policies for Improved Growth and Alleviating Poverty. World Bank
1988.
Educonsult Ltd and the University of Calgary, Engineering Education
Development Project, A Feasibility Study, Institute of Engineering,
Tribhuvan University, Nepal, May 1987,
Ten Year Development Plau for IOE, Institute of Engineering Consultancy
Services, Kathrnandu, Nepal, September 1985.
Maintenance Management Plan for Institute of Engineering, Tribhuvan
University, Institute of Engineering, Project Preparation Unit,
P.B. Shrestha; P.N. Marky September, 1988.
Maintenance Inventory Work Report for Project Preparation Unit, 1988,
Tribhuvan University, Institute of Engineering Pulchowk Campus.
A Report on the Design Proposal for Pulchowk and Thapathali Campuses,
September 1, 1988, PPU Institute of Engineering, Pulchowk, Lalitpur
Reports and Proposal Drawings, Pokhara Campus Development Project Institute of
Engineering, August 1988.
Progress Reports on Rules and Regulations, Institute of Engineering, June
1984.



80.                                  82-                                   04                                    86.                                   S
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-j0,                                         /Y S  > 4    <   \NEPAL
! -f                     _                          J > I > 8 ^ ^ ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
,*+t  t  FAR-ESTERN_              M        WESTERN
,,;  v  .t<e   T  I (  2  ,    |  *    r*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *                       *~~  Inslihdte of Engineering
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eeIpnn Reio So* md,_                                                  e
\  (                                                                             -.  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Admnistrative Zone 8@unWhies
\ 2 . )_ ~~~~B        H    E   R      , _ <' -.-I.ow
-.R A  P T I                       G  A  N      A  KC               v
(s.6                                              * P ok howEsroRN Pkera
A/  A I                              N . .r .
*PuIchoY  cam.s.          s
LUM aI NI                     Thop             **l
4 IE                       A u   e,  I  m p tf  ,STERN
/ V                                    )       4        g   '-- g -  ><   t   K ( S  I
20     40              so 80  IX                                                       .*Jt' q,
KtiLOMSTKS                                      A                                        '-'-'-   .. M.C
7h i.0d. *W  'v ta,Mw* t1 E W 8 o no Kwd SW* a _ p    of                                                                   * _.
11 80     T     6  ~ &W lt   c  8A* a  * 2
(M        n  0 af $pS-   adwo m     -1 su* raeOIF b --dS
so           0vbbtl6irar                                                                                                    r_I                                 ._ 



,   trliutku Lizf  .L n
NEPAL
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC  DATA ...........................................................    iii
CREDIT AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY ...........................................                                    iv
I.   ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENT AND DEMAND  FOR  SKILLED LABOk  ....                           .........       1
A. Economic Development, Employment and the Demand for
Skilled  Labor .........................................                               1
B.   The  'ducation  System and Issues  in  the  Supply of
Engineering  Personnel .................................                               8
C.   Government  Policies  in Education and Skilled
Labor  Development .....................................                             15
D.  External Financing of Education and Skilled Labor
Development ...........................................                              16
E.   IDA  Strategy  and Rationale  for  Involvement .................                             18
F.   Previous  IDA  Lending  Experience  in Education ...............                             19
II.   THE PRO      ECT ....................................................                               20
A.   Origin  of  the Project ......................................                                20
B.   Project Objectives  and  Scope ...............................                               20
C.   Project  Description ........................................                                21
D.   Technical Assistance .......................................                                 23
III.   PROJECT  COSTS.  FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION ....................                                  24
A.   Costs ......................................................                                 24
B.   Financing ..................................................                                 26
C.   Project Management and  Implementation ......................                                27
D.   Environmental  Impact .......................................                                32
E.   Impact on Women ............................................                                 32
IV.   BENEFITS AND RISEKS .............................................                                   33
A.   Benefits ...................................................                                  33
B.   Risks ......................................................                                  33
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED .............................................                                    34
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Nepal in
September/October 1988. Mission members included Messrs. Joseph Bredie
(Mission Leader), Roland Bachmann, Gunnar Berg, Tom Coyle, Ian Morris and
Robert Jourdain (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by re,ipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1 Numbers of Regular Government Employees by
Grade and Class 1984/85 .........................................    4
1.2 External Assistance to the Education Sector
1981/82 - 1986/87 ...............................................   17
3.1 Cost Summary ....................................................   24
3.2  Financing Plan Summary ..........................................   25
3.3  Procurement Methods .............................................   27
ANNEXES
1. The Education System in Nepal
2. Economically Active Population 1971 and 1981
3. Engineering Manpower Demand and Supply Estimates
4. Technical Assistance Summary
5. Detailed Project Costs
6. Area and Unit Capital Cost
7. Implementation Schedule
8. Project Management and Implementation Capability
9. Improvements of the IOE Physical Facilities
10. Building Maintenance
11. Staff Requirements and Training
12.  Managemen. and Administration of the IOE
13. Selected Documents in the Project File



- iii -
NEPAL
BASIC DATA
POPULATION
Estimate (1988)                                               17.5 m
Annual Growth Rate                                             2.7X
Average density                                               119 per sq km
Literacy rate (1986)                                          34.81
GDP per capita (1987/88)                                      US$160
,EDUCATION
School Enrollments             Total         Male        Female       1 female
(1987)                  (1,000s)      (1,000s)    (1,000s)
Primary (grades 1-5)      1,912.5      1,327.8        583.7           31
Lower secondary
(grades 6-7)               281.5         207.9        73.6            26
Secondary
(grades 9-10)              278.0         209.9        68.1            24
Higher (2ost grade 10): _a
Certificate                  53.8          -            -
Diploma                      21.9
Degree                        4.7                       -
Public Lxpenditure on Education (1986-87)
As a percentage of GDP                                    2.1
As a percentage of Total Public Expenditure              11.0
Percentaga of      Approximate recurrent
Education budget       cost per student
1987/88                 1986/87
Rupees      US$
Primary               38                    252         10
Secondary             13                    362         15
Tertiary              25                  5,981        245
Other                 Z4
/a Includes 17,372 studencs enrolled in private campuses.



- iv -
NEAL
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower        : Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiary    : Institute of Engineering (IOE) of Tribhuvan University
Amount          : SDR 8.8 million (US$11.4 million equivalent)
Terms           : Standard with 40 years maturity
Cofinanciers   : The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) will
provide a grant equivalent to US$3.95 million. The Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC) will provide a grant
equivalent to US$8.53 million.
Proiect
Desexiption  : The project aims to broaden the spectrum of engineering
skills that will be available to the economy and increase
the supply of engineers snd technicians. It will redress
the current imbalances in the supply of engineering man-
power, reduce the current shortages and meet the demand
generated by the Government's investments in hydropower,
infrastructure and industry. In order to meet about 90X of
the projected demand and to train engineers and technicians
specifically for Nepal's needs the project will: (a) expand
the capacity of the IOE to train technicians from 1,370 to
about 1,700 places and that for engineers from 360 to about
920 places through construction and rehabilitation of
facilities at existing IOE campuses; (b) raise the quality
of engineering education through training staff, improving
curricula, providing educational materials and raising
admission and examination standards; and, (c) improve
management through strengthening the Office of the Dean,
training managerial and administrative staff, developing a
Management Information System and establishing a Manpower
Development Unit. The project will be implemented over a
period of eight years. To assist with the implementation, a
total of about 175 study-years of fellowships and about 26
staff-years of visiting specialists will be provided. CIDA
will finance a consortium of six universities to provide
assistance with the expansion of the engineering degree
programs and the improvements in management and academic
affairs. SDC will finance construction, technical
assistance for construction management, architectural
services and maintenance, and technical assistance for the
expansion and improvements of the certificate technician
programs and for project monitoring.



Rlika         : The project will assist in maklig the JOE the one institute
in Nepal capable of offering B.Sc. degree programs in Civil,
Electrical, Electronics and Mechanical Engineering, and in
Architecture and Rural Planning, that meet international
standards and are geared to Nepal's requirements. The IOE
will also produce more technicians with skills tailored to
the needs of the economy. Cost savings will be achieved by
substituting locally trained engineers for higher paid
expatriate ones and by lowe-ring the cost of training through
increased class size and teaching loads and better utiliza-
tion of staff and facilities. The major risk concerns the
possibility of flagging commitment within the Government to
carry through agreed reforms of management, staff regula-
tions and accreditation by external examiners. To reduce
this risk the Government agreed during negotiations to
change strategically important academic regulations and
appoint key management staff as a condition of
effectiveness.



- vi -
Prolect Cost:                                 1,ocal     ForLwdz     Total
------ (US$ million) -------
A. Facilities Development:
Pulchowk                              3.45          6.38     9.83
Thapathali                            0.71          1.28      1.99
Pokhara                               0.92          16
Subtotal La                         5.08          8.72    13.80
B. Staff and Curriculum Development:
Pulchowk                              0.82          4.97     5.80
Thapathali                            0.11          0.24     0.34
Pokhara                               P04.71
Subtotal /-                      1.23          5.62     6.85
C. Management Development:
Pulchowk                              0.36          0.41     0.77
Thapathali                            0.01          0.04     0.04
Pokhara                                              .Q       0.06
Subtotal  0a 0.37                              0.49     0.87
Baseline Cost                            6.69         14.83    21.52
Contingencies:
Physical                              0.58          1.21     1.80
Price                                 04            1.74     2.68
Total Project Cost /a /b                  8.21        17.79    26.00
Financing Plan:                               Local       Forei      Total
-(US$ million) -
Government                               2.11          -         2.11
CIDA                                      -            3.95     3.95
SDC                                      3.35          5.19     8.53
IDA                                       i.7          8.6     11.40
Total                                            Q 17.79    26.00
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY         1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
---------------------- US$ million ------------------
Annual              1.20   2.18   3.50   3.28   0.48   0.46   0.26   0.04
Cumulative          1.20   3.38   6.88  10.16  10.64  11.10  11.36  11.40
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
flg: IBRD No. 21597
La Figures may not add due to rounding.
1k Includes US$0.95 million in identifiable taxes.



NEPA
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND DEMAND FOR SKILLED LABOR
A. Economic Development. Emloyment and the Demand for Skilled Labor
Economic Development
1.1      Nepal's per capita GDP of US$160 places it among the very poorest
countries in the world. Despite developmental efforts over the past two
decades, sustained growth of per capita GDP has not been achieved. During the
Sixth Plan (1980-85) there was a surge in public expenditures aimed at
accelerating the pace of development by improving the provision of social and
economic infrastructure together with an expansion of the already considerable
government involvement in productive activities. This response to lagging
economic growth was not sustainable because of: (i) the ensuing large budget
and current account deficits (the latter resulting in a substantial fall in
international reserves); (ii) weaknesses in public administration; and
(iii) shortages of skilled labor.
1.2      In 1985, the first year of the Seventh Plan (1985-90), His Majesty's
Government (H1MG) implemented a fiscal stabilization program supported by an
IMF Standby Arrangement. Together with both the IMF and the World Bank, it
began implementing a concerted Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) in 1986 to
address a range of longer-term constraints to growth. Simultaneously, the
Government also launched an ambitious Basic Needs Strategy (BNS) aimed at
alleviating poverty and reaching "Asian Standards of Living" by the year 2000.
As a result of these policies economic performance has improved. During the
last three years GDP is estimated to have grown at over 4Z per annum despite
erratic weather in 1986-87 which resulted in drought followed by floods which
damaged transport and irrigation facilities. Over the ten years prior to the
SAP (1974-85) GDP had averaged 3.81 growth.
1.3      Sustained longer-term growth will depend on a range of important
factors including: (i) a continued sound policy response to changing macro
economic conditicns (including continued constraint on regular budget expen-
ditures); (ii) appropriate economic and social infrastructure investments
designed to support growth (particularly in the agricultural sector and
sectors which support agriculture); (iii) continued efforts to improve general
public administration and the efficiency of institutions supporting the
development effort; and (iv) continued investment in human resources designed
to raise the general level of education and reduce specific technical
workforce constraints.
1.4      HMG efforts to address these development problems have been reflected
in the sectoral allocations of the development budget in the Seventh Plan.
Considerable efforts have been made to both rehabilitate existing irrigation
facilities and extend the capacity of the irrigation system in order to reduce
the dependence of agricultural output on the timing of the monsoon. Efforts
have also been made to improve the level and quality of other direct inputs to



- 2 -
the agricultural sector and to improve and extend the transport system by the
continuation of a significant roads and bridges infrastructure program.
Hydropower investments have also been made. The emphasis on these sectors in
the Seventh Plan have been reinforced by the 1988-89 budget allocations. The
development budget has been increased by 50X to NRP 13.4 billion. In the key
economic sectors, irrigation's allocation was increased by 1401 to NRP 1.7
billion; road allocations were expanded 901 to almost NRP 2.0 billion and
ag-iculture by 80% to reach NRP 1.4 billion. Further, with the support of
major donors, the Government has agreed on the Arun III hydropower project
(402 MW) as the appropriate next investment in new generating capacity to meet
Nepal's demand for power. This project, to be commissioned in the late 1990s,
would increase Nepal's production of power by more than 200X. The plans for
the key sectors are ambitious but they will contribute to maintaining current
GDP growth rates. They will also have important implications for the demand
for skilled labor. The expansion of Nepal's basic economic infrastructure
included in the plan will moreover require a commensurate expansion of the
country's capacity to maintain its infrastructure in terms of both financial
resources and skilled labor.
population. Labor Force and Emplovment
1.5      The 1981 census indicated that Nepal's population increased by 301 to
15 million over the decade 1971-81 and the annual rate of population growth
over this period was 2.66%. The population was comparatively young as
indicated by the fact that 41% was aged 14 years and below. Official
estimates of the labor force are based on the population aged 10 years and
above which was 10.5 million in 1981. The economically active population was
estimated at 6.9 million, with a male participation rate of 83% and a female
participation rate of 46%. Over the decade 1971-81 the economically active
population increased by 2 million or at about 200,000 per annum. Nepal's
population is currently estimated at 17.5 million and is growing at about 2.7%
per annum. Even under the most optimistic World Bank population projection
scenario, total population is expected to be more than 24 million by 2000 and
about 30 million 10 years later. This momentum of population growth has
profound implications for the future growth of the labor force. Optimistic
World Bank projections of the labor force (defined here as 100% of males and
60% of females aged 15-59 years) indicate that it will reach 10.3 million in
the year 2000 (1985, 6.7 million) and the growth will be about 600,000 per
annum.
1.6      Nepal is essentially an agrarian society.  Agriculture contributed
57% of GDP and employed 91% of the workforce in 1981. Of the non-agricultural
sectors of the economy, community services (dominated by Government) accounted
for 7% of GDP and 4.6% of employment; and commerce for 3.5% of GDP and 1.6% of
employment. The non-agricultural sectors combined accounted for just over 30%
of GDP but less than 3% of employment. Manufacturing and construction which
accounted for 11% of GDP employed less than 1% of the workforce. The National
Planning Commission (NPC) anticipates that employment in agriculture will grow
at 3.5% and in the non-agricultural sectors by more than 8% per annum to the
year 2000. These rather optimistic projections of non-agricultural employment
growth still imply that agriculture would absorb about 81% of the economically
active population by the year 2000.



- 3 -
1.7      Although currently reported unemployment rates are low (some 51 of
t'he workforce) there is substantial underemployment particularly in the agri-
cultural sector. Underemployment has been estimated at 41X of person-days
available in rural areas and some 25X in urban areas. The BNS recognized this
and paid special attention to the alleviation of unemployment and
underemployment. A range of measures is being adopted to support the
expansion of employment in all sectors. The measures include formal
consideration of the employment implications of macro-economic decision-
making, the expansion of irrigation facilities (but with a shift in emphasis
toward smaller, less capital-intensive schemes), and an emphasis on labor-
,         intensive crops (foodgrains, sugar cane, tobacco) with multiple cropping where
possible.
OccuRational and Educational Profile of the Laborforce
1.8      The occupational breakdown of the laborforce shows that in '.981 only
600,000 of the economioally active population were engaged in non-agricultural
occupations (see Annex 2). Professional and technical workers accounted for
less than 11 of the laborforce (64,000) or about 111 of those engaged in non-
agricultural occupations.  About 36X of professional and technical workers had
a tertiary education and the largest proportion of tertiary-educated persons
were found in administrative occupations (611 of 6,200). Persons with a
primary education or less are predominant in all other occupational groups.
1.9      Government is the single largest wage sector employer in Nepal.  In
1985, total publ4c sector employment was about 203,000 made up as follows:
civil service 61,000, education 80,000, casual workers 22,000 and public
sector enterprises 40,000. (The first year of the Seventh Plan - 1985 - is
the latest year for which reasonably comprehensive data on employment is
available and is used here only as an order of magnitude estimate.) The
number of regular civil service employees by grade and employment class for
1984-85 is shown in Table 1.1. The importance of educational qualifications
required for civil service employment is evident. The minimum qualifications
appears to be the completion of lower secondary (grade 8 pass). Almost 851
(45,059) of the regular government employees have completed secondary or
higher education programs. HMG now requires that all school teachers have the
School Leaving Certificate (SLC) and the Ministry of Education and Culture is
not renewing the contract of teachers without this qualification.



-4-
Tablg 1.1:  NUMBERS OF REGULAR GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES BY GRADE AND CLASS
1984-85
Class            Entry Oualifications       Numbers
Gazetted      Special                                      43
I                                       511
II                                     1,788
III       Bachelor Degree               8.083
Total                   8,425
Nongazetted      I        Proficiency Certificate      14,039
II       School Leaving
Certificate (SLC)          22,595
III       Grade 10 pass                10,580
IV       Grade 8 pass                  5.559
Total                   52,773
Source: Strategies for National Manpower Development in
Nepal. ILO, Kathmandu, 1986, p. 94.
Shortages of Technical Labor
1.10     The development effort in Nepal with its emphasis on a reduction of
unemployment and underemployment through support for the agricultural sector
and the establishment of basic economic infrastructure for the development of
other sectors has been constrained by skilled labor shortages. Skill
shortages together with inadequate manpower planning and associated
inefficiencies in labor force utilization have been a major contributing
factor for the delays experienced with the implementation of development
projects in all sectors of the economy. The skill shortages or in many
sectors skill imbalances result from the traditional concentration on civil
engineering occupations in manpower planning, training and public sector
employment to the detriment of the needs for mechanical and electrical
engineering personnel in the water resources, power and communication sectors.
Evidence collected from project managers indicates that shortages of trained
engineering personnel tend to thwart efficient and timely execution of
projects in these sectors. The lack of skilled engineering personnel has also
been one of the principal reasons for the poor maintenance of infrastructure
and capital equipment. More generally, technical skill shortages throughout
the economy have constrained growth and expansion of employment opportunities.
1.11     While it is difficult to build up a comprehensive picture of the
skilled labor market in Nepal because of a lack of basic employment and labor
market data, available indicators strongly suggest that there are severe
shortages of skilled personnel--particularly engineering/technical personnel.



(An important element of the present project - the Office of Manpower
Development - is expected to significantly improve information available for
technical manpower planning.) In 1981, for example, 27X of paid employment in
the industrial sector (74,000 workers) were expatriates, many at the
supervisory level. Within the Government sector many technical posts (Gazetted
and Non-gazetted), which are important to the implementation of key
development projects remain unfilled. In 1981, the National Planning
Commission (NPC) reported a shortage of middle and higher level professional
and technical workers of about 201 of the available stock. Amongst these, the
greatest shortage (641) was reported for engineers. NPC estimates of
technical and professional workforce shortages at the start of the Seventh
Plan (1985) indicated that shortages had risen to 301 of available stock.
1.12     A range of labor market indicators confirm official estimates of
skilled workforce shortages. A sample survey of university graduates in 1983
indicates that 771 of all employed graduates got their job within 6 months
(only 4.3X took more than 1 year). While the level of unemployed graduates
was almost 24X of the sample, the vast majority were graduates of less than
two years standing. Further, 861 of the unemployed had a non-technical
education while only 14X had a technical/vocational qualification
(agriculture, engineering and education). Of the unemployed group, 301 were
graduates of the Institute of Commerce and Management, and 141 were from the
Institute of Science and Technology.
1.13     A more recent survey of 15 firms (public and private) with almost
3,000 employees indicated that:  (i) all but three firms had trouble finding
technical personnel particularly medium and high level technical personnel
(ii) thirteen firms expressed the need for further improvement in the skills
and knowledge of their employees particularly in the mechanical and electrical
areas; and (iii) technical personnel received more salary even though their
years of schooling were equal to that of non-technical personnel. Inducements
were usually given in the form of housing and dearness allowances and through
higher grading of staff.  Employers agreed that they needed to do this to keep
experienced workers (in the face of high demand).  Recruitment of skilled
personnel by firms is usually through advertisement--at least for permanent
posts.  An analysis of responses to advertisements in a sample of firms
indicated that:  (i) significantly more applicants apply for non-technical
posts; and (ii) the level of over-qualified graduates applying for posts is
significantly less for technical posts.
1.14     The most recent data on pressures in the labor market for technical
personnel confirms earlier trends. During the first three years of the
Seventh Plan (i.e. 1985-88), HMG has approved and financed 330 degree level
engineering posts in the civil service (a 151 expansion in the total stock)
and 1,012 certificate level posts (221 expansion). An NPC review of these new
posts in July 1988 indicated that 20% of both categories were unfilled
apparently because of a lack of supply. These figures do not cover posts
existing at the start of the Seventh Plan and it is estimated that there is
an overall vacancy rate of 111 for degree level posts and 121 for certificate
posts within the civil service (Annex 3).
1.15     The apparent shortage of engineers and technicians is a reflection of
Nepal's past inability to develop an appropriate stock of technical personnel
The actual proportion of engineering personnel in the economically active
population is smaller than in other countries in the region. Nepal currently



-6-
has about 2,700 engineers and 5,500 technicians. This is about 0.9X of the
economically active population in the non-agricultural sectors. This level is
extremely low compared to Bangladesh where 3.8% (1981) of the modern sector
labor force was comprised of engineers and technicians, of which 35X were
university graduates.
Projected Demand for Engineering Personnel
1.16     The current shortages of engineering personnel are expected to
increase according to projections prepared by the NPC. The projections are
based on the investment program of the Seventh Plan (1985-90), the workforce
required by public sector agencies to manage planned investments, and the need
of the private sector. They indicate that the demand for engineers would
increase by 9.81 per annum during the plan period and technicians by 11.31 per
annum. According to the Mid-Term Review of the plan (1985-88), realized
(effective) demand has grown at 4.81 for engineers and 6.91 for technicians
although the number of posts being approved in the engineering cadre by the
central agencies of HNG has been constrained by concerns over the lack of
supply of engineering personnel. Earlier projections made in an 1983
engineering personnel study estimated that the demand for engineers and
technicians would grow at 8X and 9.21 respectively per annum. iowever, these
projections were based on an annual average rate of expansion of the public
sector engineering cadre of 8.31 between 1978-83 and a projected rate of
expansion of government expenditure in excess of 131 per annum over the period
1983-95.
1.17     Having reviewed available information on (a) the labor market for
engineering personnel, including the small but growing private sector demand;
(b) the most recent and prospective performance of the economy; (c) the
ability of the government to mobilize domestic revenues and finance public
expenditures; and (d) government priorities for infrastructure investments and
support of the BNS, the mission has estimated that the effective demand for
engineers will grow at about 41 per annum over the period 1988 to 1992 and
3.5% to the year 2000, while that for technicians would grow 41 over the
period 1988-2000. (See Annex 3 for a more detailed discussion of engineering
manpower projections.)
Type of Engineering Personnel Required
1.18     The nature of the development effort means that Nepal requires
technical personnel in the four basic engineering disciplines: civil,
mechanical, electrical, electronics and in architecture and rural planning.
In 1983, the public sector stock of 1,890 engineers was broken up as follows:
66X civil, 61 mechanical, 101 electrical and 18Z other (survey officers,
electronics; telecommunications; aeronautical, mining, chemical and
mstallurgical engineers). While this distribution reflects in many ways the
nature of the past development programs in Nepal, it has also been influenced
by the nature of the past supply position which has not accurately reflected
either the past or present demand position. Further, the nature of
technological change throughout the formal sector is having an important
impact on trends in the demand for technical personnel and is expected to
raise the demand for electrical, electronics and mechanical engineers in
relation to civil engineers. Indications of this are evident from a number of



-7-
observations. For example, the World Bank projects that the domestic demand
for power will grow by 9-12X per annum, largely as a result of growth and
changes in technologies of production and consumption. (NeDal Power Subsector
Review. The World Bank Report No. 68792-NEP, January 15, 1988.) Also, while
there are no immediate plans to undertake large scale public sector
telecommunications investmenta, there has been significant growth in local
area networks as the formal business sector strives to reduce the transaction
costs of doing business. Given these developments in power and
communications, the demand for electrical and electronic engineering personnel
is expected to grow significantly.
1.19     Further, while it is not currently fully reflected in the budget,
there is a clear need to increase allocations for the maintenance of public
sector assets. Economic infrastructure assets--particularly in agriculture-
-must be maintained and extended. Continuing improvements in the productivity
of agriculture will also involve considerable expansion of agricultural
industry inputs. For this to happen, transportation, infrastructure and
services must also be maintained and extended. This will require technical
personnel in electrical and mechanical engineering presently not available.
1.20     A review of the labor market also indicates that the technical skills
need to be better tailored to the requirements of Nepal. Employers have
generally been satisfied with the technicians trained in Nepal but the
Government--the major employer--has not been satisfied with the quality of
many (particularly degree level) graduates who have returned from training
overseas. In many cases accreditation of these graduates has been a major
problem--particularly those from programs in eastern Europe. While there is
clearly a common core of technical knowledge in basic engineering programs,
there are country-specific considerations which need to be taken into account
in designing a national curriculum. These include: the educational
background of students entering the programs; the specific range of technical
skills required in Nepal on the basis of existing work practices; the nature
of engineering problems given Nepal's topography; and the range of engineering
tasks being undertaken as part of the national development efforts.



- 8 -
B. The Education System and Issues in the Sumgly
of Engineering Personnel
Overview
1.21     The formal educational system of Nepal is managed by the Ministry of
Education and Culture (MOEC) and provides for five years of primary education;
two years of lower secondary education; and three years of (upper) secondary
education. A national examination--the School Leaving Certificate (SLC)--is
held at the end of grade 10 and is a minimum requirement for entry to tertiary
studies and for most career positions in the public service including the
teaching service.  The largely autonomous multi-campus Tribhuvan University
(TU) is responsible for all tertiary education except Sanskrit education which
is provided by the Sanskrit University created in 1987, with an enrollment of
under 500 students. The academic program covers a wide spectrum of subjects.
Individual programs range from two to eight years but the majority of students
(65Z) are enrolled in Proficiency Certificate programs usually of two years'
duration.
1.22     The period from 1971 to the mid 1980's has been characterized by
rapid quantitative expansion at all levels of education. Total education
enrollments of about 0.5 million in 1971 had expanded to 2.4 million students
in 1987-88 attending about 17,500 schools and educational institutions
throughout the country. Currently, there are 1.9 million students at the
primary level (301 female); 281,500 at the lower secondary level (261 female)
and 278,000 at the secondary level (251 female). These advances have been the
result of expanding public sector support for the education system together
with strong social demand and considerable efforts to enhance the mobilization
of private finance for education. Despite the rapid increase in enrollments,
overall literacy rates are still low at 351 (52X males, 181 females) and
female enrollments are lagging.
1.23     In 1985, National Planning Commission data indicated that the gross
enrollment ratio was 82X for the primary age group (521 female); 311 at the
lower secondary level (191 female), and 201 at the secondary level (121
female). As a result of using different population estimates, the primary age
group figure used by MOEC for 1985 is 771. Net enrollment ratios are expected
to be significantly lower. However, the rate of expansion of the primary
education system since the mid 1980s has been less than the rate of population
increase indicating that the gross enrollment rate may decline and
improvements in literacy rates achieved in the past decade stagnate.
Expansion of enrollments at the secondary level may increase modestly in the
near future. University enrollments have increased to about 82,500 (including
17,372 private campus students) by 1988. The rate of increase has been 81 per
annum since 1982. The increase has been largely in private campuses, the
growth in public campuses has only been 3.81 over the same period. This rapid
growth in enrollments has been driven by a strong private demand for tertiary
education. A lack of strategic planning for labor force needs in the economy
has resulted in current enrollments being very skewed with humanities and law
having 481 of students and management 231 while engineering with 31, medicine



- 9 -
2X, and agriculture/forestry 21, account for a relatively small share of total
enrollments.
The Institute of Engineering
1.24     Engineering education is provided by the Institute of Engineering
(IOE) of the University. It provides proficiency level studies (which are of
three years' duration) in a range of engineering subjects and a bachelors
level degree program (of four years' duration) in civil engineering for
students with a proficiency certificate in either science and technology or
engineering. The IOE is also responsible for a small trades' program which is
part of the technical educacion system. The system of technical schools at
the secondary level is largely the responsibility of MOEC. Moreover, other
Ministries provide specialized and lower-level technical education programs.
1.25     The IOE has three campuses, Pulchowk (the main campus) and Thapathali
in Kathmandu and Pokhara in the Western Region. It had an errollment of 1,727
students in 1988 of which 21Z are degree level students, 701 certificate level
and 91 trades level. Students are being prepared primarily for jobs as civil
works overseers, mechanical, electrical and electronic supervisors,
refrigeration and air-conditioning technicians, architectural draftsmen and
civil engineers. Currently the IOE is graduating about 300 technicians each
year at the three campuses. The degree program in civil engineering was
developed (largely in response to demand by donors involved in the financing
of Nepal's infrastructure program) at the main campus at Pulchowk and has a
capacity to graduate about 55 annually. The IOE also trains about 100
craftsmen in a one-year program for the Western Region in Pokhara. Recently
HMG has decided that the training of craftsmen will be transferred in the mid
1990's to MOEC as part of reforms in technical and higher education.
1.26     Past investments in the IOE provide a basis for the expansion of
engineering education in Nepal. Existing programs are the result of a series
of efforts over a number of years designed to meet labor market requirements.
These efforts have met with mixed success. Capacity has been expanded but not
sufficiently to meet the demand. Curricula have been upgraded several times
in cooperation with engineering specialists and major employers but without
inputs from comprehensive job analysis. A range of factors impinge on the
design of programs and on the ability of the IOE to meet future skilled
workforce needs. These include academic, capacity and managerial constraints
which are discussed below.
The Strong Demand for Engineering Education
1.27     The demand for engineering education is strong and is expected to
increase with the projected growth in qualifying students. In 1988, the
number of students applying for a seat in the IOE's engineering education
programs was about ten times larger than the admission capacity. For the
technicians program admission requires completion of secondary education
(Grade 10) and passing of the SLC examination. Approximately 50,000 students



- 10 -
were enrolled in Grade 10 in 1987. About 49,350 of these sat for the SLC and
17,200 or 35X passed the eram. Students who fail the SLC may sit for it again
(without repeating grade 10) in later years. This adds significantly to the
total potential supply of SLC graduates wanting to enter the university. From
those who passed, about 4,560 applied for the 528 seats available in the
technician programs at the IOE. Admission to the civil engineering program
currently requires a Proficiency Certificate in Engineering (PCE) from the
three-year IOE program or a Proficiency Certificate in Science (PCS) from the
two-year science and technology programs. More than 5,300 students are
enrolled in the science and technology program and about 1,200 in the
engineering program. In 1988 there were more than 800 applications for the
IOE's civil engineering degree program (total 72 places in 1988) comprising
500 from a PCS program and more than 300 from the PCE program. The strong
demand for degree level engineering education is expected to continue,
particularly from the ranks of science and technology graduates. Students
from the PCS programs express a strong preference to enter either the medical
or the engineering degree program. Given the strong demand the IOE will
continue to have a sufficiently large pool of applicants even if it would
increase its admission capacity by 50X as is planned in this project.
Academic Background of Students and Admissions
1.28     Admission to certificate programs is competitive and based on the
applicants' academic background. There is no separate entrance test to
determine aptitude for technological courses. Admission requires: (a) a pass
in all nine SLC subjects; (b) an average of 601 in maths and English; and
(c) an average for all SLC subjects plus maths and English score of 501 or
more. Specific requirements above a pass are not made for science. The
quality of students particularly their proficiency in mathematics, science and
English tends to be inadequate and is one of the factors responsible for the
low pass rates at examinations and the high examination repetition rates
within the certificate program. Currently students who fail examinations do
not retake courses but progress to the next semester and subsequently retake
examinations of previous semester courses until a course is passed. This
phenomenon is known as backsitting and implies that there are no pre-requisite
courses in the certificate programs as presently constituted. Few SLC holders
achieve high scores in science and mathematics which are optional subjects
within the secondary school curriculum because of the lack of science and
mathematics teachers, books and materials in the schools. However, the ADB
currently has a project focused on improvements of science education in
secondary schools. While the IOE gives priority to students with the
appropriate background, with the current admission standards it is necessary
to teach remedial programs (particularly in science) to bring student
understanding up to the level required for the PCE program. The extent and
scope of remedial requirements in the curriculum needs to be reviewed in the
context of an overall review of the curriculum content based on analysis of
job requirements in the economy. The admission standards and the
effectiveness of remedial programs also need to be improved, and with the
assistance of IDA, the IOE is establishing a computer based facility to teach
remedial science, mathematics and in the future, English.



- 11 -
1.29     Admission to the civil engineering degree program is divided 50/50
between applicants from the PCS and PCE streams and is based on achievement at
the proficiency certificate exam (50X) and the result of an entrance test
(501). The IOE administers separate entrance tests for candidates from the
two streams. The test for candidates from the PCS program focuses on Science
and English while for candidates from the PCE program it focuses on
Engineering and English. The pass rate in both tests is 30X but the standards
in the PCS stream appear to be more clearly defined and more appropriate for
degree level engineering education than that for the PCE stream. From an
analysis of the PCE program curriculum it is also evident that the science
content is significantly lower than in the PCS program. In addition,
applicants from the PCE stream may have graduated several years earlier from
courses significantly different from those currently taught. To rectify this
situation, the IOE adjusts the nature of the entrance exam according to the
specific year(s) the student studied at the IOE. Two separate merit lists are
produced to fill the available number of places according to the 50/50 quota.
Thus students with very different academic backgrounds enter the civil
engineering program. The current entrance test do not adequately evaluate
applicants in areas crucial to success in the degree program. These include
aptitude in engineering, communication skills, and above average knowledge in
mathematics, physics and chemistry. As a result, marny students admitted under
the current admission procedures are weak particularly in the latter three
subjects. The appropriateness of the present admission standards need to be
reviewed in the light of the objectives of the degree program.
Enrollment of Women
1.30     The IOE reserves 101 of student places for women but has difficulty
filling this quota. Of the 4,560 applicants for certificate programs in 1988,
only 69 were women. The quota was 53. That same year there were only two
women among the first 24 on the merit list for the degree program in civil
engineering. There are presently 111 female students (6.41 of the total)
enrolled in IOE programs of whom 104 are in the certificate programs, i.e.,
almost 101 of enrollments in the certificate program are women, with a much
higher proportion being enrolled in architecture. Very few women appear to
seek a career in the areas of mechanical or civil engineering. In the civil
engineering degree program which has an enrollment of 237, only five students
are women. The lack of appropriate accommodation for women at the IOE has
often been cited as a constraint to enrolling more women.
Curriculum
1.31     The curriculum for the technicians programs at the IOE has been
revised several times. In 1986, the length of all technician programs was
extended from 2.5 to 3 years.  The past revisions have not been based on
actual surveys of job requirements and work practices in either the public or
private sectors. The current curriculum content emphasizes classroom
instruction which takes up 811 in the first year and 601 in the second and
third years. Relatively little time is spent on technology applications,
workshop experience and skill development. This would not seem to be
consistent with the changing nature of many of the jobs for which technicians
are recruited. There is strong evidence to suggest that improved
understanding of technology applications and enhanced technical/manual skills



- 12 -
would improve the external efficiency of current programs. This would require
a structural change in the curriculum by increasing the time spent in
laboratories and workshops.  The curriculum would also be enhanced by
allocating more time to maintenance and repair issues.  Presently, many of
those responsible for curriculum development, as well as many students in the
certificate programs, see the program as preparation for subsequent degree
studies in engineering. The guiding force for the technicians programs
should, however, be to satisfy requirements for the labor market not to serve
as a preparation for degree programs whose entry requirements demand among
other things high proficiency in science, mathematics and English.
1.32     The civil engineering degree program generally reflects patterns
typical of accredited programs in North America. It has a satisfactory
content in basic sciences e.nd engineering sciences but does not sufficiently
cover the relevant civil engineering subjects. The deficiencies in civil
engineering subjects are caused in part by a lack of appropriate laboratory
facilities. The curriculum adequately covers the particular engineering
requirements of Nepal. Periodic analysis of trends in employment and
technology should continue to guide further enhancements of the program.
Pressures to lower curriculum standards and admit students not sufficiently
competent in the basic sciences and mathematics should continue to be
resisted.
Examinations
1.33     The format and procedures for performance evaluation of students have
received considerable attention at the IOE. Final course grades comprise two
elements. First, students must pass an internal course assessment which
accounts for 20X of the final grade. Second, a final three-hour closed book
examination accounts for 80X of the final grade. An important problem with
the current student evaluation process--particularly at the technician level-
-is that not enough attention is paid to practical or skill related aspects of
the curriculum which cannot be examined under current procedures.
Academic Regulations
1.34     The present IOE regulations do not specify prerequisite or co-requi-
site courses. Students failing a course are permitted: (a) admission to
subsequent semester courses; and (b) an unlimited number of attempts at
passing failed courses by repeating final exams which are scheduled annually.
There is no time limit to graduation in a program (para. 1.28). These
procedures are recognized as undesirable from an educational standpoint. A
set of academic regulations is needed which would ensure that only
academically qualified students can progress from year to year, and that
realistic time limits are specified for graduation.
Competence of Staff
1.35     There is an adequate supply of qualified staff within the IOE
(Annex 11).  Many are highly qualified academically--particularly those
currently involved in civil engineering and architecture. The majority of
staff are involved in the teaching of certificate programs. Their technical



- 13 -
and professional engineering experience appears to be limited. It is also
necessary to improve the attitudes of staff towards the principal function of
the IOE--teaching. The observed lack of motivation to perform teaching duties
appears to be related to the cumbersome administration and the highly
centralized management of the IOE.
Instructional Materials
1.36     There is an inadequate and in some cases inappropriate supply of
instructional materials and consumable supplies at the IOE. This is particu-
larly evident in laboratories and workshops supporting the technician program
where consumable supplies and parts are lacking. The current supply of text-
books, teacher guides and learning materials to support the curriculum is also
inadequate and complicated by the fact that many students are not strong in
English. Teaching staff in the technician program need to provide lecture
notes and handouts often in both Nepali and English. The IOE has a range of
audio visual aids but these are not being used regularly since many classrooms
are not equipped for their use. On the other hand, the civil engineering
program has an adequate supply of textbooks and reference materials within the
library, but there is no campus bookstore to supply students with affordable
and appropriate textbooks for private use and to keep for their professional
working life.
Capacity Constraint
1. 37    The current capacity in Nepal to train engineering personnel is
inadequate in terms of student numbers and enrollment distribution
particular'y at the degree level. Nepal is almost totally dependent on
overseas training for its engineers. Since 1986 the IOE has had a capacity to
produce about 55 civil engineers annually. At full enrollment in 1990, the
output would increase to about 88. But in the other three basic areas of
engineering -- electrical, electronic and mechanical -- and in architecture
and rural planning, Nepal remains completely dependent on overseas training.
The number of degree level graduates being trained overseas presently is
insufficient. Moreover, the opportunities at good quality engineering
institutes in the region are diminishing because of the high indigenous demand
for engineering education in these countries. Further, donors have been
expressing reluctance to continue to finance the high cost of overseas
training for engineers.
1.38     The annual number of engineering fellowships has steadily declined
from about 130 in 1980 to less than 90 in 1987. However, a small number of
students obtain privately financed engineering education in the region. A
number of problems have been identified with overseas training which affect
the efficiency, quality and cost effectiveness of continued reliance on
overseas training to meet labor force ,.equirements. Specifically:
(a) studies overseas are often prolonged because of language proficiency
requirements; (b) qualifications from certain countries are not fully
recognized in Nepal; (c) few foreign programs currently available focus on the
nature of engineering problems faced in Nepal particularly in the areas of
hill irrigation, suspension bridges, hydropower, water supply management and
mountain road construction; and (d) overseas training is costly relative to
domestic training. The current operating cost per student per year at the IOE



- 14 -
in 1987 was NRP 10,137. The average cost of regional fellowships in the
region is NRP 27,000 and in North America or United Kingdom it is of the order
of NRP 206,000 per year.
Academic Management and Administration
1.39     As an Institute of Tribhuvan University, the IOE is subject to the
rules and policies under which the University operates. Tribhuvan provides
highly centralized management control for 69 campuses all over the country.
While university enrollment has tripled between 1975-85, the management
organization has not developed at the same pace and Tribhuvan is finding it
difficult to provide adequate management support for all campuses and
institutes. Recently, the Univarsity :ias begun to delegate some management
responsibilities to the technical institutes including the IOE. However, the
present management structure vI the IOE tends to concentrate decision-making
regarding academic affairs at. "dministration in the Dean's Office.
Considerable delegation of decision-making to department heads, separation of
academic and administrative functions, an effective advisory role for staff,
and a management structure which encourages academic leadership are needed if
the IOE is to take on more management responsibilities.
1.40     The primary function of IOE is teaching.  To support the teaching
function there is a need for effective administration of key areas including
budgeting, staffing and support services. A lack of appropriately skilled
personnel for administration, particularly in plant and facilities
maintenance, purchasing and stores, record keeping, data collection and
analysis and management information, hampers the development of effective
administrative support in the IOE.
Financing Education
1.41     Since 1971 the share of public expenditure on education as a propor-
tion of GDP has risen from less than 11 to 2.1X in 1986-87. The share of
education in total government expenditure has remained constant at around llX
for more than a decade. The largest determinant of resources available for
the further development of education in Nepal (given the poverty of the
majority of the population) is the potential to expand public resources
devoted to education. Historic trends and the long-term domestic resource
mobilization outlook indicate that the public budget is unlikely to grow
significantly faster than the economy; and competition for budget resources
from other Government programs would seem to indicate that the share of
education in the budget is unlikely to iLcrease significantly without a
conscious change in public expenditure policy. This implies that the public
resources available for education are likely to grow at a rate largely
determined by the performance of the economy. Most recent Bank projections
suggest GDP will grow at 4.51 per annum over the period 1988-92 and that
public expenditure will expand at a slightly higher rate.
1.42     The BNS has placed strong emphasis on the achievement of universal
primary education and there is a strong private demand for secondary and
university education. Thus, there will also continue to be strong competition
for resources within the education sector. In 1987-88, NRP 1.6 billion was
allocated to education. The share of the budget allocated to primary



- 15 -
education has been expanding since 1980-81 and has risen from 26Z to more than
401 in 1987-88. The share of the budget allocated to secondary education has
fallen from 18.51 to 13.21 over the same period. Enrollments have continued
to grow as a result of private financing of secondary education. The share of
the education budget devoted to the University has also fallen significantly
during the 1980s from 351 to 23.4X in 1987-88. The IOE's budget accounts for
5.21 of the University's budget and 1.21 of the education budget. There are
no private campuses providing engineering programs.
1.43     The IOE's total budget in 1987-88 was NRP 19.7 million with a recur-
rent budget of NRP 15.8 million. The average recurrent cost per student per
year in 1987 was NRP 10,137 or US$417.2. Measure.; planned by the IOE to
improve efficiency would reduce the unit cost to NRP 9,527 (US$392.0) by 1996.
This level of unit costs is low compared to the unit costs of secondary
(basic) level technical education programs in Nepal where unit costs of
between US$399 and US$655 have been calculated for the year 1985.
C. Government Policies in Education and Skilled Labor Development
1.44     HMG has recognized the potential development benefits from investment
in education and labor force development. Specifically, HMG has emphasized
primary education while also devoting resources to secondary, technical/
vocational education and higher education to meet the skilled labor force
requirements of the economy. The rapid quantitative expansion of the
education system was a result of Government efforts, particularly the imple-
mentation of the National Education System Plan in 1971 and the acceptance of
responsibility for a significant share of the financing of education beginning
in 1975-76. Primary education and textbooks for grades 1-3 are now provided
free of charge, although communities remain responsible for school buildings
and a large proportion of additional materials required by schools. In
secondary education HNG provides grants for 751 and 501 of teacher salaries at
the lower and upper levels, respectively. The rest of the funds are to be
raised from students fees and the local community. In higher education, which
is financed for more than 95% by the government, the emphasis is to expand the
output of engineering, medical, agricultural and forestry graduates.
1.45     HMG's specific targets for the education sector are reflected in the
Seventh Plan and with respect to the longer-term development of primary
education in the BNS. The Seventh Plan has a target of achieving a gross
enrollment ratio at 87% for primary schools by 1990 (82% in 1985). With the
launching of the BNS, HMG has decided to provide universal primary education
by the year 2000 and expand the currently modest adult literacy program.
While the targets of the BNS are overly ambitious (enrollments of boys would
need to expand 64% and girls 2411 over the period 1985-2000 and the primary
education budget would need to expand at about 7% per annum), the direction of
the policy thrust is sound.
1.46     At the secondary level, the Seventh Plan proposes to integrate the
two levels of secondary education and increase enrollments. Gross enrollment
ratio targets have been specified for lower secondary and secondary at 451 and
351 respectively. This is to be achieved by encouraging the establishment of
new schools and the expansion of existing schools. HMG is also concerned
about the quality of secondary education which provides the foundation for



- 16 -
both higher level education and employment. Specific efforts are being made
to reduce the number of untrained teachers and improve the quality of science
education.
1.47     The MOEC is implementing plans for the future development of
vocational/technical education. The existing seven technical schools under
MOEC have a capacity to train no more than 835 students. With the support of
the ADB, HNG is planning to construct four new schools to improve the regional
coverage of technical education (currently biased towards Kathmandu Valley)
and meet basic level labor force needs. The primary emphasis for higher
education as reflected in the Seventh Plan is to (a) improve quality by
strengthening the existing campuses of the University; (b) expand the capacity
and range of offerings of the technical institutes in line with skilled labor
force requirements; and (c) encourage the private provision of university
level programs under the general umbrella of the university.
D. External Financing of Education and Skilled Labor Development
1.48     A number of donors have been active in supporting education.  The
flow of external assistance to the education sector has expanded significantly
from 9.51 of total expenditure in 1975 to 17.91 in 1986 but fell to 13.31 in
1987. Over the six-year period 1981-87 more than 16% of education
expenditures and about 201 of development expenditure was financed by external
assistance as shown in Table 1.2. Loan assistance, wnich only began in
1978-79, has grown considerably and in 1986-87 it was significantly larger
than the grant aid but grant aid remains the most important component in the
1980's constituting about 571 of total external assistance disbursements.
1.49     Each level of education has several donors involved.  Co-ordination
between donors is however not very strong partly because of HMG's preference
to deal with donors incividually and partly because of the absence of a strong
public expenditure planning system which can focus individual donor
activities. The local UNDP office has taken a major interest in co-ordinating
the donors in the sector. IDA with its expanded involvement in the sector
will continue to work with HMG and donors to improve the effectiveness of
assistance to the education sector. IDA is in the process of finalizing an
overall strategy for its involvement in the social sectors.



- 17 -
Table 1.2: EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE TO THE EDUCATIOW SECTOR
t1981/82-1986/87)
NRP million
1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984185  1985/86  1986/87
Total expenditure         519.1  734.0  815.8  825.8  1,087.0  1,278.8
Devetopment expenditure pj  412.3  604.6  678.6  644.2   879.4  1,036.5
Aid disbursements: Loan    27.1   27.4   57.9   52.7    74.1  122.4
Grant       49.7  140.5   80.9   49.2   120.5   47.5
Total       76.8  167.9  138.8  101.9   194.6  169.9
Total aid disbursements as:
X of Total expenditure   14.8   22.9   17.0   12.3    17.9   13.3
X of Developnent expenditure    18.6   27.8   20.5   15.8    22.1   16.4
Source: Ministry of Fiance, Economic Survey 1987/88 (various tables).
Development expenditure as defined by HNG includes almost all
expenditures for primary education.
1.50     The major donors in the general education sector are IDA, ADB, USAID,
and UNDP.  Within the occupational training sector IDA, the Swiss Association
for Technical Assistance (SATA), and ADB have played an important role. The
focus of external assistance in general education has been to support
expansion of the system and improve the quality of the delivery.  In this
regard USAID has been assisting in expanding literacy (PVO-World Education,
1987-90, US$0.6 m) and training primary school teachers through a radio
education project (RETT-II, 1984-89, US$6.2 m). IDA together with UNDP and
UNICEF is supporting primary education (Cr. 1463-NEP, 1984-89, US$12.3 m).
UNESCO is also supporting teacher training and the development of textbooks
(1984-89, US$1.2 m), UNICEF/UNESCO and the Norwegian Assistance for
Development (NORAD) are involved in a project to improve the access of women
(1978-98, US$1.6 m). UNICEF/UNESCO and UNDP are financing an Education for
Rural Development Project (1981-86, US$1.3 m). Secondary education is being
supported through the ADB Science Education Project (1983-89, US$9.9 m).
1.51     Within the occupational training sector SATA is financing three
technical schools (1980-90, US$3.0 m). SATA has also supported the Education
Faculty of Tribhuvan University (1975-87, US$0.5 m). IDA is assisting the
Institute of Engineering w'th the First Education project (Cr. 772-NEP,
1978-85, US$6.5 m) complet-d in 1987, and the Second Education Project (Cr.
1198-NEP, 1985-90, US$14.3 m) which is currently under implementation. IDA is
also assisting the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science with the
Agricultural Manpower Project (Cr. 1534-NEP, 1985-91, US$8.4 m). USAID is
also providing support for the same institute (1985-91, US$16.5 m). The
Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) is giving assistance to the
Institute of Medicine (1980-88, US$1.6 m) which is also receiving technical
assistance from the University of Calagary (Canada) which is financed by CIDA.



- 18 -
1.52     In 1986, USAID financed a study designed to improve the efficiency
and management of the education sector which was completed in 1988 (IEES,
1984-88, US$0.3 m). Partly building on this study, IDA has undertaken a
review of the social sectors and poverty in Nepal. This will provide a basis
for IDA's continued involvement in the sector and support efforts to
coordinate assistance in the sector.
1.53     Several projects are under preparation.  At the secondary level the
ADB is preparing a Technical School Project (US$11.8 m) and a Teacher
Education Project (US$15.0 m). In higher education, the Government of India
is discussing a women's Polytechnic Project (US$4.7 m). In addition to the
Engineering Education Project, IDA is planning a Basic Education and a Poverty
Alleviation Project.
E. IDA Strategy and Rationale for Involvement
1.54     IDA has reviewed the overall status of human resource development in
Nepal and the nature of its contribution to the development effort. The long-
term development of Nepal is critically dependent on: reducing population
growth; upgrading the human resource base; removing specific skill
constraiuts; improving agricultural productivity and creating income
opportunities. Investment in the education sector is of strategic importance
and there is a need for external financing. The general level of basic
education needs to be improved significantly in order to meet basic needs,
support efforts to reduce population growth rates and raise the general level
of productivity of the labor force in the agricultural sector. In addition,
specific skill constraints need to be removed in order to provide the
workforce in support of the national development effort, particularly those
which support agriculture and the engineering personnel required for water
resources hydropower, roads and bridges and telecommunications.
1.55     Government efforts with donor support have been addressing these
objectives. IDA support for education was initially focussed on developing
the capacity to train skilled technical personnel (technical education and
agricultural training) with three projects from 1978. An Education Sector
Memorandum in 1981 recommended that further involvement concentrate on support
for primary education, secondary science, vocational training and engineering
education. As a result, a major ongoing Primary Education Project was
initiated in 1984. The ADB extended support for secondary science and SATA
for vocational training (paras. 1.50 and 1.51). The Engineering Education
project builds on past investments by IDA in the IOE and has been designed to
meet the needs for highly skilled labor force crucial to the development
efforts in the productive sectors.



- 19 -
F. Previous IDA Lending Exoerience in Education
1.56     The First Education Project (Cr. 772-NEP) was designed to expand
capacity and improve quality at the Pulchowk campus of the IOE. The Second
Education Project (Cr. 1198-NEP), was designed to establish a new IOE training
facility at Pokhara to train technicians for the Western Development Region.
The Third Education Project (Cr. 1463-NEP) aims to improve the quality of
primary education, expand primary school enrollment and improve retention in
700 schools in six districts. The Fourth Project (Cr. 1534-NEP) aims to
expand the capacity and quality of training programs at the Institute of
Agriculture and Animal Sciences.
1.57     The First Education Project, completed in 1987, took about two years
longer than planned because of weak contractor and project management perform-
ance. According to the Project Completion Report (Report No. 7172, Sec.
M88-340), some aspects of educational quality did not reach the standards
expected at appraisal. The reasons included frequent changes in curriculum,
underutilization of the staff development program and inadequate preparation
of incoming students. However, most of the students who completed the program
have found jobs readily and perform to the satisfaction of their employers
according to a tracer study conducted in 1984. Progress with the civil works
of the Second Education Project was initially delayed by weak project
management, compounded by the contractors inability to complete the work on
schedule. In 1986, new IOE management took effective measures to avoid
further delays. Construction, equipment and furniture installation were
basically completed in 1987. The education components, including the training
of trade trainees and technicians, staff training, and curriculum and learning
materials development are progressing well.
1.58     Implementation of the Third Education Project has been mixed with
training programs and development of instructional materials progressing well
but with civil works experiencing some delays due to difficulties with
construction in mountainous areas. Full use has not been made of IDA funds
for important technical assistance because of HMG reluctance to use IDA funds
for this. Despite these problems, preliminary evidence suggest that more
students are entering and staying in school in the project area, compared to
other areas, as a result of project activities. The Agricultural Nanpower
project has made significant progress. Key elements of the teaching program
are now fully operational.
1.59     Important lessons concerning deficiencies in project management,
maintenance and implementation learned from previous projects have been taken
into account in designing the Engineering Education project. To alleviate
these deficiencies, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be strengthened
with the addition of an experienced international construction manager,
maintenance teams will be set up at each campus and a consortium of
universities will assist with project implementation, particularly improving
academic quality and strengthening management of the IOE.



20 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
2.1      The project was identified in May 1983, when an IDA mission reached
an understanding with HMG regarding the need to establish the capacity to
train engineers in Nepal and to increase the output and quality of technician
training at the IOE. Project preparation was lengthy because policy decisions
required consensus from the public and private sector agencies which are
represented on tne Council of Tribhuvan University. These agencies had at
times, different interests and objectives regarding the IOE. In 1985, the IOE
submitted its Ten-Year Development Plan which included a proposal for a
project to construct a new campus for training engineers. The plan was
accepted in principle by the Government, but HMG and IDA suggested that the
IOE should develop an alternative lower-cost proposal for the training of
engineers.
2.2      During 1986, the IOE prepared a more economical alternative, with the
assistance of CIDA-financed consultants, focussing on more efficient use and
expansion of existing capacity. A feasibility study was submitted in
May 1987. The IOE also prepared plans for the improvements of staff
development, management, maintenance, and finance. On the basis of the
feasibility study and the plans, the project was preappraised in June 1987.
The preappraisal mission estimated that the costs to upgrade all campuses
would be US$35 million and that recurrent expenditures would increase by 27%
annually. To make the proposed project more affordable and sustainable in
view of the limited growth of the economy and the government's budget for the
social sectors, an IDA mission in January 1988, working with HMG, reduced the
scope and the cost of the project. In June 1988, a Project Preparation Unit
(PPU) was established to prepare for the appraisal which was undertaken in
September 1988.
B. Project Obiectives and ScoRe
2.3      The project will gradually increase IOE's capacity to train engineers
and technicians in order to alleviate shortages of engineering personnel and
to supply about 90% of the projected demand for engineering personnel which
will be generated by the Government's investment program in hydropower,
infrastructure and industry. The project builds on previous investments in
the IOE and continues the improvements in quality and efficiency started in
the previous projects. It also aims to enable the IOE to develop expertise
and provide professional services in engineering problems typical to Nepal.
Project Obiectives
2.4      The proposed project will assist in:
(a) expanding the enrollment capacity of the technician training programs
from 1,370 to about 1,700 students and that of the engineering
education programs from 360 to about 920 students through
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of facilities;



- 21 -
(b) raising the quality of engineering education through training of
staff, improving curricula, providing educational materials and rais-
ing admissions and examination standards; and
(c) improving management through strengthening the Office of the Dean,
training managerial and administrative staff, developing a Management
Information System, and establishing a Manpower Development Unit.
C. Proiect Descrigtion
2.5      The capacity expansion, academic improvements and institutional
development objectives will be achieved through a combination of three com-
ponents implemented over a period of eight years. The components and related
technical assistance will be implemented accord'ng to the schedule shown in
Annex 7. More detailed implementation schedules for maintenance, staff and
management development activities are presented in the Maintenance Plan, Staff
Development Plan and Management Plan prepared by the IOE. The project
components include:
Construction. Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Facilities.  (Estimated base
line costs, US$13.80 million)
2.6      At the Pulchowk campus, the project will include the construction of
facilities and the renovation of the existing classrooms, laboratories and
workshops. The new and ren. vated buildings will be furnished and educational
equipment would be installed. At the Thapathali campus, additions to the
classrooms, laboratory, workshops, student center and hostel facilities will
be constructed. The existing library, classrooms, laboratories and main
workshop will be renovated. Site improvements will be made to alleviate
current flooding problems. Furniture and equipment in these buildings will
also be provided. At the Pokhara Campus, additional laboratories, workshops,
staff houses, girls hostel and audio-visual resource center will be
constructed, furnished and equipped. Other facilities will be modified to
accommodate the expansion of technician enrollment. The PPU established in
June 1988 completed the campus plans and preliminary design drawings for each
of the three campuses before negotiations. Local architectural consulting
firms will be contracted to prepare the detailed construction working drawings
and provide full supervision of the construction and renovation work. To
assure proper maintenance, a campus maintenance manager and maintenance crews
have been recruited for each campus to execute effective programs for the
maintenance and repair of buildings as well as equipment. Additional funding
for maintenance activities will be provided in the recurrent budget. At
negotiations the Government provided assurances that proper maintenance crews,
programs and budgets have been established according to the Maintenance Plan
agreed to by the Association.



- 22 -
Staff and Curriculum DeveloRment (Estimated baseline costs, US$6.85 million)
2.7      For staff develooment, the project will provide international,
regional and local fellowships for post-graduate education and advanced tech-
nical training for the teaching staff, particularly those who will be teaching
the new degree programs. Preference will be given to female faculty members.
It will also provide visiting professors and instructors and the financing of
salaries for temporary staff. To improve staff utilization and alleviate
absenteeism, regulations governing teaching load, leave and sabbaticals will
be better enforced and/or changed if necessary. The Executive Committee of
Tribhuvan University approved the necessary measures and changes in the IOE's
regulations. They were presented during negotiations and are satisfactory to
the Association. Curriculum development will be strengthened by providing
assistance from local consultants, technical assistance specialists and
visiting professors to the faculty committees. Curriculum development will be
undertaken for the existing certificate and civil engineering degree programs,
the new architecture and rural planning program and for the three new
engineering degree programs. The first year of the ergineering degree
programs will be common and there will be a substantial common core in the
second year. Assistance will also be provided for the improvement of
admission standards and procedures as well as for the development of better
assessment and examination procedures, and academic regulations. At
negotiations, the government agreed that: (a) by July 1993 admission to the
degree program which is open to proficiency certificate holders, will require
applicants to pass a common admission test; and (b) by July 31, 1993, academic
regulations will provide that in the degree and certificate programs, students
shall have passed the examination(s) of prerequisite courses before they are
allowed to take follow-up courses. These agreements have been incorporated in
the IOE's regulations. Funds will be provided for the preparation, printing
and distribution of instructional materials, books and program prospectuses in
Nepali.
Management Development (Estimated base line costs US$0.87 million)
2.8      The office of the Dean will be strengthened through reorganization of
the senior management structure. In order to separate academic and
administrative responsibilities, positions will be established for two
Associate Deans for academic affairs--one responsible for the training of
technicians, the other for the education of engineers, and one Associate Dean
for services and planning (administration). The Dean and the Associate Deans
will form an Executive Committee, which will be responsible for managing the
Institute. At negotiations the Government gave assurances that Tribhuvan
University has approved the new management organization described in a
Management Plan which is acceptable to the Association. Appointment of the
three Associate Deans would be a condition for credit effectiveness. A
Governing Committee (currently called Advisory Committee) with wide
representation will also be established to increase IOE's responsiveness to
the needs of the community. Further training will be provided for managers
and administrators in new and existing functions and a Management Information
System will be developed to facilitate institute-wide budget, income and
expenditure control and performance monitoring. An Office of Manpower
Development will be set up by June 30, 1990 staffed by a part-time manager
under the Associate Dean for services and planning, to monitor the demand and
supply of engineering personnel in Nepal, provide a permanent link between IOE



- 23 -
and the labor market, and examine the ability of students to pay for higher
education. During negotiations, it was agreed that heads of Departments will
be appointed at each campus with full responsibilities for academic and
administrative operations reporting directly to the Associate Deans. The main
administrative facilities will be renovated and additional equipment and
furniture provided.
The reorganization of the management structure will be implemented according
to a program and timetable satisfactory to the Association.
D. Technical Assistance
2.9      The project will provide a total of 173.5 study-years of fellowships
and 26.5 staff-years of visiting specialists in a number of key areas. This
level of support is considered necessary on the basis of an assessment of the
IOE's project implementation capability. The assessment indicated that
assistance will be necessary for architectural design and the management of
civil works, developing curricula and determining equipment specifications.
On the basis of an analysis of the teaching requirements of existing and new
programs it was determined that 94 teaching staff and 25 support staff
(including four administrators) will need to be trained. In addition, 13
visiting professors will be required to teach the new degree programs while
IOE faculty is being trained.
2.10     For the construction, renovation and maintenance of facilities, SDC
will finance the assistance of an architectural specialists for about three
staff months, a construction manager for three staff-years and a maintenance
specialist for one-half staff-year, as well as one study-year for a building
maintenance fellowship.
2.11     For the curriculum and staff development, CIDA will finance
assistance for the engineering degree programs for improvements in admissions,
curriculum and examinations, preparation of equipment lists and lab layouts,
and the teaching of the degree level courses. The assistance will be provided
by a consortium of six Canadian Universities and include 8 study-years of
technical training, 72 study-years of graduate and post-graduate fellowships
and 16.37 staff-years of visiting specialists. CIDA will also assist with the
development of a system of accreditation. SDC will finance 41 study-years of
regional fellowships for staff who would be teaching in the degree programs
and 13 study-years of technical training for support staff. SDC will also
finance assistance for admission, curriculum, and examination improvements and
staff training for the technician certificate programs which will include 37
study-years of fellowships and 3.6 staff-years of visiting specialists.
2.12     For the management development, the project will finance a local
consultant to develop a Management Information System. In addition, CIDA will
finance one and a quarter staff-years for three visiting specialists from the
consortium to assist with the development of administrative services,
management and class scheduling. CIDA would also finance one and a half
study-years for administrative fellowships. SDC will finance seven staff
months for a specialist to assist with the development of a project planning,
monitoring and evaluation system.



- 24 -
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
3.1          The total cost of the project is estimated at US$26.0 million
equivalent. A summary of the estimated costs by component is provided in
Table 3.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 3.2 (detailed costs by
component and category and project expenditure by year and purpose are
presented in Annex 5).
Tabte 3.1: SUJSARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COHPONENT
NRP mllion                    j m"i  ion             Foreir  as  X of Total
Caqwonent                Locat    tore gn  TotaL        ocat     Toregn   oa        X of  otal  base cost
A. Facilitiess developmoent-
- Degree  Pulchouk          74.80   130.33   205.13        3.08     5.36    8.44            64         39
Certificate, Putchowk      9.10    24.59    33.68        0.37     1.01    1.39            73          7
Certificate, Thapathali  17.14    31.11    48.24         0.71     128    1.99             649
- Certificate, Pokhara      22.6    255    481             0.92     1.0      1.99           5
Subtotal La           123.49   211.87   335.36       5.08      8.72   13.80           63          o4
S. Staff and curricultm
development
- Degree  Pulchouk          10.84    98.35   106.19        0.45     4.05    4.49            90         21
- Certiftcate, Pulcho k      9.16    22.54    31.69        0.38     0.93    1.30            71          6
Certificate, Thsoathali   2.56       5.76     8.32       0.11     0.24    0.34            69          2
Certifiate, P                39    928                   030      0.41    0.71            57 
subtotal a             29.94   136.53   166.47        1.23     5.62    6.85           82          32
C. Management development
Degree  Pulchowk             8.67      9.95    18.62       0.36     0.41    0.77            53          4
- Certiffcate, Thapathali   0.16       0.92     1.07       0.01     0.04    0.04            85          0
- Certificate, Pokhara       0.27      1.15     1.42       0.01     0.05    0.06            I1          Q
Stbtotal LS             9.10    12.02    21.11       0.37      0.49    0.87           57           4
Total Baseline Costs          162.53   360.41   522.95        6.69    14.83   21.52            69         100
Physical contingencles       14.14    29.50    43.64        0.58      1.21    1.80           68          8
Price contingencies          22.80    42.31    65.11        0.94      1.74    2.68           65          12
Total Project Cost La         199.      432.22   631.70       8.21    17.79   26.00            _          121
/a Figures may not add due to rounding.



- 25 -
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
NRP miltion               US mii                Foreign as X of Total
Component              Locai- -F~IF ion   o      rFriatTotaL    X of total  base CSt
1. Investment Costs:
A. Civit works           87.53   57.09  144.61      3.60    2.35   5.95           39         28
B. Furniture             12.45    8.11   20.56      0.51    0.33   0.85           39          4
C. Professional services  9.99    -        9.99     0.41     -       0.41          -          2
9. International
fellowships          -      44.91   44.91       -       1.85   1.85         100          9
E.Rgmal fellowships           23.49   23.49               0.96   0.97         100          5
F. Local traifning       14.72            14.72     0.61    0        0.61          -         3
G. Local specialists     4.50    -         4.50     0.19    -        0.19                     1
H. Foreign specialists    -      62.03   62.03      -        2.55   2.55         100         12
I. Equipment             15.88  139.82  155.70      0.65    5.75   6.41           90         30
J. ok                    2.79   24.57   27.35       0.11    1.00   1.13           90          5
K. Consumable materials   1.64    0.40    2 04      0.07    0.02   0.08
Total Investment Cost  - 149.49  360.41  509.90     6.15   14.83  20.98           71         98
It. Recurrent Costs:
A. Maintenance            3.64    -        3.64     0.15    -        0.15          -          1
B. Staff salaries        4.71     -        4.71     0.19    -        0.19          -          1
C. Materials and Services 3.10    -        3.10     0.13    -        0.13          -          1
D. Utilities              1.60             1.60     0.07      _      0.07          -
Total Recurrent Costs /a 13.04    -       13.04     0.54    -        0.54          -
Total Baselire Costs /a 162.53  360.41  522.95      6.68   14.83  21.52           69        100
Physical contingencies 14.14   29.50   43.63      0.58    1.21   1.80           68          8
Price contingencies    22.80   42.31    0j3j1     0.94    1.74    2.68          65         12
Total Project Costs /a  199.47  432.22  631.70      8.21   17.78  26.00           68        121
a  Figures may not add due to rounding.
3.2         Baseline costs have been estimated on the basis of October,  1988
prices. Civil works costs are based on actual construction costs for similar
facilities in Nepal. Furniture costs are estimated at 15X of building costs.
Equipment costs have been estimated on the basis of actual costs of equipment
for similar types of facilities at other institutions, and include allowances
for transportation and installation. Unit area and capital costs per student
place are reasonable compared to Bank-wide averages (Annex 6). Unit costs for
local training, international and regional fellowships, and foreign
specialists have been based on standard rates used by international agencies
for similar services on projects in Nepal and elsewhere in the region.
3.3         Custom Duties and Taxes will be applied to goods not specifically
imported for the project. Civil works include a tax component estimated at
US$0.84 million. Instructional equipment, furniture, books and consumable
materials imported specifically under the project will be subject to a tax of



- 26 -
1Z. Total estimated duties and taxes amount to US$0.95 million. The
Government provided assurances that it would take the necessary steps to
ensure efficient customs clearance, including payment of such taxes.
3.4      Contingency allowances of US$4.48 million (about 21% of baseline
costs) have been included to account for unforeseen physical conditions and
estimated price escalation. Physical contingencies were estimated at 10% of
baseline costs for civil works, furniture, equipment and books, and at 51 for
all other categories. Price contingencies were estimated for both local and
foreign costs on the basis of projected average annual rates of price escala-
tion of 41 for foreign rates and 6X for local rates.
3.5      The foreign exchange component of US$17.78 million (about 681 of the
total estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the follow-
ing foreign exchange percentages: civil works - 401; furniture - 40%; equip-
ment and books - 90%; foreign specialists, regional fellowships and
international fellowships - 1001; and consumable materials - 20%.
B. Financing
3.6      The proposed IDA Credit of US$11.4 million plus grant c-'financing on
a parallel basis from CIDA and SDC totalling US$12.49 million will finance
about 91.91 of the total estimated project costs. A cross-effectiveness
condition between the IDA Credit and the cofinanciers' grants is included in
the Credit Agreement. IDA will act as the administrator for the SDC grant.
HMG will be responsible for the remaining 8.11 of the project costs, amounting
to about US$2.11 million equivalent (Table 3.3). The IDA Credit will cover
about 48.61 of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project, while the
cofinancing grants will cover the remaining 51.41. Indications of intent from
the cofinanciers were presented during negotiations.
Recurrent Expenditures
3.7      The project will generate additional recurrent expenditures for
salaries, operations and maintenance resulting from the nominal increase in
the number of staff and the substantial increase in the provisions for
learning materials, supplies, utilities and maintenance. The recurrent
expenditure budget is estimated to increase from NRP 20.1 million in 1988-89
to 25.7_mil:lion by 1996-97 (1988-89 prices) after which it is expected to
remaifi more or less at the same level. The average annual increase in 1988-89
prices is NRP 705 thousand or 3.131. The increase in recurrent expenditures
is primarily due to substantial increases in the provision of learning
materials and funds for repair and maintenance of 501 and 2001 respectively.
Despite a 50% increase in enrollments the increase in salary costs is
relatively small (15X), thanks to better deployment of staff and higher
student/teacher ratios. Unit recurrent costs actually decline from NRP 11
thousand to NRP 9.5 thousand over the life of the project (1989-97).



- 27 -
labtl 3: FINANCING PLAN
- us# million)
AHtG       AID1A          PtA            SCTotaltR
I tem            mt.    X   Am.            at. -X        Ii.         Amt    b4
Investment Costs
A. Civil works          1.40 20.0                 -      -     5.61   80.0 7.01  27.3
S. Furniture            0.05  5.0  0.98  95.0   -        -     -       -   1.03   4.0
C. Professional services -    -    -       -             -     0.46  100.0 0.46   1.8
D. International
fellowships      0.00  0.00 -        -     2.00 90.9   0.20    9.1 2.19   8.5
E. Regional fellouships 0.00  0.00 -        -     -      -     1.12  100.0 1.12   4.4
F. Local training       -     -    0.80 100.0        -      -          -   0.80   3.1
G. Local specialists                0.23 100.0       -         -            0.23   0.9
H. Foreign specialists  -     -    -       -      1.96 63.3   1.14   36.7 3.10  12.0
1. Equ1pment            0.21  2.6  7.58  97.3   -       -              -   7.78  30.3
J. Books                0.01  1.0  1.41  99.0   -       -      -       -   1.43   5.5
K. Consumable materials O.O  1O.0  0.l0  90.0   -       -     -       -   O.11    0.4
Recurrent Costs
A. Naintenance          0.12 58.8  0.09  41.2   -        -     v            0.21   0.8
B. Staff salaries       0.14 55.0  0.12  45.2   -        -             -   0.26   l.0
C. Materisls and Serv.  O.1O 58.0  0.07  41.9            -             -   O.l8   0.7
0. Utilities            0.05 56.9  0.04  43.0   -        -     -        -   0.09   0.4
Total Project Costs /g      2.11  8.1 11.40  43.9   3.95j/15.4   8.53   32.8 26.00 100.0
Less taxes and duties       0.95                                                0.95
Total Net Project Cost /S    1.16  4.5 11.40  43.9   3.95j/15.4   8.53   32.8 25.00 100.0
:a  Figures may not add due to rounding.
/1  Excluding the cost of overhead and aduininstration of CIDA ard the executing agency.
C. Project Management and Imniementation
3.8        Project management and implementation will be undertaken by a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) which will be established by the IOE.
Implementation will be done according to the schedule shown in Annex 7 which
was discussed and agreed upon during appraisal. The PIU will consist of full-
time staff dedicated to specific project activities, but who will be
integrated as regular members of the IOE's administrative structure. PIU
senior staff will include: a Project Coordinator; Project Architect; Project
Engineer; Education Officer; Procurement Officer; Administrative Officer;
Fiscal Officer; and, Site Supervision Officers. These staff will be assigned
to operating units in the IOE with related administrative responsibilities (as
indicated in the organizational chart in Annex 12). The selection of staff
for the PIU positions will be based on professional qualifications and
experience with similar project responsibilities and would be open to



- 28 -
candidates both from without and from within the IOE. The establishment and
staffing of the PIU as an integral component of the new IOE senior management
structure will be a condition of effectiveness.
3.9      The PIU will be responsible for procuring and directing the services
of civil works consultants and specialists to be provided under the technical
assistance program. The fellowship program will be implemented according to
administrative procedures acceptable to the Association, with the PIU having a
monitoring and coordinating role. The PIU will use the assistance of
specialists to carry out the Technical Assistance program. Procurement of
furniture, books and teaching materials for the project will be undertaken by
the PIU on the basis of specifications and tender documents to be drawn up and
executed by them. The PIU will use the assistance of specialists (Equipro) to
carry out the procurement of equipment for the project. The PIU will review
and approve the master plan and preliminary drawings prepared by the Project
Preparation Unit (PPU) for each campus with the assistance of a specialist
architect. These documents will constitute the facilities program and design
brief for the architectural consultants to prepare the detailed design and
working drawings for the new construction and renovation work required at the
three campuses. The PIU will select on a competitive basis following World
Bank guidelines for the Use of Consultants, architectural consultants from a
short-list of prequalified registered consulting firms. The contracts for
architectural consulting services will include responsibility for the
preparation of detailed design drawings and cont-.act documents, as well as
full supervision of the works. The PIU's project management capabilities will
be strengthened through the addition of a foreign construction management
specialist who will assist in the review of civil works contract documents,
construction scheduling, and site supervision activities. Also a specialist
architect will be provided to review the design and detailed construction
drawings. A Project Liaison Committee, consisting of key IOE administrative
and academic staff, will be established for each campus to work with the PIU
in the implementation of the project.
3.10     The project will be implemented over a period of eight years,
starting in mid-1989. Full enrollment will be achieved and all project
components will be completed by June 30, 1997. The Closing Date will be
December 31, 1997. (The project implementation schedule is shown in Anmex 7.)
Status of Proiect Prenaration
3.11     The IOE established a PPU in February 1988, which has prepared draft
master plans and preliminary design drawings for the renovation work and new
buildings required for the program changes at all three campuses. These plans
were reviewed and revisions were agreed to at app_...isal. The PPU is
proceeding with the finalization of the master plan and preliminary design
documents. Management, Staff Development, Maintenance, and Finance Plans have
also been prepared. The necessary revisions of these plans were discussed
during appraisal. The revised plans, which were ready by December 1988 and
reviewed by IDA, include timetables setting out the implementation schedule
for the activities and reforms contained in the plans. The curricula outlines
for the new degree programs have been reviewed and will be further revised by
the IOE Subject Committees prior to effectiveness.



- 29 -
Procurement
3.12        Procurement  arrangements  are  shown  in Table  3.4 below.
Table 3.4: PROJECT EXPENDITURE SY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(USS million)
Total cost
Procurement tethod           including
Category of expenditure    ice       L        u U ther pg  N/A   contingencies
Civil works                4.21      2.80                -          7.01
Professional services      -         0.35       0.11     -          0."6
-       (0.35)     (0.11)    -          (0.46)
Furniture                  0.41     0.62                 -          1.03
(0.41)   (0.57)      -        -          (0.98)
Equipment books and
consua6le materials      8.29      1.01       -        -          9.30
(8.29)   (0.78)      -                   (9.07)
Technical assistance:
Specialists              -                    3.10                3.10
Fellowships              -         -          3.31     -          3.31
Local experts and training -         -          1.03     -          1.03
-        -C(1.03)    -(.03) /I
Recurrent costs            -         -          -        0.74       0.74
-   -      -       (0.32)     (0.32)
Total /b                  12.91      4.78       7.55     0.74      26.00
(8.70)   (1.69)     (1.14)   (0.32)    (11.85)
Lg   Includes international shopping  direct purchase, and technical
assistance contributions by CIDA and SDC.
b Figures may not add due to rounding.
/c- Inctudes US0.15 million to cover the cost of transporting
student to training sites,
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Credit.



- 30 -
3.13     The contracts for civil works at the three campuses will be awarded
on the basis of ICB procedures in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. In
order to facilitate scheduling of the renovation work and to minimize
disruptions to existing academic activities, contracts for this work will be
organized into smaller components and awarded using LCB procedures. Equipment
will be tendered under ICB and LCB procedures. Books will be procured on the
basis of direct purchase from publishers or authorized distributors at the
lowest possible price on the basis of at least three price quotations if
applicable. Equipment, furniture and consumable materials will be divided
into two main groups: those items to be procured in large quantities (e.g.
value greater than US$200,000) will be secured through ICB procedures; and,
those items involving smaller quantities (e.g. value less than US$200,000)
will be procured using LCB. Minor and/or specialty items of equipment,
furniture, educational materials and books estimated to cost less than
US$5,000 each and aggregating to less than US$50,000 equivalent will be
purchased by international shopping on the basis of quotations from a minimum
of three suppliers. Agreement would be reached before Credit effectiveness on
a standard bidding document to be used for all ICB procedures. Since a
standard bidding document will be used, only technical specifications,
modifications to the standard document and proposed contract awarding will be
subject to prior review by the Association. Specialists will be selected in
accordance with Association Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
3.14     In view of the anticipated complexity of the equipment procurement
activity, involving several financial contributors and much specialized equip-
ment for the new degree programs, it is planned that specialist services of
the International Labour Office- -Technical Cooperation Equipment and
Subcontracting Branch (Equipro) be used to manage and implement according to
AssociationL Guidelines the equipment procurement process, covering ICB as well
as international shopping. Procurement services to be provided by Equipro
will include arrangements for insurances, shipping, transportation to sites,
installation, commissioning, training and warranty confirmation.
Disbursement
3.15     The proposed credit of US$11.4 million equivalent will be disbursed
over a period of eight years (Annex 5). Since civil works and procurement
which amounts to almost 90X of the credit are scheduled to be completed in
four years, almost 90% of the credit is scheduled to be disbursed in the same
period. Thus, the disbursement profile differs from the standard disbursement
profile for education projects in Nepal, which shows a 10 year disbursement
period and projects that 30% of the proceeds is disbursed after five and 75X
after seven years. The standard profile is based on previous projects in
Nepal which have suffered from considerable delays primarily with civil works.
Such delays are not expected in the proposed project because the Institute of
Engineering, the executing agency, has gained considerable experience with
project implementation in two previous IDA projects (Cr. 772-NEP and Cr.
1198-NEP) and one ADB project. This experience is likely to reduce the
possibility of implementation delays. In addition, to avoid delays with civil
works, a provision has been made for a construction management specialist to
assist with construction scheduling and management.



- 31 -
3.16     Disbursement would be made as follows:  (a) civil works--80X of total
expenditures; (b) equipment, furniture and consumable materials--lOOX of
foreign expenditures--1001 of local expenditures ex-factory, and 701 of other
local expenditures; and (c) professional services, local training, local
experts and books --100 of total expenditures. In addition, disbursement
will be made for WOI for the first two fiscal years of the borrower and for
601, 401, and 201, respectively, for each of the next two years for
incremental recurrent costs for maintenance, staff salaries, materials,
student services, utilities, operation and maintenance of vehicles, printing
and office supplies. Disbursements for expenditures covering professional
services and specialists will be against full documentation. Full
documentation will also be required for all other expenditures related to
contracts greater than US$200,000. For contracts below US$200,000, itemized
statements of expenditures (SOEs) will be used. Itemized statements of
expenditure will also be used for all expenditures covering fellowships, local
experts/training and recurrent and other costs. Documentation in support of
these SOEs will be retained by the PIU and made available to IDA supervision
missions on request. To the extent possible, withdrawal applications should
be consolidated into amounts totalling US$50,000 or more prior to submission
to the Association.
Snecial Accounts
3.17     In order to facilitate disbursements, two Special Accounts will be
established at the Nepal Rastra Bank, representing an estimated average of
four months expenditures: an Association Special Account with an authorized
allocation of US$500,000 and a Swiss Special Account with an authorized
allocation of SF 600,000.
Accounts. Audits and ReRorting
3.18     The PIU will establish and maintain separate accounts for all project
expenditures. The accounts will be maintained in accordance with sound
accounting practices. The executing agency, IOE has several accounting
officers who have managed the accounts of the two previous IDA projects.
Their experience is expected to be utilized in the proposed project. It has
been agreed during appraisal that the accounts will be maintained and audited
according to the practice established in the previous projects which is
satisfactory to the Association. Auditing of the accounts would be performed
annually by HMG's Accountant General's Office in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association. The Special Accounts and accounts supporting
SOE activity would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. The SOE audit should contain a separate opinion from the auditor as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. An audit
report will be submitted to the Association within twelve months of the end of
the Government's financial year. The Association may at times request other
information concerning the project records and accounts, certified by an
independent auditor. Such information should be submitted not later than six
months after the end of the particular fiscal year. The PIU will also monitor
progress in project implementation and report to the Association each
semester. Within twelve months of the Closing Date, the PIU will submit a
project completion report to the Association.



- 32 -
D. Environmental Impact
3.19     The project is expected to have a positive impact on the environment.
The engineers and technicians trained under the project will learn about ways
to preserve and improve the environment in a course on environmental
engineering which is already included in the program. They will also study
the engineering aspects of water supply, sanitation and waste disposal systems
and learn about the maintenance of existing systems. The maintenance of
systems which help to keep the environment clean, has not received sufficient
attention in Nepal. Upon completion of their studies, a significant
proportion of the engineers and technicians, particularly the civil engineers
and the architects and rural planners, are expected to be employed on public
sector projects in irrigation, water supply and sanitation and the planning of
urban and rural settlements. The IOE has already taken the initiative to
upgrade its waste management system at the new campus in Pokhara and similar
systems will be installed at the other two campuses. Also, landscaping and
site improvements to prevent erosion during the monsoon will be undertaken at
each campus as part of the project.
E. Imnact on Women
3.20     The IOE reserves 10  of the seats in the technician certificate and
in the engineering degree program for qualifying women. In the technician
program the impact of this measure is encouraging. In 1988, more than 101 of
the student enrollment in the technician certificate program were women. In
the civil engineering degree program the percentage of women is much lower,
around 2X which may partly reflect the traditionally limited interest women
currently have in construction work but also the lack of appropriate
accommodiations for them at the IOE campuses.
3.21     In addition to reserving seats for women, three additional measures
to increase the enrollment of women will be implemented in the project.
First, separate hostel facilities for women will be constructed at each
campus. On the basis of discussions with women students and women faculty
members, the mission expects that the availability of these facilities will
cause more women to enroll in engineering education. Second, at least two of
the engineering degree programs that will be established under the project,
electronics and architecture and rural planning, are expected to attract
women. This has been the experience in India, Bangladesh and other countries
in the region. Finally, qualified female faculty would be given preference
for the graduate and post-graduate fellowship training program in the project.
Raising the qualifications and status of the female faculty is expected to
have a positive impact on the acceptability of women in engineering and to
provide role models to women students.



- 33 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1      The major benefits of the proposed project will be:
(a) The Institute of Engineering will acquire the capacity to offer B.Sc.
degree programs and certificate programs in Civil, Electrical,
Electronics and Mechanical Engineering, and in Architecture and Rural
Planning, that meet international quality standards and are geared to
Nepal's requirements;
(b)  The IOE will produce engineers and technicians in sufficient numbers
to meet about 90X of the projected demand. With skills tailored to
the particular needs of Nepal these engineers and technicians will be
trained to design, operate, supervise and maintain the country's
economic infrastructure and assets;
(c) For the economy at large, cost savings will be achieved by
substituting locally trained engineers for higher paid expatriate
ones. Moreover, unit training costs will be lowered by increasing
class size, teaching load, school time, and through better
utilization of staff and facilities;
(d)  In addition, the project is expected to put the IOE on a sound
management basis.
B. Risks
4.2      The major risk concerns the possibility of a flagging commitment
within HMG to meaningful reforms of staff regulations, management, maintenance
and accreditation procedures. To address this risk, HMG has provided evidence
during negotiations that it has approved such reforms. Also, the appointment
of key management staff is a condition of effectiveness. Because of the
current impasse between India and Nepal on reaching new agreements on trade
and transit, it is also possible that there may be delays and increased costs
for this project. However, HMG is making every effort to resolve this issue,
and the financial contingencies provided in the cost estimates are expected to
cover any cost increases caused by delays.



- 34 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1      At negotiations, the Government provided the following:
(a) Evidence of the establishment of proper maintenance crews, programs
and budgets according to a Maintenance Plan agreed to by the
Association (para. 2.6).
(b) Regulations approved by Tribhuvan University pertaining to teaching
load, lease and sabbaticals, satisfactory to the Association (para.
2.7);
(c) Regulations approved by Tribhuvan University concerning the
establishment of the new management organization described in the
Management Plan satisfactory to the Association (para. 2.8);
(d) Letters of intent from the cofinanciers (para. 3.6);.
5.2      At negotiations the Government provided assurances that it has
incorporated the following changes in the IOE's regulations:
(a) By July 31, 1993 admission to the degree program will require
applicants to pass a common admission test (para. 2.7);
(b) By July 31, 1993, academic regulations will provide that in the
degree and certificate programs, students will have passed the
examination(s) of prerequisite courses before they are allowed to
take follow-up courses. (para. 2.7).
5.3      The Government also agreed that it will carry out the reorganization
of the management structure in accordance with the program and timetable
satisfactory to the Association (para 2.8).
5.4      As conditions for credit effectiveness, the Government agreed that it
will (a) establish the positions for the three Associate Deans and appoint
staff to these positions with experience and qualifications acceptable to the
Associations by July 15, 1989 (para. 2.8); (b) obtain formal agreements from
the Canadian International Development Agency to provide technical assistance
and from the Swiss Development Cooperation to finance civil works and
technical assistance (para. 3.6); and (c) establish and staff the PIU by July
15, 1989 (para. 3.8).
5.5      Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 8.8 million (US$11.4 million equivalent to the
Kingdom of Nepal on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



NEPAL
EDUCATION SYSTEM
low                     Scr         c
semt                       somt
r                          es
e H
r--Sod_    ~~erwf       swod         nmkt
l d         lg d Schoto   Shd         inn si        bhsDoxe
~LO9n   ----    r- -----! 
CtWWooe AmeFdad bt.o
l   SdenisCanpbett    drecdm Atbn'          l
Yl  O OM= TOdDSR29   CwWcabsEn&Vhe
TO V*k0o
&*M rOurecmVx D    3



36
Page 1
Economically Active Ponulation
Ten Years and Above
1971            1981
Persons    X of     Persons  X of    Annual growth
engaged    total    engaged  total       1971-81
('000)     engaged  ('000)   Engaged   (in X)
Industxy
Agricultural, Forestry
and Fishing                    4,579      94.35    6,244    91.15          3.1
Manufacturing La                   52       1.07       34      0.50         -4.2 Lc
Electricity, Gas and Water          2       0.04        3     0.04          4.1
Construction                        5       0.10        2      0.03        -8.8
Commerce                           64       1.32      109      1.59         5.5
Transport and Communication        10       0.21        7      0.10        -3.5
Financial and Business
Services                           3       0.06       10     0.15         12.8
Personnel and Community
Services                         138       2.84      314     4.58          8.6
Industries n.e.i.  bZ                                 127     1LA1.
Total                     4.856    100.0      6.850   100.0           3.5
OlCopation
Professional and Technical         25       0.52       64     0.93          9.9
Administrative                      1       0.02        6      0.09        19.0
Clerical                           47       0.97       49      0.72         0.4
Sales                              60       1.24       85      1.24         3.5
Services                           34       0.70       16     0.23         -7.3
Farming and Fishing             4,579      94.37    6,260    91.39          3.2
Production and Labor Workers      106       2.18      214      3.12         7.3
Occupational n.e.i.                         Z         156      2.28         N.A.
Total                     4.856    100.0      6.850   100.0           3.5
Emnlovment Status
Self-employed                   4,170      85.93    5,860    85.55          3.5
Employee                          453       9.33      621      9.07         3.2
Unpaid Family Workers             208       4.29      173      2.53        -1.8
Employer                           22       0.45       47     0.69          7.9
Status Not Stated                   -       -         149     2.18          NA.
4.856    100.0     6.850   100.O
/a Includes persons engaged in mining and quarrying sector.
,& Industries not earlier included.
/c The decrease in the number of persons engaged in some categories of
industry reflects a reclassification of industrial categories by the
National Planning Commission.



ANNEX-3-
37                                Page 1
NEPA
ENGINEERING MANPOWER DEMAND AND SUPPLY ESTIMATES 1987/88 - 1999/2000
Introduction
1.       The mission undertook a review of information available on the demand
and supply of engineering manpower in order to confirm that the scope of the
proposed project was reasonable. The information base available for this
purpose was less than adequate. The quantitative analysis of trends in demand
has drawn heavily on a qualitative analysis of developments in the economy and
their possible implications for the demand of technical manpower. The quali-
tative analysis was particularly important for the assessment of the size of
specific programs to be developed at the degree and certificate level. (An
important element of the project--The Manpower Development Office--is expected
to significantly improve information available for technical manpower planning
and develop formal contact between the IOE and employers to facilitate a
continuous analysis of employment needs and conditions.)
2.       The public sector is the major employer of skilled and technical
manpower in Nepal. It employs 90-95X of all engineering manpower. However,
consistent time series data (with mutually exclusive occupational and
sectoral/agency categories) on the deployment of engineering manpower in
either the public or private sector are not available. The mission was able
to review four separate estimates of the stock and anticipated future demand
for engineering manpower which have been made during the 1980s. Official
estimates made by the National Planning Commission (NPC) cover the public
sector for the period of the Seventh Plan 1985-1990 but are not presented by
individual public sector agency. The most comprehensive estimates are
contained in the McEvers (1983) study which covers the period 1982/83-1993/94.
However, the study does not cover all the agencies in either the public or
private sectors. Many of the public sector development boards, commissions
and public enterprises are covered but it does not include the government
owned manufacturing sector. With the exception of the major firms in the
construction sector it does not cover the private sector. By and large the
subsequent IECS study (1985) is based on the earlier McEvers study.
3.       It is possible with the information available to make reasonable
estimates, at an aggregate level, of the existing stock and likely future
trends in demand for degree and certificate level engineering graduates. (For
more disaggregated analysis it was judged that the margin of errors were too
large to provide meaningful results.)   While the four studies have differed
significantly in both the methodologies adopted and the extent to which the
private sector and public corporations have been taken into account (in part
determined by the inadequate information base) all studies have indicated that
severe shortages of technical manpower exists presently and that this was
expected to continue--particularly at the degree level--during the 1990s given
the existing supply situation. The degree of anticipated shortages of
technical manpower expected in the 1990s in the absence of an expansion of
domestic training capacity has varied significantly between studies largely
due to assumptions made about future trends in the effective demand for
engineering manpower.



ANNU 3
38                                Page 2
Projections of Future Requirements
4.       On the basis of the available studies, together with a review of
labor market indicators (paras. 1.10 to 1.15) and discussion with informed
senior government officials, the mission: (i) estimated the current (June
1988) stock of engineering manpower--both engineers and technicians; and
(ii) the average vacancy rate in the public sector. These estimates formed
the base for the projection of requirements for engineering manpower presented
in Tables 1 and 2 which are discussed below.
5.       Estimated SuDPlY and Demand as at June 1988.  The stock of manpower
estimated as of June 1988 has been based on data supplied by the NPC--princi-
pally the unpublished results of the mid-term review of the seventh plan-
-adjusted for known private sector activity. The estimated figures are
broadly consistent with adjusted estimates contained in both the IOE (1985)
and McEvers study (1983) although the level of vacancies used in the Mission
projections are significantly below those used in the latter two studies. A
previous study in 1983 estimated a vacancy rate of 15.32 for engineers and 202
for technicians. The mission estimated a vacancy rate of 1 for engineers
and 121 for technicians in June 1988. (These figures are deliberately
conservative and are based on (i) informed opinion and partial surveys of the
level of Nacancies and (ii) the reported 20X vacancy rate by NPC in all
engineering and technician posts created during the first three years of the
Seventh Plan.) An important reason for the apparent decline in the vacancy
rate has been the reluctance of the central agencies of government to approve
and fund new posts when they know the manpower does not exist to fill the
posts.
6.       Factors Influencing the Demand Projections.  The public sector is the
dominant employer of engineering manpower in Nepal. The future effective
demand for engineering manpower will be largely determined by both the public
sector's future capacity to expand its budget with the nature of the public
sector's sectoral allocation of development expenditure. The economy has
grown at 4.5X for the past three years and World Bank projections indicate
that over the period to 1992/93 GDP will continue to grow at 4.51 in real
terms (agricultural 3.61, non-agriculture 5.81). The projections also
indicate that government expenditure will be able to grow at a slightly higher
rate than GDF over the same period. (Nepal: Policies for Improving Growth
and Alleviating Poverty.  World Bank 1988.)   It is unlikely based on historic
trends, that this rate of expansion of the economy can be maintained over the
12 year period of this analysis of manpower requirements. Implicit
assumptions about long-term growth used to underpin the manpower projections
are that GDP growth would be of the order 3.5X-4X per annum.
7.       In addition to underlying GDP growth projections a number of govern-
ment policies and actions will obviously influence the nature and level of
skilled/technical manpower demand. The choice of a range of macroeconomic
policies including wages policy (changes in the real wage level) and the
sectoral allocation of government development expenditure will have a very
important impact on skilled labor demand. HMG has planned a number of impor-
tant investments in (i) agriculture (irrigation projects); (ii) large-scale
investment in electrical power and infrastructure (including the rehabilita-
tion of roads, water supply and storage facilities); and (iii) expansion of
communications and transport systems. These will all place a large demand on
the existing cadre of engineering manpower.



-x 3
Page 3
Table t: ESTIMATED ENGINEERING MALUhOR DEMAND AM  SUPPLY, 1987/88-1999/2000
June aM     m/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  19m/94  1994/96  1996/9.  1990/97  199/98  I /9  1999/2000
A  Emncn.rs
Estimate  dmadnd       2,973     3,092    3,218    3,344    3,481    3,682    3,706    3,638    3,972    4,111    4,266   4,404         4,658
Estimated stock       2,700      2,700    2,638    2,949    3,062    3,141    3,216    3,274    3,386    3,620    3,636    3,740        3,863
Supply
Local                    -        88       88        Be       68       86        88      164      170      220       220      220       220
Foreiga                  _       131      108       104       92       80        88        6        o0       0        0         0         0
Anausl attrition           -        81       a6        66       92       94        93       98      102       106      109      112       its
Not Supply         2.700      2.838    2.949    3,062    3.141    3  16-   3.274    3.386    3.620    3.036    3.748    3.663        3.i6S
Not supply as I
of do mnd              91         92       92        91       91       90       88        es       89       es       88       69         61
3. Technicians
Estimated deon4       6,126      6,370    6,626    6,690    7,106    7,462    7,760    8,060    9,382    6,118   9,066    9,429         9,606
Estimated stock       6,470      6,470    6,e06    6,969    8,246    6,677    8,876    7,207    7,662    7,688    8,210    8,605        6,900
Suply
Local                    -       363      416      436       468      462      504       626      626      626      656      656        566
Forei;                   -         0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0          0
Anmual attrition           -       137      142       149      160      184       172      190      189       197      206      214       223
Hot Supply         6.6470     6.686    6.969    0246      0 6.617    6-076    7.207    76S24   7-E      0.216    8.666    8906       9.23s
Net aupply as X
Of deond               89         89       90       91        92       92       93        94       94       94       94       94         94



ANNEX 3
4f                                Page 4
8.       Further, while it is not currently fully reflected in government
budget allocations, there is a clear need to expand the funds allocated to the
maintenance of public sector assets. While this need is not currently an
effective demand (it can only happen with a reallocation of current expendi-
ture priorities) it will clearly be essential if reasonable GDP growth rates
are to be maintained. Economic infrastructure assets--particularly in the
agricultural sector--must be maintained and extended. Continuing improvements
in the productivity of agriculture will also involve considerable expansion of
agricultural industry inputs. For this to happen, transportation infrastruc-
ture and services must also be maintained and extended. Trends in this direc-
tion will require technical manpower not presently available.
9.       The private sector is currently a relatively small employer of
technical manpower (modern manufacturing accounts for only 3.1X of GDP) but it
is currently growing at a rapid rate. The index of industrial production is
estimated to have increased 70X since 1985 and the current policy framework
makes it likely that sustained growth, albeit from the small base, will
continue. (Nepal: Policies for Improving Growth and Alleviating Poverty,
World Bank 1988 p. iii.) The larger towns in the Terai, the location for a
significant proportion of manufacturing activity, are growing very fast at up
to 20X per annum. It is also evident that the formal service sector in the
larger towns is undergoing both real growth and significant technological
change (e.g. computerization and use of local area communication networks)
which will impact on the demand for technical manpower as new technologies are
adopted.
10.      The Demand Plojections.  Following an assessment of historic and
anticipated trends in the sectoral allocation of public expenditures (particu-
larly as reflected in the development budget); together with (i) the level of
resources likely to be available to Government; (ii) the need to expand
maintenance budgets, and (iii) the pace of growth and technological change in
the manufacturing and service sectors of the economy; the following growth
rates in the effective demand for technical manpower have been used for the
demand projections over the 12 year period to the year 2000:
Engineers:      1987/88 - 1991/82    4.0 percent
1991/92 - 1999/2000 3.5 percent
Technicians:    1987/88 - 1999/2000  4.0 percent
(This assessment has assumed there will not be a major change in the
technologies used by the Government administration. A decision to computerize
and develop local area communication networks on a wide scale would add
significantly to manpower requirements in a range of engineering disciplines.)
11.      During the first three years of the Seventh Plan (i.e., 1985-1988)
the total number of engineering posts in the public sector increased 4.8X per
annum and the number of technician level posts 6.9X per annum. On this basis
the demand estimates used for the projections are conservative. The higher
sustained growth rate for technicians is based on the observations that:
(i) there are currently only 2.03 technicians for every engineer (a more usual
international ratio is 4:1 or 5:1) and (ii) the nature of projected
investments are more likely to require and attract technician level personnel
(e.g. smaller scale irrigation projects and the prospective expansion of



ANN& d
41                                Page 5
maintenance programs for roads, buildings, irrigation, and
transport/communication systems). On the basis of the proposed project the
engineer to technician ratio would only rise to 1:2.3 by 1999/2000 from the
current 1:2. A major alteration of work practices (not currently planned) by
Government would expand the requirements for technicians significantly but
would not reduce the demand for engineers.
Supply Estimates
12.      The supply projections are primarily based on the enrollment plans
resulting from the implementation of the project. The following points should
be noted. Firstly, government plans to stop sponsoring students (funded by
either government or donors) to engineering programs in overseas universities.
This is consistent with donor wishes not to maintain past programs indefi-
nitely. Current planning will result in a phasing out of overseas supply by
1997. Secondly, of those who enter the various programs it has been assumed
that only 131 will not complete a degree or certificate. Given the proposed
changes to rules and regulations concerning academic progress and the academic
standards to be achieved by students, the 13X dropout rate may be
conservative--at least during the period of the project. Thirdly, it is
assumed that no certificate level graduates will automatically enter the
degree program. Currently 50X of students entering the civil engineering
degree program of IOE come from the certificate program. Proposed changes to
curriculum and entry standards to the degree program to be made under the
project will make it very unlikely that many certificate level graduates will
qualify for entry to the degree program. Fourthly, it is assumed that all
graduates from IOE will enter the workforce directly upon graduation. This is
a reasonable assumption as available evidence suggests participation rates of
graduates are approaching 1001.
13.      Annual Attrition of the EngineerinZ Cadre.  The mission has estimated
that the annual attrition from the stock of engineers would be 3X and 2.51
for technicians. This is made up of allowances for retirement, accident/sick-
ness and job mobility out of the engineering professions. Data on which to
base estimates for attrition are limited. Estimates used in other studies
have varied and their basis have not been explained. Official studies have
used 41 per annum; the McEvers study used 1.71 for engineers and 1.31 for
technicians. A recent manpower study of agricultural sector manpower (includ-
ing engineering manpower in the agricultural sector) estimated at 41 attrition
rate.
The Results
14.      The results of the aggregate projections presented in Table 1 have
been based on conservative estimates in the demand for engineering manpower.
They indicate that about 881 of requirements for degree level manpower and
about 941 of certificate level manpower will be met by the year 2000.
15.      If demand were to grow a; the same rate as the past three years (4.81
for engineers and 6.91 for technicians) and all other variables remained
unchanged only 751 of demand for engineers and 681 of demand for technicians
would be met in the year 2000. This demand scenario is shown in Table 2.



ANEX 3
42                                           Page 6
Tabg   e: ESTINATED ENGINEERING  MPOIER DENAND AND SUPPLY, 1987/89-1999/2000
1988-89 1989-90 1990-91 1991-92 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999-2000
Encineers
Est. dearnd     3,092   3,240  3,396   3,559  3,730  3,909   4,096   4,293   4,499   4,715   4,941    5,179
Est. stock      2,700   2,638  2,949   3,052  3,141   3,215   3.274   3,386  3,S20   3,635   3.746   3,853
Supptly
Local            88      88     88      88      88      88      154     176    220    220      220       220
Foreign         131     108    104      92      80      68      56      60       0       0       0        0
attritlon        81      85      88      92     94       96     98      102     106     109     112      116
Not supply      23    2.949  3.0S2        41   L3.1    3.274   3.386  3.20  3.635   37          38       3.958
Not suppy as
X oTdd:          92      91      90      a8      86      84      83     82      81       79      78       76
Technicans
Est. demad      6,370   6,810  7,279   7,782   8,319  8,893   9,506  10,162  10,863  11,613  12,414   13,271
Est. stock      5,470   5,686  s,959   6,245   6,577  6,875   7,207   7,552   7,888   8,216   8,565    8,906
f Peat         353      41S    435    488    462    504    525         525    525      555     555      555
Foreign           0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0
attritIon       137    142    149    156    164    172    180    189    197            205     214       223
Net supply 5M  o86 L1 6LU L6  7.207 7Z.5M L.56 8A   L90  ?A23
Net supply as
Xofdsiusnd:      89      88      86      85      83      81      79     78      76       74      72       70



43ANNEX
Page 7
The Determination of Requirements by Program
16.      The purpose of the projections was to determine the appropriate scope
of the project.  The information base was not adequate to enable projections
of demand and supply by program with acceptable degrees of accuracy. Rather a
qualitative analysis was undertaken of the proposed enrollment plan. The
current and proposed steady state output plan is shown in Table 3 by program.
In designing the project maximum flexibility has been built into the
facilities to be constructed should anticipated trends in the demand for
manpower change.  As a specific component of the project it has been decided
to establish within the IOE a capacity to monitor trends in the labor market
for engineering manpower and conduct tracer studies. Clearly, adequate
planning requires information on (i) the occupational demand for skills,
(ii) levels of vacancies, (iii) changes in relative wages (particularly in
the private sector, and (iv) the periods of unemployment and underemployment
of technical manpower upon graduation. Better labor market information will
assist potential students make program choices, and help graduating students
with career choices. The IOE should develop a sense of responsibility for
graduating students--a complete reliance on occasional manpower forecasts by
external agencies tends to relieve the Institute of this responsibility.
Tracer studies and job evaluations will enable more attention to be given to
the needs of employers (government departments and major private sector firms)
and professional organizations.
Table 3: CURRENT AND STEADY STATE OUTPUTS PER YEAR BY PROGRAM
Current      Steady           X of
1987/88      state        Total output
A. Degree
Civil                                     88           88               40
Mechanical                                 0           44               20
Electrical                                 0           44               20
Electronics                                0           22               10
Architecture and Rural Planning            0           22               10
Total Degree                           88         220              100
B. Technician fb
Civil                                    210          262              47
Mechanical                                46           94               17
Electrical                                17          115               21
Electronics                               17           42                8
Architectural and Rural Planning          63           42                8
Total Technician                      353         555 Le           100
La Achieved in 1996/97.
A   Technical training output will reach 88X capacity by 1992.
/c Achieved in 1997/98 with phasing out of trade training at Pokhara.



A .. 4
44                                                    Page I of 2
NEPAL
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Suffary of Technical Assistance Estimates
Quantity   Total Cost      CIDA          SDC
P        NY         USS           USS          USS
1. PULCHOWI  DEGREE PROGRAM                                  ---    --------   ----------        .-.-         ..
(i)      Fellowship Training - Foreign
Senior Fellow Exchange                        5       2.50       43,000        43,000
Ph.D.'s:  - Electrical                        2       6.00
- Electronics                      2        6.00
- Mechanical                       4       12.00
- Civil                             1      3.00
- Applied Mathematics              2        6.00
- Unallocated                      1       3.00
Total Ph.D.'s                      12      36.00      720000      720,000
M.Sc.1s:  - Electrical                        5      10.00
- Electronics                      3        6.00
- Nechanical                       6       12.00
- Architecture                     1       2.00
- UnalLocated                      1        2.00
Total M.Sc.fs                      16      32.00      640,000      640,000
Dip.      - Lab Technicians                   8       8.00      160,000       160,000
- Librarian                        1        1.50       30,000       30,000
Total Dip.                         9        9.50
Cii)      Fellowship Training - Regional
Ph.D.0s:  - Applied Mathematics               1       3.00
- Physics                          1       3.00
- chemistry                        1       3.00
Total Ph.D.$s                      3        9.00       90,000                     90,000
M.Sc.'s:  - Electrical                        6      12.00
- Electronics                      2       4.00
- Mechanical                       6       12.00
- Architecture                     1       2.00
- Unallocated                      1       2.00
Total M.Sc.#s                     16       32.00      410,000                    410,000
Dip.      - Lab Technicians                  12      12.00      120,000                    120,000
- Reswurce Center Dir.             1        1.00       10,000                     10,000
Total Dip.                        13       13.00
(iii)     Foreign Specialists
-  Prof. for instructional assistance           13      13.00    1,092,000    1,092,000
- Dev. of curriculum, equip., lists,
lab layouts *                                       3.00      234,000      234,000
- Curriculum Dev. - English                      1       0.12        9,000         9,000
- Accreditation visits *                                 0.25       42,200        42,200
Total Foreign Specialists                       14      16.37
Sub-total        83     147.87    3,600,200    2.970,200       630,000
*  The number of short-term specialist for these activities will be determined during inplementation.



45                                                   ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
NEPAL
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Suimary of Technical Assistance Estimates
Quantity   Total Cost       CIDA         SDC
P        MY         USS           USS           USS
83     147.87    3,600,200    2,970,200        630,000
2. IOE MANAGEMENT, ADNINISTRATION, FINANCE STRENGTHENING
(i)  Administrative Fellowships                           3       1.50        33,600       33,600
(ii)  Scheduling Specialist                                1       0.25        24,000       24,000
(iii)  Construction Management Specialist                   1       3.00       450,000                    450,000
(iv)  Architectural Specialist                             1       0.25        88,000                     88,000
(v)  Building Maintenance Specialist                      1       0.50        48,000                     48,000
(vi)  Building Maintenance FelLowship                      1       1.00        20,000                     20,000
(vii)  Aduin. & Management Specialists                      2       1.00        87,000       87,000
(viii)  Project Planring and Evaluation Specialist           1        0.6        76,000                     76,000
(ix)  Technical Assistance Specialist                      1       0.65       115,000                    115,000
Sub-total        12        8.75      941,600       144,600      797,000
3. PULCHOYK-CERTIFICATE PROGRAM
(i)  Fellowships - International                          5       2.50        60,000                     60,000
Cii)  Fellowships - Regional                              15      15.00       *80,000                    180,000
tjii)  Curri. Dev. & Teacher Training Specialists           8       3.60       390,000                    390,000
Sub-total        28        21.1      630,000             0      630.000
4. THAPATHALI-CERTIFICATE PROGRAM
(i)  Fellowships - International                          2       1.00        24,000                     24,000
Cii)  Fellowships - Regior.4                               9       9.00       108,000                    108,000
Sub-total        11       10.00      132,000             0      132,000
5. POKHMARA-CERTIFICATE PROGRAM
(i)  Fellowships - International                          3       1.50        36,000                     36,000
(ii)  Fellowships - Regional                               8       8.00        96,000                     96,000
Sub-total        11        9.50      132,000             0      132,000
TOTAL ESTIMATED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COSTS
(Not including Equipment or Civil Works)                       197.22    5,435,800    3,114,800    2,321,000
TOTAL INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES (C 5X)                             207.08    5,707,590    3,270,540    2,437,050
=3G=        G--GG=   =3=G=33         ===3333==



Enipleerl^e  Tedmnicim   Teorchn    Tchnicime   ftelmerplus T;etdgcln  Teclmic_la   Tecmigclee  StinraerIn  Technicisn  Techncian
bepr..    Certifiest. Certificate Certificate   DOer..    Celbif lst  Certificfte Certificate   ceero.    Certificate  Certificate
Prge        Prcgr       PraW        Prae        Pr c         Praem       Proeam      Prrm        Pran        Praomrs      Program      Total Cost
paldmeek     Pulel A  l,  ThepetU lI  Pears      PiaIdl_.k    PulAeh  I   Thapatheli   Peths,.    PUldajek   mappthaIi   Pokhara       WP      tSu
cuoe         C_qee       CePe       C_oe         Cewes        coup-       coup        ceaps       cop"        CROPu        Campus C_ .I I ol a i m i  ion
Civil Works                   .72         9.2        19.16      29.26                                                          S.1.,        -           -        44.61      5
Furniture                   11.6          1.29        2.64       8.46               -           -                 -             1.60                    -        20.5      0.65
Profemiaml ServIcs           5.69         0.46        0.97        -           2.50        -           -           -            0.1          -           -         9.99    0.41
InernatiaI Felloeships      -            -           -          0.51       40.49         l.t         0.61        0.92         0.6                                  el4.9  1.06
R9egial Fel lawehipa         -            -           -          -           1.75         4.661       2.75        2.44         -            -           -        26.40    0.97
Ltal Training                -            -           -          -           8.61         5.62        1.52        8.90         0.06s        0.06        0.S      14.79    0.61
Loal Special let             -            -           -          -           0.19         0.46        -           -            0.tt         -           -         4.5O    0.18
Foreig Specalists           12.           -           -          -             .01        9.91        -           -            4.45         -           -        62.06    2.6
Ewipmt                      69.05        20.60       25.06      18.64         -           -           -           -            2.2          1.02        1.25    1515.70    6.41
Betk                         -            -           -          -           10.1i   7a.s             2.65        V11          -            -           -        27.6      1.38
Conwmeble Obterlsl           -            -           -          -            -           -           -                         I- 1.6      -             i.1     2.04    0.06
7.4. S_.et Cat                         3.    4LS   06E   10  t    S2N                               L            L           L        t. DE            LiZ   a.U  z. 
bi toe                       1.96         -           0.41       1.24         -           -           -           -            -           -            -         8.64    0.1s
stff Salaries                -            -           -          -            1.62        1.40        0.85        1. S         -                                  4.71    0.19
Obterlals we  Servics        -            -           -          -            1.0?        0.n2        0.2t        0.60         -           -            -         5.10    0.1S
Other                        -            -           -          -           0.67        -            0.1 i       0.85         -                                  1.60    0.07
7.4.1 Reeu I.  at. c.                              N.E        dEa         JU.1         RaW          L          ZZa          AL           1.2?         L.f    in-.    20.3
fl'aical Centilngu  ie      19.69         8.84        4.76       4.74        6.01         1.96        0.56        1.25         1.S0        0.10        0.15      48.64    1.79
Price Continacies           65.94         2.46        8.86       2.62       19.71        4.60         1.27        t.06         1.61        0.06        0.06      65.11    2.11
1v:Tot al Prall ul4ee Cats   3         U           UQ.N       5.2?        ZaIJI        U.          ILM         n.E              !LU                     B     BaE 
Taxe.                       18.t0         1.65        2.99       4.22        0.1U         0.10        0.04        0.10         0.t5        0.01        *0.02    26.00    0.96
F preip  Sedde             11.78        265.6t0      86.26      29.45       120.96      26.44         6.6S       11.76        11.18        1.06         1.29    462.22   17.76



ENREEI  ETI111t PROJEC T
Pro;ect Eamend,turo bw Year and Pursese
(Rupee '000)
ease Caost                                                  Tota I
89/90      90/91      91/92      92/93      93/94     94/95      95/96      96/4t4     Rupee     U$8 00
Faci I itiee Development
Engineering Degree Pregran - Pulchoek Campus     16,100.54   47,S09.70  8D,866.37  57,490.43   2,216.02    387.02    337.02   277.54  20S,134.63  8,441.75
Technician Certificate Program - Pulchoak Campus   9.879.13  14,679.29   9,119.56      -           -         -          -                33,677.98  1,385.93
Technician Certificate Program - Thapathali Campus 13,412.18  29,457.82   5,051.96    57.61       65.84     69.95      69.95    57.61   48,242.93   1,985.31
Technician Certificate Program - Pohara Campus    29,353.05   17,858.78    124.41    174.18      199.06    211.80    211.50    174.18   48,306.67   1,987.53
Subtotel F acsilities Development              ;8.744.91 l09.505.58  95.162.30 57.722.22   2.48Q 92    6S8.47    618.47   S0.33  335.362,21 13.800.91
Staff and Curriculum Develcmment
Engineering Degree Program - Pulchoak Campus      9,758.15   12,676.11   19,223.44  18,005.87   14,103.8S 19,961.56  14,968.18   490.15  109,186.99   4,493.29
Technician Certificate Program - Pulchowk Campus   5,352.11    7,906.18   7,285.59  3,278.62   2,816.87  2,425.83  2,393.61   235.29   31,694.05   1,304.28
Technician Certificate Program - Thapathali Campus 1,446.30    1,703.21    1,576.19   1,476.28    1,186.46    692.26  158.80    82.74    8,322.25    342.48
Technician Certificate Program - Pokhare Campus    2,503.66   4,057.08   3,181.83  2,461.06   2,181.72   1,675.13    912.91   294.85   17,267.73    710.61
Subtotal Staff and Curriculum Development      1,22   26.J42.65   3126704 25.222.84  20.288,1  24.7B.J79  18.433,49  1.102S3  166.471.03  6.850.66
atnacement Develcment
Engineering Degree Program - Pulchoek Campus      9,443.14   3,391.15   3,116.47    839.15      743.02    495.71    419.03   171.17   18,618.82    766.21
Technician Certificate Program - Thapathali Campus  1,070.50     -          -          -           -         -          -        -        1,070.50     44.05
Technician Certificate Program - Pokihar Campus    1,296.34     20.90      20.90      20.90       20.90     22.40      22.40     -        1,424.74     58.63
Sub'7tal Management Development               11.809.98   3,41205   3.137.37   M806            73.92   1518.10     "L4      17.17   21.114.06    86t.89
tatal Bas line Costs                               99.615.10 139260.18  129.566.71 83.804.10  23.RA42  25E891.6 10.408.89  1.783.C3  5.947 29 21-520.48
Physical Contingencies                           8,628,88   12,473.82   11,282.00  7,1S8.62    1,481.96  1,526.85  1,022.82    99.42   43,639.07   1,795.85
Price Contingencies                              2,605.23   10,928.20  16,S.12  14,326.66   8,471.94  7,423.78   6,815.26  1,006.14   64,112.34  2,679.52
TOTAL PROJECT COSS                                110.849.21 162.661.80  157.38a.83 1W5,204.J   3.457,J 2 34-SU.i    27.331.47  2. 60  631.698.7D  2S.e35.83
Taxes                                             6,844.83   10,081.71    5,137.12    759.86     81.66      71.S8     21.14      7.48   23,006.43    948.77
Foreign Exchange                                 62,333.83   98,041.61  112,189.40 90,344.35  22,882.10 28,596.36 20,012.05   174.15  432,224.06  17,787.00
OIf



ANNEX 5
Page 3
48
NEPAL
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ Million)
IDA fiscal        Amount per                  Cumulative                Disbursement
year and           semester                    Amount /a                 Profile  2 /b
semester
IDA      SDC        IDA       2      SDC        2            IDA
1990
1             0.60     1.28       0.60    5.3      1.28    15.0            0
2             0.60     1.28       1.20   11.5      2.56    30.0            0
1991
1             1.09     1.69       2.29   20.1      4.25    49.8            0.5
2             1.09     1.69       3.38   29.6      5.94    69.6            1
1992
1             1.75     0.93       5.13   45.0      6.87    80.5            3
2             1.73     0.93       6.88   60.4      7.80    91.4            5
1993
1             1.64     0.20       8.52   74.7      8.00    93.8            9
2             1.64     0.20      10.16   89.1      8.20    96.1           14
1994
1             0.24     0.10      10.40   91.2      8.30    97.3           22
2             0.24     0.10      10.64   93.3      8.40    98.4           30
1995
1             0.23     0.04      10.87   95.4      8.44    98.9           42
2             0.23     0.04      11.10   97.4      8.48    99.4           53
1996
1             0.12     0.03      11.23   98.5      8.51    99.8           65
2             0.12     0.03      11.36   99.6      8.53   100.0           76
1997
1             0.02     -         11.38   99.8                             84
2             0.02     -         11.40  100.0                             90
/a  Figures may not add due to rounding
/b According to Kabir Ahmed's memorandum of June 17, 1988.



NEPAL
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Area and Unit Capital Costs Comparison for New Ensineering Degree
Facilities
Estimated cost per student place /b
Gross area per          --------  This project --------
student place           Building
This      World Bank       and site                                        World Bank
project    unit data la      works    Furniture   Equipment      Total      unit data
------ (sq m) ---------     ----------------------USS -----------------------------
Academic,         20.6         13.5-31.7        5,019       858         6,152      12,029   7,860-16,517
communal
and admin-
istration
la  Figures shown are the mid-range figures - the first figure is for opost-secondary, non-university
technical, vocational and agricultural institutes (FY81-83)9 and the second figure is for
universities (FY78-80). Data was not given for technical universities programs such as engineering
but this would be expected to be at the upper range of the university figures.
lb  Since the project includes both new and renovation works, costs have been calculated only for the
new degree facilities and student numbers were based on only the additional 568 degree students
rather than the total of 932 degree students.
Sources 'World Bank Unit Area and Unit Costs Estimates in Education Projects' November 1983.
ccI



50
ANNEX 7
NEPAL
ENGINEERING EDUCAJION PROJECT
ImPSnWint        SchedUIS
_M  IS 19  _9"   49  t*2 119  I q          im  I 49  lm
->-- ~~~~~~14  I Igo    490   191f11 1 4   1  19   I1 19  1g                 f     "
I~ ~~~~~~~~~~1111111 1* c               211 1_23411 _ _    11 _ f   133  11213411213111
II WFAC   C           M        l  O   _MB_                  l
0ah%D*GtCftom f
- SW doc wj It  A U      AM
IV) 
U)"cftn k_
*) ThIDal No
-EQLd nwt&Ra ,A A   V4    &   n wV
- oIWtuk OAjiftwn   &cowiss
I SA#n&OMIi*GM I.OIhI
vIIc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)~~~~~
i& IC-NWI                                     mm
"It TmIimm*x.
U) 
- I~~~67ua2w&Ofl~~~~~~~O~~msi-t
Wa*M ft* -_



ANNE"_
51                                 Page 1
NE
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Proiect Management and Imniementation Capability
Existing Capabilities
1.       The project design and implementation activities will be particularly
critical in this project. The project will entail three different levels of
design and construction at three different sites. Implementation will further
be complicated by the need to continue the operation of existing teaching
programs at the three campuses while the renovation and new construction
occurs. Strong project management expertise, therefore, is considered
essential to the successful implementation of this project.
2.       While the basic design and construction capabilities available in the
country are considered appropriate for this project, the local engineering and
construction industry suffers from a lack of expertise in project management,
relating to systematic controls of project scheduling, costing and
construction supervision. Experience with the First and Second IDA Projects
suggests that while basic design services were relatively well handled, there
were serious shortcomings in the coordination of the design and supervision
activities.
3.       Also, the recruitment of senior IOE staff for the PIU and the IECS in
previous projects, while having obvious staff development benefits, has
weakened the IOE's academic staff. This issue will need to be addressed in
the proposed project given the added demands the expansion of the degree
program will place on staff resources, and the objective of the project to
improve academic quality.
Project Implementation Unit
4.       In the previous IOE-IDA projects, the Project Implementation Unit has
been established as a separate semi-autonomous group. In keeping with the
proposed projects objective of strengthening the IOE's capabilities, a
different approach is proposed for this project. It is recommended that the
project implementation functions be performed by a group which is integrated
as a part of the regular organizational structure of the Institute. Staff
responsible for specific implementation functions, such as: the Project
Coordinator, Fiscal Officer, and Education Officer should be assigned to those
operating units with related ongoing responsibilities such as the offices of
Services and Planning, and Associate Dean - Degree Programs. It is felt that
the integration of the project implementation functions with the existing IOE
operating units will facilitate the high degree of staff cooperation and
participation this project will require. It will also ensure that the
expertise and experience gained from the implementation activities will be
transferred to other staff and be available once the project has been
completed for the normal continuing operations of the IOE.



52                                 ANNE  8
Page 2
5.       In order to strengthen the project management capabilities of the
proposed project implementation group, it is recommended that an experienced
technical expert be recruited for the position of 'Construction Management
Specialist". This individual would be responsible for assisting with the
development and administration of appropriate project scheduling, contract
document preparation, cost control and construction supervision procedures
(detailed terms of reference are provided).
6.       Project Design.  The Institute of Engineering Consulting Services
(IECS) has provided the architectural and engineering design services for both
the first and second projects. While the quality of their design work in
these projects has been considered satisfactory, problems have arisen due to
delays in completion of drawings, shortcomings in the construction details and
lack of coordination of site supervision and drawing revisions.
7.       In order to ensure that detailed design and construction can proceed
as early as possible upon effectiveness, the IOE should complete the
preparation of revised master plans and preliminary building designs for all
three campuses not later than March 31, 1989. These plans need to be reviewed
and approved by campus staff.
8.       In order to ensure that appropriate professional design and
supervision services are provided for this project, it is recommended that the
detail design and supervision services be awarded on a competitive bid basis,
from a list of prequalified registered consultants. Special attention should
be given to the credentials and evidence of full-time commitments of key
senior staff in the selection criteria. It is suggested that an objective
third-party agency (such as the UNDP or USAID) as well as the Construction
Management Specialist participate in the evaluation of bids for architectural
services in order to avoid potential claims of conflict of interest or
unfairness in the selection process. For the purposes of time expediency and
for ease of coordination with academic scheduling requirements, some of the
smaller contracts for renovation work could be let without competitive bidding
to the IECS.
9.       Because of the complexity of the equipment procurement requirements,
it is proposed that the PIU use the services of Equipro to manage and
implement the equipment procurement component. Procurement of other goods
would be the responsibility of the PIU Procurement Officer.



53                                 ANNU  9
Page 1
NEPA
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Lumrovement of the IOE's Physical Facilities
IntLr2duction
1.       In support of the project objectives which are: (1) to increase both
the quantity and quality of graduates in engineering Degree and Technician
Programs, and (2) to increase the efficiency of the IOE's operations; the
physical facilities of the IOE, including both facilities and equipment, will
need to be upgraded and expanded. All three campuses of IOE (Pulchowk,
Thapathali, and Pokhara) will be affected.
Adeguacv of Current Facilities
2.       The condition of facilities at the three IOE campuses varies
considerably, depending primarily on their age. Major problems relating to
the physical facilities include; deficiencies in building repair and
maintenance, and worn and, in some cases, inappropriate equipment (primarily
at the Pulchowk and Thapathali Campuses). The Pokhara Campus is new but its
buildings and equipment will need to be modified and expanded to accommodate
the phasing out of the trades programs and increased enrollments for the
Technician Certificate Programs. Problems due to lack of maintenance are
prevalent at Pulchowk and Thapathali whereas at Pokhara building deficiencies
due to poor initial construction will need to be rectified.
3.       Facilities at Pulchowk are all considered structurally sound but the
majority of the buildings are in need of repair. Many of the technician
level laboratories and workshops suffer from a lack of equipment and services.
4.       Thapathali is the campus with the most severe facility deficiencies.
Most buildings are in need of significant repairs and the equipment in the
mechanical machine shop is now 20 years old and an estimated 50X are not
functioning properly.
Implications of Proposed Program Expansion
5.       The proposed expansion of the Degree Programs at the Pulchowk Campus
from one to five disciplines, and an increase in enrollments from 360 to 932
students will require a substantial upgrading of the classroom, laboratory,
library and academic support facilities. Similarly, the expansion of enroll-
ments in the Technician programs at the three campuses will create a need for
some additional buildings and equipment. Inadequacies in existing buildings
and equipment will also need to be corrected at each of the campuses.
6.       The PPU's master plans and preliminary drawings reviewed during the
Appraisal Mission (September 17-October 5, 1988) indicate that the
requirements for new space and equipment can be minimized by increasing the
utilization of existing facilities at all campuses. This will be achieved



54                                 ANNEX 9     
Page 2
through the introduction of a larger percentage of common courses, more
flexible scheduling procedures, larger class sizes for some lecture courses,
and greater shared uses of facilities. Current utilization of laboratory and
workshop facilities at all th-ee campuses is low. The Completion Report of
the IDA First Education Project (February 1987) indicated that laboratory
utilization rates at Pulchowk range from only 3.51 to 11.91. Review of course
schedules for the winter term of 1988 for the technician certificate program
at Pulchowk indicated that, based on actual classrooms scheduled, utilization
was about 651. However, taking into account potential classroom space not
being used (e.g., storage or on loan to other users), utilization efficiency
is 611.
7.       This analysis was based on the current operation schedule of 10:15 am
to 4:55 pm, 5-1/2 days per week, which results in 38 available class
opportunities per room per week. Based on a potential of 42 class hours being
planned for the new project, current use would result in a utilization rate of
about 591. Laboratory utilization ranged from 8 to 381, for an average
utilization per lab of about 151. Improvements in the planning and scheduling
of the new programs are expected to make it possible to attain acceptable
utilization rates in the proposed project of 801 for class rooms and 60-701 in
the labs and workshops.
8.       As a result of the proposed increases in utilization, the planned
increase in the Degree program enrollment of some 2601 (along with its greater
demand for facilities), as well as the planned 171 increase in the Technician
enrollments, will be achieved with only a 341 increase in the academic
building area (13,200 m2 added to existing area of approximately 38,950 m2) at
all three campuses.



55                                 Page 3
Summary of Physical Improvements by Campus
Total new            Total renovations (m2)
Campus                      construction      Light       Moderate      Heavy
(m2)
Pulchowk
Academic facilities            9,200             -       13,400
Student hostel                   500             -            -          700
Staff housing                  1,750             -            -
Other                              -          430             -
Thapathali
Academic facilities            1,693             -        3,935          210
Student hostels                  378                          -
Staff housing                      -
Pokhara
Academic facilities            1,928             -        4,834
Student hostel                   680             -            -
Staff housing                  1,800             -            -
Improved Scheduling
9.       In order to achieve the higher levels of utilization proposed, the
IOE will have to adopt a policy of common access to facilities, versus the
current policy of dedicating the use of one classroom to one class. The more
complex process of scheduling which this policy will entail should be managed
by the central administrative group. To strengthen the capability of this
group, staff should be trained in appropriate scheduling procedures and
computers should be used to simplify these activities. A foreign specialist
will be provided to assist in training the IOE staff in the use of these new
systems and equipment for facilities scheduling. Terms of reference for the
Facilities Scheduling Specialist are provided.
Staff and _tudent Housing
10.      Additional student housing will be provided at Pulchowk, Thapathali
and the Poihara Campus and more staff housing will be built at Pulchowk and
Pokhara Campuses.  Emphasis will be given at the Pulchowk and Pokhara campuses
to the provision of hostel accommodation for girls, which is intended to
facilitate further increases in the enrollment of female students in the
future.



56                                 Page 4
Imgroved Maintenance
11.      Clean, well finished and well equipped buildings are essential for
creating a working environment that is conducive to a high standard of
academic achievement. Academic quality at the IOE has been adversely affected
by inadequate provisions for both building and equipment maintenance. The
proposed new developments for the IOE would include substantial improvements
to the management, staffing and funding of maintenance operations in order to
prevent rapid deterioration of building and equipment in the future (see
Annex 10).



57                                  ANNEX 10
Page 1
NEPAL
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Building and Eguipment Maintenance
Existing Maintenance Operations
1.       Current levels of maintenance at the IOE' s campuses are inadequate,
which has led to premature deterioration of buildings and equipment. The poor
maintenance is also felt to be a contributing factor to problems of academic
quality. The untidy buildings and inoperable equipment must cause frustration
for staff and students and lower the attitudes towards academic achievement
and excellence.
2.       The inadequacies of the IOE's maintenance operations are a result of:
(a) the exclusion of the maintenance function as a main component in the
Institute's organizational structure;
(b) severely limited funding allocations;
(c) lack of qualified staff; and
(d) the absence of any appropriate maintenance programs and procedures.
3.       Not all the building deficiencies, however, are the fault of
inadequate maintenance. Many can be attributed to poor initial construction
(e.g., the new hostel buildings at Pulchowk and throughout the Pokhara
campus). These defects, which were not corrected at the time of construction,
have added to the maintenance problems. The combination of these initial
construction defects and the shortage of financial and human resources
available for maintenance will, in time, shorten the "life-expectancy" of the
IOE's capital investments. Fortunately, the majority of the IOE's facilities
are relatively new and corrective measures can still be made at reasonable
costs.
4.       Maintenance of laboratory equipment is also a major problem.  The
Completion Report of the First IDA Project indicates a serious shortage of
trained laboratory technicians at Pulchowk (only 8 out of a total of 51
designated lab technician positions have been filied). The situation as
appraised in October 1988 had not improved, with many of the positions still
vacant and only 2 of the 12 staff in the Civil Degree program considered to be
properly qualified lab technicians. The lack of qualified technicians has
resulted in inadequate maintenance and repair of the lab equipment and
workshop machines. In those cases where there are qualified technicians in
place, no regular equipment maintenance programs and procedures have yet been
established.



58
AMN 10
Page 2
Reguired Improvements
5.       The level and quality of maintenance must be substantially improved
in the future in order to ensure the protection of the current and proposed
capital investments in facilities, and to provide a physical environment
conducive to high academic standards. To minimize future maintenance problems
associated with poor construction of new buildings, special attention should
be given to strengthening construction management and supervision capabilities
for the proposed project. A regular maintenance plan and work program should
be established for the general facilities and preventative maintenance program
should be developed and implemented for all building systems and equipment.
6.       Past recurrent budget allocations for maintenance are clearly
inadequate and must be substantially increased if any realistiz level of
preventive maintenance is to be achieved. Current maintenance allocations at
the IOE amount to 14.1 NRP per square meter of building area. It is proposed
to more than double this amount to 32.4 NRP per square meter for the total new
building area. This increase would be made in increments over the duration of
the project.
7.       The expansion of the Degree Program will require a substantial
investment in new, relatively sophisticated equipment.  Appropriately
qualified lab and workshop technicians must be provided to ensure proper
operation and maintenance of this equipment.
8.       The IOE has prepared a Maintenance Management Plan to address the
issue of maintenance. (Maintenance Management Plan for Institute of
Engineering. Tribhuvan University, Institute of Engineering Project
Preparation Unit P.B. Shrestha, P.N. Maskey, September 1988.) The Plan
acknowledges the severity of the current problems and proposes very general,
but reasonable, recommendations for improvement. The proposed Plan, however,
lacks sufficient detail to provide an adequate plan of action for the
implementation of an appropriate new maintenance program. The plan only
includes a sample maintenance program for the D block at Pulchowk, but lacks
such detail for the entire Pulchowk campus and for the other two campuses.
This required detail should be provided in the final version of the plan,
which should be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1988.
9.       The proposed project will, therefore, provide support in the form of
both technical and financial assistance to help the IOE strengthen its
maintenance capabilities. Such support would include:
(a) a revised organizational structure to include a specific maintenance
group and clear lines of responsibilities for this function within
the senior management structure;
(b) revised recurrent budgeting to include funding for an appropriate
maintenance program. The proposed project would include increased
funding assistance for this component, designed on a graduated scale
over the project period to assist the IOE in meeting these additional
recurrent costs;



59
ANNE 10
Page 3
(c) the development and implementation of a specific program of general
maintenance and preventative maintenance policies and procedures for
each campus, that will include improvements in the recruitment and
training of staff. The proposed project should include the provision
of a specialist in "Building Maintenance", who would assist the IOE
in design and implementing such a maintenance program, as well as
international fellowship training for the Director of Maintenance and
Technical Services at the Pulchowk campus. (Detailed terms of
reference for the Building Maintenance Specialist are provided).
(d) funding would be provided for fellowship training of 20 lab and
workshop technicians, to provide proper operation and maintenance of
equipment, for the degree program facilities, as well as funds for
additional local training of lab technicians in the certificate
program.
(e) the equipment specifications and tenders would include an initial
supply of spare parts for all major equipment items procured.
(f) the Director of Maintenance and Technical Services and the Building
Maintenance Specialist would develop a preventative maintenance
program and provide training for staff on its implemertation.
(g) specific office, storage ani: workshop space for the maintenance unit
as well as equipment for these areas has been included in the
facilities plans for each campus.



ANNEX 11
60                            Page 1
NEPAL
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Teaching Staff Requirements and TraininR
Introduction
1.       The Institute of Engineering (IOE), Project Preparation Unit (PPU)
undertook an analysis of the number and type (grade and qualifications) of
teaching staff required as a result of the expansion of the enrollment
capacity in the proposed project. The analysis, which included proposals for
staff development/upgrading was presented in the Staff Development Plan of
September 1988. The agreements reached during the appraisal to raise the
student/staff ratio, reduce the allowance for sabbaticals and leave, and
improve other staff utilization criteria changed the number of teachers and
the staff upgrading required during the project. The analysis to determine
the new requirements is presented below.
Teaching Staff Requirement
2.       The PPU determined the number of teachers required for the IOE as a
result of the projected increase in total enrollment from about 1,800 to 2,700
students. The analysis was based on present standards for student teacher
ratio, teaching loads, class size, staff distribution by program and staff
qualifications (Government civil service grade) required by the program. It
also included recommendations for staff development, particularly graduate and
post-graduate fellowships. The analysis indicated that the IOE would have to
recruit more than 60 new teachers and upgrade more than 180 of the existing
282 teaching staff through fellowships.
3.       The analysis was reviewed during appraisal and it was decided to
change the standards for student/teacher ratios, teaching loads, staff
distribution and staff qualifications required. The student/teacher ratio
would be increased from the current 5.6.:1 to 10:1 by the end of the project
(1997-98). In addition it was agreed that the total number of staff as
determined by the 10:1 ratio would be increased by 1OZ to allow for
sabbaticals, secondments, study or other leave. Also, the teaching loads
agreed to during the preappraisal (14 hours/week for lecturers and above and
18 hours/week for instructors) would be used in the analysis. The staff
qualifications required by program would be lowered (e.g. the number of PhD's
required was reduced from less than 90 to 25) on the basis of the teaching
program requirements and the practice and standards in other countries in the
region.
4.       On the basis of the new standards the PPU analysis was revised.  The
revised analysis indicates that the total teaching staff would have to be
increased from the present 282 to 297 staff members by the year 1996-97.  To
upgrade the teaching staff a total of 17e study-years of fellowships (2.5 MY.
post-graduate; 45 KY, PhD; 64 MY, MSc; and 59.5 MY, Adv.Techn.) would be
required for 122 staff members. The detailed criteria for the revision are
listed below and the tables put together for the analysis are attached.
Separate analysis were done for the degree programs and the certificate
programs.



ANNEX 11
61                           Page 2
Standards and Criteria Used
5.       The requirements for new staff identified in this annex would form
the basis for the fellowship and external teaching assistance schedule for the
project. These requirements should be incorporated into the IOE Staff
Development Plan and should be used as a guide in the recruitment, deployment,
and upgrading of IOE graduate teaching staff.
(a) enrollment projections have been taken from the Revised Development
Plan (March 1988);
(b) an overall student/teacher ratio of approximately 10:1 has been used.
Note that for each individual discipline a slightly different ratio
has been applied. These ratios are based on an analysis of projected
teaching commitments, standards in other comparable programs and the
need to use standard group size and round-off staff numbers.
(c) graduate staff allocation in the certificate program departments have
been based on student teacher ratios similar to the corresponding
degree program departments and on the assumption that graduate staff
account for 50% of total teaching staff requirements in the
certificate program.
(d) technical support staff for laboratories and workshops have not been
included.
*e) staff attrition due to resignation, retirement, etc. are not expected
to have an impact on the availability of teachers in view of the
current surplus of staff.
(f)  the projected enrollment figures in the 2nd, 3rd and 4th year (92/93,
93/94, and 94195) appear high. It is assumed that actual enrollment
will be less if stricter academic regulations would be enforced.
Lower enrollment figures would alleviate teaching loads to some
extent and improve opportunities for staff to participate in program
defelopment and teacher training activities.
(g) for the general science area, five PhD fellowships have been included
in the plan. It is recommended that up to four of these be awarded
to prospective staff with engineering qualifications. Two of the
three fellowships in mathematics could be awarded to candidates with
a civil, electrical or mechanical engineering qualification to
specialize in linear algebra (applied math) and in finite element
analysis (numerical methods). The third fellowship would be for
staff specializing in calculus, vector analysis and statistics. The
remaining two fellowships in the science area are intended for the
staff teaching the physics and chemistry classes of the common first
year curriculum (degree program). The senior staff for these
subjects should have basic engineering qualifications (electronics,
chemical, mechanical). The reason for these recommendations is that
the teaching staff should be trained with the objective of enhancing
the engineering focus in the science courses of the degree program.



ANNEX 11
62                          Page 3
Tables                                                                Page No.
1. Lab Section Hours per week with Full Enrollment ..............     4
2.  Section Hours per Week and Staff Requirements,
Full Enrollment ............. ...... ..........................    5
3.  Academic Staff Availability and Requirements (Full
Enrollment) by Qualifications and Discipline ...............    6
4.  Academic Staff Development Schedule, Architecture and
Rural Planning .............................................    7
5. Academic Staff Development Schedule, Civil Engineering .......    8
6. Academic Staff Development Schedule, Electrical Engineering..    9
7. Academic Staff Development Schedule, Electronics Engineering.   10
8. Academic Staff Development Schedule, Mechanical Engineering..   11
9. Academic Staff Development and Recruitment Schedule by
Discipline and Year                   ..    12
10. Academic Staff Development, Fellowship Program       .    .       13



ANNEX 11
63                                          Page 4
Table 1: LAO SECTION HOURS PER WEEK WITH FULL ENROLLMENT
Lob                      Architecture       Civil    Electriceal  Electronics  Mechanical   General
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~T                   Ii
Language                                                                                            0o  80
Computer studio                    2     2      44   44       5   6        26   26     26   26
Drafting                           6     8       6    6       8   8                    84   84
Design studio                    e6    86
Survey                                          15   11
Chemistry                                                                                          la  185
Physics                                                                                            185 185
Materials                          1     1      20   20                                2ff  16
Circuits                                                     15  15        10   10
Measure and control                                           4   4        10   10      a    8
Coamunicatlons                                                             21   21
Microwave                                                                   2    2
Building science                   6     6       8    a       8   8         8    a      8    8
Hydrology                                       12   12
Thermodynamics                                                                         19   19
Machine shop                                     4    4       4   4         4    4      6    5
Electric power                                               12  12
Project labs                                    24   24      12  12        12   12      12   12
Electric machines                                             6   6
Fluid mechanics                                 18   18                                21   21
Mechanics and structures          8      8       6    6                                14   14
Geotech                                         18   18
Total                      104   104      170  170      69  69       88   88    158  168       67  57



ANNEX 11
64                                        Page 5
Table 2: SECTION HOURS PER WEEK AND STAFF REqUIREMENTS, FULL ENROLUMENT
Item                    Architecture      Civil    Electrical  Electronics  Mechanical  General
T-r I         T   I       T            T   I    -T   IT          -rT I
Labs                           104   104     170  170     69  69        so   68    153  158     57  67
Lectures (term)                 14            g8           18           18          18         115
Tutorials                              2            14          9             9           9         76
Shared course                                  6   12       4   8        8    4      4    a      -   -
Total                        118   106     212  198      91  6S      109  101    175  170    172 182
Nuber of staff       14          8             16           7            8          18          12
+ 18                  6           11          6              5           9          7
Total                              14               28        12           18         22         19
Enrol lement                      102             864        182           91        182        921
10:1                               10              28        1S             9         16
Recommended Totel Staff
Requirement                      14              28         16           18         19         18
T - Teacher.
I - Instructor.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
65
Table 8: STAFF AVAILABILITY AN STAFF REqUIREMENTS (FULL ENROLLMENT) BY
QUALIFICATIONS AND DISCIPLINE
Staff                    Architecture  Civil  Electrical  Electronics  Mechanical General
Total required                 14         28        16           13           19        is
Qualification  PhD              2          7         4           a             4         6
targets       USc              9         18        10           8            12         6
Bsc             a          8          2           2            8          2
Available      PhD (Pk)         2          7         2            1            -         -
(All programs)     (Ti)        -           -         -           -             -
(DUP)        -          -         -            -            _
MSc (Pk)       11 (7) /a  88          1           8            6
(TI)       -           -         -            -            6
(DIP)       -           2         1            2            a
BSc (Pk)       10         18          6           4            _        _
(TI)        -          _         _            _            _       _
(DIP)        1          6         -            -            -       -
e Five are first degrees (Russia).
Pk - Pulchowk
Ti - Thapetall
DIP - Oharan and Polchara



ANNEX 11
66                                        Page 7
Table 4: STAFF DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE, ARCHITECHTURE AND RURAL PLAWIN0
Academic year                 1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97
Projected enrol last                                   24        47       69       91      102       102
Basic staff requlred                                    8         7       10       12       14        14
Certificate program enrollment      201      177      155      184       184      184      184      184
Graduate stIff assigned              18       12       10         9        9        9        9         9
Total graduate *t.ff available       28       28       28        28       28       28       28        28
Do iciency
Note:  No overall deficiency determined.  However, two dditional USc are recommnded In view of program
concentration and presnt staff qualifications.  One external TA In 1995/96.



ANNEX 11
67                                     Page 8
Table 6: STAFF DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE, CIVIL ENCINEERINO
Academic yexr                  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/98  1998/94  1994/96  1996/06  1906/97
Projected enrollment               884      864      844      884     B84       804      864      864
Boolc staff required                28       20       28       28       28       20       28       20
Certificate program enrollment    070       674      488      402      402      402      402      402
GrOduate staff assigned             89       29       24       20       20       20       20       20
Total graduate staff available     65        58       68       58       58       68       58       68
Deficlency
Note: No overall deficiency determined. In order to strengthen hydrology area, add one PhD. One
external TA in 1995/96.



ANNEX 11
68                                         Page 9
Table 6: STAFF DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE, ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Academic year                   1999/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/96  1995/98  1996/97
Projocted enrollment                                   48       94       1B8      102      192       182
Ba.ic staff required                                    6         9       12       16      1        16
Certificate program enrollment      56        83      109      134       134      184      134      134
Graduato etaff assigned               a        4        6        6         6        6        6        6
Total graduate staff available        a        a        a        8         8        8        8         8
Deficiency                                    -4        2         7       10       14       14        14
Additional staff:  PhD                -        -        -         -        1        2        2         2
(Cumulative)       mSc               -         -        2        6        7        10       10       10
USc               -        -         -        1        2        2         2        2
Recruit BSc                           2        8a  B    1         4        2
Start in MSe program                  2        4 /b     1         a        1
Finish MSc program                                      2        4         1        8        1
Start in PhD program                           1 L     1
Finish PhD program                                                         1        1
Recruit USc
Tech. Assist. USe/PhD                                   1        1         1        1
SP From Certificate Program.
Includen one from Certificote Program.



ANNEX 11
69                                        Page 10
Table 7: STAFF DEELOPMENT SCHEDULE, ELECTRONICS ENOINEERIN
Academic year                  1999/90  1990/91  1991/02  1992/98  1998/04  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97
Projected enrollment                 -        -       24       47       09       91       91       91
Basic staff required                 -        -        8        6        9       18       18       18
Certificate program enrollment      es       e8      109      184      184      184      184      184
Oraduate staff aseigned              4        6        7        9        9        9        9        9
Total available                      8        8        8        9        8        8        8        8
Deficiency                                             2        7       19       14       14       14
Additional staff: PhD                -        -        -        1        1        2        2        2
(Cumulative)      MSc               -         -        1       4         5       6         6       6
BSc               -        -        1        2        4        6        6        6
Recruit BSe                                 2.1        2        2        2        2
Start in MSc program                          a        11
Finish USc program                                              8        1        1
Start in PhD progrm                                    1        1
Finish PhD program                                                                1        1
Recruit USc                                            2        1
Tech. Assist. MSc/PhD                                          1        1        1
/a For certificate program.
/b One from certificate program.



ANNEX 11
70                                        Page 11
Table 8: STAFF DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE, MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Academic year                   1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  I992/98  1998/94  1994/96  19M/98  1996/97
Projected enrollment                  -        -       24       47        98      188      1SO      182
Basic stuff required                                    3        6        10       14       1S       19
Certificate program enrollment       67       67       67       67        67       67       67       87
Graduate staff assigned               4        4        4        4         4        4        4        4
Total available                       4        4        4        4         4        4        4        4
Deficiency
a        5       10       14        16       19
Additional Staff:  PhD                                  1         1        2        a        3        4
(Cumulative)       MSc                                  2        8        0         8        9       12
Bae                                           1        2        a         4        8
Recruit Bsc                           8      2+1 Le     8        8         2        2        2
Start In MSc program                  8        2        8        2         1        1                  1
*Fifilsh MSc program                                      a        2        a        2         1        1
Start In PhD program                           1 /b     1         1        1
Finish PhD program                                                         1        1        1        1
Recruit MSc                                                                1                           2
Tech. Assist. MSc/PhD                                  1        1         1        1
/a For certificate program.
;b From certificate program.



ANNEX 11
71                                        Page 12
Table 9: STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND RECRUITMENT SCHEDULE BY DISCIPLINE AND YEAR
Academic year            1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1902/93  1998/94  1994/95  1995/98   1996/97
MSc study
XsrcTT;cEure                 2       2
Civil
Electrical                   2       6         6        4        4        1
Electronics                          a         4        2        1
Mechanical                   a       5         5        6        a        2        1
Unallocated                                                      1        2        1
Total MSc                  7      16        14       11        9        6        2
PhD Study
Architecture
Civil                        1       1         1
Electrical                           1         2        2        1
Electronics                                    1        2        2        1
Mechanical                           1         2        3        a        2        1
General: math                1       2         8                 1
physics                    1         1        1
Chemistry          1       1         1
Unallocated                                                      1        1        1
Total PhD                  3       7        11       10        8        4        2
BSc recruited
ElectOrcal                           8         1        4        2
ElectronTcs                          8         2        2        2        2
Mechanical                   8       a         8        a        2        2        1
Total BSc recruited        8       9         8        9        6        4        1
MSc recruited
Electronics                                    2        1
Mechanical                                                       1                           2
Total MSc recruited                          2        1        1                           2
Ext. Teach. Assist.
All disciplines                                2        a        8        8        2



ANNI;zA 11 
72                                 Page 13
Table 10: ACADEMIC STAFF DEVELOPMENT, FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
Discipline            MSc            PhD            MSc-PhD
(2 yr)         (3 yr)
Architecture            2
Civil                                   1
Electrical             11               2                 1
Electronics             5               2                 1
Mechanical             12               4                 3
General                                 5
Unallocated             2               1
Total                  32              15                 5
Foreign                16              12                 5
Region                 16               3



73                               Page 1
NEPAL
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Management and Administration of the Institute of Engineering
Implementation Guidelines
Introduction
1.       The need for a new management organization has been discussed with
Tribhuvan University (TU) and the Institute of Engineering (IOE). It was
agreed that a new organization would be established along the lines suggested
in the Management Plan prepared by the PPU. This Annex provides additional
suggestions for the structurr. and functions for the proposed organization with
an emphasis on administrative support services which have not been given
sufficient attention.
Background
2.       As an Institute of Tribhuvan University, the IOE is governed by the
policies, rules and regulations of the University. Tribhuvan's management
organization (University Council, Executive Council and Academic Council) and
administrative offices provide central management support and control for the
almost 70 university campuses located throughout the country. While the
university has grown rapidly (enrollment more than tripled from 16,700 in 1975
to 55,300 in 1985) the management and administrative organization of TU have
not developed at the same pace. Also, very little delegation of management
responsibilities has taken place. The University is finding it increasingly
more difficult to provide timely and appropriate management support to the
campuses and institutes such as the IOE.  For that reason, Tribhuvan is
considering a degree of decentralization of management and the technical
institutes, including the IOE, have been given autonomy in some aspects of
academic and personnel management. To cope with the additional demand on
management resulting from the expansion of IOE's operations in the proposed
project and to improve academic and administrative efficiency, the University
would have to agree to delegate more managerial responsibilities to the IOE
along the lines proposed in the Report on Autonomy prepared by the Project
Preparation Unit (PPU).
3.       The IOE management (and administrative) organization is similar to
that of the University (faculty board and academic committees) and is largely
centralized in the Office of the Dean. As is the case in the university,
IOE's management has not developed at par with the growth in enrollment. The
expansion of operations in the proposed project will make it necessary to
strengthen the existing management organization. Management responsibilities
for academic and administrative affairs would need to be separated and
assigned to qualified (or specially trained) academic and administrative staff
respectively. To encourage academic leadership, management responsibility
would have to be delegated to three Associate Deans to be appointed for the
degree programs, the certificate programs and for planning and services
(administration). To involve the faculty in decision making, management



ANNEX 12
74                                Page 2
responsibilities need to be further delegated to the Heads of (academic)
Departments and the Directors for planning and services.
Management Organization
4.       The new management organization is shown in the attached chart.  The
following objectives have been incorporated: separation of administrative and
academic functions; and, separation of degree and certificate program
jurisdictions. An effort has been made to organize support services according
to function, e.g. administrative, technical. The Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) is functionally integrated in the organization and the Executive
Director for Planning has been changed into an Associate Dean for Services and
Planning as was agreed during appraisal.
5.       In addition, a coordinating committee has been included under the
Associate :ean--Degree Program. The certificate program management has a
similar committee. These coordinating committees, chaired by the respective
Associate Deans, would have a membership made up of department heads in the
degree stream, and campus directors in the certificate stream. The
coordinating committees would be advisory to the Associate Deans, particularly
in academic matters, provide a coordinating function in program development
and management, and would contribute to collective action and leadership in
the Institute.
Administrative and Service Functions
6.       The IOE would have to develop distinct units, properly staffed, to
manage the following administrative and service functions:
(a) Financial Services--concerned with budgets, accounting, payroll,
purchasing, trust funds, and financial data. To the extent practi-
cal, these services should be centralized at Pulchowk. A branch
office at Pokhara is desirable.
(b) Personnel Services--concerned with the non-academic staffing in the
Institute: terms of employment of technical, clerical and profes-
sional support staff. Again, this unit would be centered at Pulchowk
with a branch office at Pokhara.
(c) Maintenance and Technical Services--in charge of maintenance and
repairs, general supplies, inventories, transportation, minor
construction projects (in-house construction), and campus security.
The unit could include responsibility for supervision of
Instructional Equipment listed separately below. This type of
service is required on each campus.
(d) Student Services--to provide counseling for students and be respon-
sible for on-campus food services, first aid, housing, and to assist
with recreational and cultural programs and functions for the benefit
of students. Again, this type of service is required on each campus
according to local conditions.



Anim,^ 12
75                               Page 3
(e) Academic Programs and Records--an office which maintains students'
academic records and can assess performance and progress under the
Institute's academic regulations. This type of office is required
for:  ti) the degree programs at Pulchowk; (ii) the certificate
programs at Pulchowk and Thapatali; and (iii) the certificate and
trade programs at Pokhara.
In addition, a central office is proposed to deal systematically with
the matters of admissions, examinations, and aspects of financial
support for registered students, i.e. tuition fee stipends, other
stipends, awards and scholarships.
(f) Computer Services--a unit responsible for the management and
operation of IOE's common computer facilities and related equipment.
Computer Services would also assist with training of personnel using
the equipment, and would provide software support. The unit would
serve all campuses.
(g) Library Services--this is a standard unit responsible for books and
periodicals that constitute the library holdings. A main library is
envisaged at Pulchowk, with branch libraries at the other campuses,
all administered by a Chief Librarian.
(h)  Printing--suitable printing and copying equipment is needed in the
Institute. Sophisticated facilities are now common and would likely
be acquired in this project. The facilities should be managed and
operated by personnel with appropriate skills. All photocopying
equipment should probably be the responsibility of a central office.
vi) Instructional Equipment--equipment required for learning and teaching
purposes would be managed by this unit. Most of the equipment is
portable, e.g. projectors, PA systems, VCRs and monitors. The office
would be responsible for stocking and servicing the components,
making them available as required, and operating some of the
equipment when used in teaching.
(j) Bookstore--this is clearly a separate operation that should be
handled by business people. The bookstore has a role to play in the
Institute by providing educational reference texts and learning
material that is particularly suitable, and available to students at
minimum cost. It should allow trading-in and selling of second-hand
textbooks. Also, the bookstore provides a mechanism whereby the
academic staff can market scholarly and professional material.
(k)  Liaison and Information Analysis--as part of a management information
system, this unit would be responsible for general technology and
information transfer (external), liaison with government, industry,
and professional organizations. It would monitor certain Institute
operations, relevant market trends, and would advise regarding
manpower needs, special training requirements, and market
developments to which the Institute might respond. This function
would be incorporated into the Office of Manpower Development which
will be established in the project.



ANNEX 12
76                               Page 4
(1) Campus Planning--this unit would be concerned primarily with the
planning and construction of new physical facilities, major
renovation projects, plant upgrading, and primary technical services
and facilities.
Technical Services
7.       The need to establish a separate maintenance and technical services
unit is based on the following considerations. In engineering universities
and colleges, a great deal of laboratory equipment, instruments, testing
facilities, mechanical, electrical and electronic control systems are acquired
and used. In addition, aids, data-handling systems, and digital computers are
used for scientific or academic purposes and increasingly for administrative
services. The maintenance and servicing of much of this equipment is beyond
the capability of regular technical staff. In many universities, service
contracts are widely used next to specialized technical services units. The
need for effective maintenance and repair of equipment is expected to grow
substantially in the IOE. It would therefore be necessary to appoint a
Director of Maintenance and Technical Services who would manage a number of
technical staff specifically for Technical Services.
Library Services
8.       Library services is another area where a separate management function
is required. A Chief Librarian should head the library services and manage
the library, including branch libraries. He or she should interact with
Tribhuvan University's library service and library administration. The IOE
would also need effective library facility at Thapatali and Pokhara.
Management Information System (MIS)
9.       The proposed management information system (Liaison and Market
Studies, Information Analysis) would be established and report primarily to
the senior management of the Institute. The MIS unit would be handled by a
manager who could also be responsible for Campus Planning.



77                                                                   ANNEX 12
r | B b1, | i t P^8e 541
Xji  ni aii 0It  1111 
lii                  S    *L.. 
ii                  I
,i  _i _,I



ANNEX 13
78                                 Page 1
NEPAL
ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents in Proiect File
Nepal Second Education Project (Technical and Vocational Training) Staff
Appraisal Report No. 3558-NEP, Education and Agricultural Institution
Division, South Asia Projects Department, The World Bank.
Tribhuvan University, Institute of Engineering, An Introduction, Lalitpur
1987.
N. McEvers, Manpower Implications of Education and Training Development in the
Kingdom of Nepal, The International Development Association, May 1983.
Nepal: Policies for Improved Growth and Alleviating Poverty. World Bank
1988.
Educonsult Ltd and the University of Calgary, Engineering Education
Development Project, A Feasibility Study, Institute of Engineering,
Tribhuvan University, Nepal, May 1987,
Ten Year Development Plan for IOE, Institute of Engineering Consultancy
Services, Kathrnandu, Nepal, September 1985.
Maintenance Management Plan for Institute of Engineering, Tribhuvan
University, Institute of Engineering, Project Preparation Unit,
P.B. Shrestha; P.N. Marky September, 1988.
Maintenance Inventory Work Report for Project Preparation Unit, 1988,
Tribhuvan University, Institute of Engineering Pulchowk Campus.
A Report on the Design Proposal for Pulchowk and Thapathali Campuses,
September 1, 1988, PPU Institute of Engineering, Pulchowk, Lalitpur
Reports and Proposal Drawings, Pokhara Campus Development Project Institute of
Engineering, August 1988.
Progress Reports on Rules and Regulations, Institute of Engineering, June
1984.



80-                                       82-                                         4                                         86-                                        88e
te0.    S,A,                                                                                                                                                   3
4)  N             /                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEPAL
U ( .....9 Y  > .......... ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
{ t FARWESTERN
,jjv   < E  T I                                                                                                         U      ln   {~." hstutte 0 Engineering
gt   tg      X         2T           MID WESTERN                                                                                 n        'iu   of Enhe n
*  National Capita
-           '     ~    -eeoe . Region  l'.w_)rie
4%       (s          -sQ,   }^3L,,  ,                                     f                   -                              -*-    Adminartive Zone Bounoaries
\    .}   >2    B H E R I  _                                                                   . -   Int.rnatk ion  Bowunaios
N..                                                      W         m                        / *'    J'ESTERN                                                2
G   A   N  A     B  A     MA1 K
\$       9   ~~R  A _ P  T I                         N     e Pokhoro   a  
fex<,  /   \  dr   campus  j J  4    1   \*U(  >cmu2
\o-9<t * 8 r%= B AJ G."~~~~~~~~~~~ulcho'wlcampus(>/0s 
t u m 5 I N IThapatFhbIi~
4 r~ s   <C campuN >AL~~ t    #   EASTERN
/                                   \       4        ,)         t         <            i   tt; 5 H 4vps m 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'V                  0                    *           6K  ,PS                              EC HI
929   49                 /     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ =*~~~*   *~~~~*~~*%~~       ~       ~        -                   AA~~ECHI
0       20       40      60       so0      IC0                    1                                        *    */ K O4 TSS
4,,4g11*..1,4050 .I 0,p0,, 004,00..4 4 . 0
f 8Lo0e0        82'                                          54                                          8V                                            8
ftl Mop_n      tytWS  l*'fJ lfectWd-0 Ff %*Wa, &_-J-Jtff*
F11 rD-h         1       W O'. bc.%.  V-l7 uW don w8 x Ire
so S0 2'                                                                                 84                                           e                                            e



