                                     AIDE MEMOIRE
                                     Country GHANA
                             Implementation Support Mission for
                             Land Administration Project (Credit)
                                   April 27 – May 13, 2011


1. INTRODUCTION AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

1.1     A joint Development Partners/Government of Ghana (GoG) team carried out an
implementation support mission (ISM) of the Land Administration Project (LAP) from April 27
– May 13, 2011. The mission reviewed implementation progress for LAP, discussed the
preparation of the implementation completion report, transitioning from LAP 1 to LAP 2 and the
fulfillment of effectiveness conditions for LAP2. The team also assisted the Government
counterparts to finalize the project implementation manual (PIM) for LAP2 and also develop a
road map for transitioning to LAP 2 during a two day retreat.

1.2   The mission was led by C. Annor-Frempong, Senior Rural Development Specialist and
Task Team Leader and included Frank Byamugisha, Operations Adviser and Land Specialist
(AFTAR), Jonathan Lindsay, Senior Counsel (LEGEN), Beatrix Allah-Mensah, Social
Development Specialist (AFTCS), Adu Gyamfi Abunyewa Procurement Specialist (AFTPC), K.
O. Gyasi Agricultural Economist, (AFTAR), R. Degraft-Hanson (Financial Mgmt Specialist
(AFTFM), and R. Ampadu, Program Assistant AFCW1. Loree Semeluk Second Secretary,
CIDA also participated in the mission.

1.3     The mission would like to acknowledge the support and cooperation of the GoG and in
particular, the LAPU for the excellent arrangements made during the mission (See Annex 1 for
people met during the mission).



2. CONTEXT

2.1      After a slow start and realizing its complexity, LAP was restructured including its
development objective and its components. The project development objective (PDO) of the
restructured LAP is to undertake land policy and institutional reforms and key land
administration pilots for laying the foundation for the sustainable decentralized land
administration system that is fair, efficient, cost effective and ensures land tenure security. Three
broad activities are being undertaken towards attaining the PDO, namely: legal reforms,
institutional reforms and piloting a number of initiatives. Details of these activities include:
systematic land title registration, continuous operating reference stations, customary boundary
demarcation (CBD), intelligent scanning, ascertainment of customary laws, inventory of state
lands, property revaluation, decentralization of deeds registration, creation of unique parcel
numbering system, development of planning guidelines and standards and community-based
planning models, the establishment of customary land secretariats, and the design of a land
information system and drafting of relevant legislative proposals. Since its restructuring, the
pace and progress in implementation have increased considerably.

2.2     To ensure an orderly closure of LAP1 and a seamless transition to LAP2, agreements
were reached during the July 2010 mission related to: (a) the completion of the legal reforms; (b)
furthering the institutional reforms by engaging consultants to support the development of a 5-
year business strategy and plan, a manpower plan, job evaluation, recruitment process,
performance management and staff development for the Lands Commission (LCs) and in some
cases for the OASL and TCPD; (c) the completion of all outstanding pilot activities; and (d) a
possible request for the extension of the closing date for the project. This mission has been able
to review progress in implementing these agreements.

3. KEY FINDINGS/PROGRESS OF IMPLEMENTATION

3.1     The project has supported the drafting of three interrelated legislative proposal: (i) a bill
establishing the new Lands Commission, which was adopted by Parliament in 2008; (ii) a Lands
Bill; and (iii) a Land Use and Planning Bill. The preparation of the Land Use and Planning Bill
has progressed well and the Bill is likely to be tabled before parliament by June 30, 2011. As for
the Lands Bill, while its preparation has produced several drafts and a few rounds of
consultations, it is now certain that its preparation and processing will roll over into LAP 2 as
the consultant engaged to facilitate the process was unable to ensure completion of high quality
drafts of the Bill and the reaching of consensus on certain key issues during the contract period.
The project has supported also the preparation of strategic plans and business re-engineering
processes. The preparation is on-going and will continue under LAP2 together with the second
phase of the associated LIS. The closing date for the project was extended by 6 months from
December 2010 to June 2011 to transition smoothly with LAP2 which is expected to become
effective by June 30, 2011.

Achievement of Project Development Objectives

 3.2 The major accomplishments of the project since inception of implementation in 2004 are:
(i) the passage of the Lands Commission Act 767 (2008) by Parliament on October 29, 2008.
The Act seeks to merge four land sector agencies into a single entity – The Lands Commission
(LC); (ii) decentralization of deeds registry to all the nine regional capitals, effectively bringing
the registration of deeds closer to the clients and reduction of the turnaround time for registering
deeds from 36 months to 2.5 months; (iii) the establishment/strengthening of Customary Lands
Secretariat (CLS) in thirty seven traditional authority jurisdictions – exceeding the 30 CLS target
of the project; (iv) completion of inventory for state acquired lands in 29 districts in addition to
Central and Greater Accra regions. Also completed is the first phase of the Geodetic Reference
Network (GRN) covering the golden triangle of Accra, Kumasi and also the first phase of the
Land Information System (LIS), development and piloting of the three tier land use planning
models in six (6) pilot districts of Dangbe west (Dodowa), Ejisu-Juaben (Ejisu), Awutu (Kasoa),
Wasa Amenfi West (Asankragua), Savelugu Nanton (Savelugu) and Ahanta West (Agona
Nkwanta).

Assessment of Implementation Performance

3.3    Out of a total approved Credit of SDR 15.1 million, the project has disbursed SDR 13.8
million (88%) as of April 30, 2011. The balance of SDR 1.3 million is committed to completing
the remaining activities.

3.4    The project has performed satisfactorily as regards compliance to financial covenants
through the regular and timely submission of financial reports and annual audits. The 2009
audited reports were received on August 3, 2010 and the auditors issued an unqualified opinion.

Procurement:

3.5     Given that the project is just about to close, the mission reviewed the status of all
outstanding project procurement activities to ensure that all goods contracts will be delivered and
consultancy assignments completed and reports submitted before the project closing date of June
30, 2011. It was noted that all goods procurement have been fully delivered except for a contract
for the procurement of computers and accessories that was due to be supplied in the first week of
May. For consultancy contracts, three contracts were found to be still in progress, and for these
contracts, draft final reports have been submitted and comments sent by clients to the consultants
for finalization of the reports. The final reports are due by the end of May 2011. Proposals for the
conduct of financial audit of the project for the years 2010 and 2011 are expected by May 10,
2011. It is expected that a contract will be signed by first week of June 2011 and reports on the
2010 financial statement submitted by the end of June 2010. As per the Bank guideline, the
conduct of the final financial audit could be carried out within the grace period of 4 month after
close of the project, thus once the contract is signed before June 30, 2011, disbursement could be
made during the grace period. Generally, there were indications of satisfactory procurement
management function of the project and no problems are foreseen prior to the closure of the
project. The mission gathered information on post review contracts and is in the process of
preparing detailed review report which will be submitted separately by the end of May 2011.

4. AGREEMENTS REACHED

Legal and Institutional Reforms

4.1    A draft Land Bill has been prepared but this is still considered inadequate to address the
land policy issues and governance problems that it was meant to address, and further work is
required to ensure as much consensus as possible on key points among legal experts, policy
makers, traditional authorities, civil society groups and other stakeholders. Consequently,
support has been provided under LAP 2 for the completion of the legal reforms. It was agreed
that the terms of reference for the engagement of s suitable firm to work with the Legal Unit of
the LC for this exercise will be prepared and submitted to the Bank for review before June 30,
2011. The mission was informed that the Land Use and Planning Bill, however, will be ready for
submission to Parliament by June 30, 2011. The mission reviewed and commented on the most
recent draft.

4.2     The merger of the four land sector agencies has been effected through the enactment of
the Lands Commission Act 2008 (Act 767). However, there are still operational issues required
to be addressed to bring efficiency in the delivery of services. Of particular concern is the
determination of effective operational procedures, determination of required skill mix and
numbers as well as performance and remuneration. Some initiatives have been taken in
developing vision and strategy as well as job grading. It was, however agreed that the land sector
agencies including, the Human Resource unit and the office of the Director of the MLNR, will
require additional support to undertake an assessment of the staff skill mix requirements required
to deliver the services these agencies and units provide and the development of medium to long
term training plan. Educational institutions within the country will also be assessed to determine
their capacity to provide training for the identified skills and appropriate recommendations made
for in-country or external or a combination of both to upgrade the skills of LSAs. A TOR will be
prepared to this effect by June 30, 2011.

Support to Judiciary

4.3    LAP 1 has assisted in the establishment of Land (High) Courts all based in Accra and the
automation of these courts. Land cases in courts still represent about 80% of all cases in courts.
The issue of delays still persists and conclusions of various reports indicate that automation alone
will not bring about speedy adjudication. Activities to be undertaking by LAP 2 are all geared
towards the reduction of land cases. It is therefore recommended that the Judiciary also
undertake a review of the Rules of Court as well as case management (refer to reports) in line
with the practices of the Commercial Courts which have been found to be more effective.

Other Project Activities

4.4     The mission reviewed and agreed with the borrower that virtually all the project activities
namely; establishment of customary land secretariats, land information system, , ascertainment
of customary laws, geodetic reference network, revaluation of property, inventory of state lands,
customary boundary demarcation will be completed by June 30, 2011 when the project will
close. A two day retreat which was held during the mission therefore focused largely on
preparation for LAP 2. (report is attached as annex 1). The salient issues identified were:
Customary Lands Secretariat

4.5    The OASL will expand the modalities for the establishment of the CLS as per the outline
in annex 2

Customary Boundary Demarcation

4.6     The CBD exercise is unlikely to be completed fully by June 30, 2011. It was noted that
whilst the KfW funding could continue till September 2011, the operational cost associated with
this exercise financed through IDA resources will no longer be available after June 30th. The
team recommends that the MLNR seek government approval for additional support, perhaps
through the counterpart funds to support the completion of this activity. The OASL will also lead
in the preparation of an operational manual for the execution of this activity under LAP 2. The
Bank mission participants reminded government counterparts during discussions of the draft
PIM that social assessment activities will need to be incorporated into any project support to
CBD, CLS and titling in order to comply with safeguard obligations set forth in the LAP 2
financing agreement and PAD.

Land Information System

4.7     The first phase of the LIS has been completed and test runs are being done. COWI has
supplied the source code for the software after receiving their final payment.,. A program of
moving into the next phase was submitted to the mission. It was agreed that prior to the detailed
design of the second phase of LIS, a comprehensive business re-engineering would be
undertaken by a firm to be recruited for that purpose. The LC will prepare the TOR and submit
to the Bank by June 30, 2011.

Mapping

4.8    An inventory of existing maps will be undertaken to determine areas which have been
mapped already and identify the gaps to be mapped under LAP2. This will be preceded by a
meeting with major map users in the country to determine their requirements as well as possible
contribution to the exercise. A consultant will be engaged to support the preparation of a
mapping policy.

Geodetic Reference Network

4.9     A policy covering the GRN will be prepared prior to its deployment. It was also agreed
that a stakeholder meeting will be arranged to inform and discuss the management regime as
well as cost recovery measures to ensure sustainability of the system. The deployment of the
system will also be in phases and the criteria for this will be prepared by the LC. The same
approach will be followed for the establishment of the National Spatial Data Infrastructure
(NSDI).
Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)

4.10 Arrangements for preparation of the ICR were discussed during the mission. Guidelines
were left with the Government to help in preparing the first draft of the ICR which will be
reviewed by a World Bank mission in September 2011.

5. PENDING ACTIONS/NEXT STEPS



Action Description        Timeframe                Component                   Responsible
                                                                               Entity/Official

1 Draft PIM                 May 30, 2011       Condition for effectiveness      Tech Director

2.Revision of forward to PIM May 30,2011                                         Hon. Minister

3.Recruit PCU staff          June 30, 2011       Condition for effectiveness      Tech Director

4. Submit doc to parliament June 3, 2011                                         Tech Director

5. Legal Opinion            June 17, 2011                                       Tech. Director

6.Post Review Contracts     May 30, 2011        Procurement                      Proc Specialist

7. ICR (Borowers’)            June 30, 2011                                     Ag Director

8. Preparation of the ICR (Bank)   June 30, 2011 start                             TTL



 Disclosure : “The Bank and Borrower confirm their understanding and agreement to publicly
disclose this aide-mémoire. The disclosure of this Aide Memoire was discussed and agreed to
with project counterparts led by MrAlhaji Baryeh at the wrap-up meeting that took place on
May 11, 2011 in Accra
   Annex 1                          Names of People Met


           NAME                       TITLE                       INSTITUTION                                          E-MAIL


Christie Esi Bobobee     Administrator                     Office of the Administrator of   christiebobobee@yahoo.com
                                                           Stool Lands
Dr. Wilfred Anim-Odame   Director                          Land Valuation Division          animodame@hotmail.com

Mrs. Gifty Biyira        Former Project Administrator      Ministry of Employment &         gambiyira@yahoo.com
                                                           Social Welfare
Kwesi Dautey             Team Leader - CLS                 Office of the Administrator of   kwesidautey@yahoo.com
                                                           Stool Lands
Joe Paku                 Stool Lands Officer               Office of the Administrator of   wjpoku@yahoo.com
                                                           Stool Lands
K. A. Blankson           Project Administrator/Head of     LAPU                             ablankson@ghanalap.gov.gh
                         Planning Unit
Osman Siaka              M & E Unit                        LAPU                             osiaka@hotmail.com

W.K Opoku                Team Leader - CBD                 Survey & Mapping Division        wkopoku@yahoo.com

J. T. Odametey           Director                          Survey & Mapping Division        jodamety@gmail.co uk

John Eluerkeh            Institutional Reform Specialist   LAP                              johneluerkeh@yahoo.co.uk

Stephen Kumadoh          Team Leader - Inventory           Land Valuation Division          Stephenkumadoh@yahoo.co.uk

M. T. Ababio             PPMED                             MLNR                             Abab64math@yahoo.com

Dr. Isaac Karikari                                         MIDA                             ikarikari@mida.gov.gh

Michael Appiah           M&E                               LAP                              michealappiah@yahoo.com

Abigail Naa Odoi         Asst. Director IIB                MLNR                             naaodoi29@yahoo.com




Alhaji H.I. Baryeh       Technical Director (Lands)        MLNR                             Baryeh7@gmail.com

Rebecca Sittie           Director                          Land Registration Division       beesitt@gmail.com

Doris Offei              Team Leader – Intelligent         Land Registration Division       dorisoffei-@yahoo.com
                         Document Scanning
Andrews Bonsra                                             Public and Vested Lands          andrews-bonsra@yahoo.com
                                                           Management Division
Seylorm K-Zagbedeh       Ministry of Finance &                                              seylorm@yahoo.co.uk
                         Economic Planning – KfW
Dela Williams          Procurement Officer          LAPU                        kurtdelwilliams2001@yaoo.com

Akwasi Ahmed N.        MIS Manager                  MLNR                        anurdeen@mlf.gov.gh

Emmanuel Kitcher       Project Accountant           LAPU                        edokit2001@yahoo.com

Patrick Apraku         Procurement Officer          TCPD/LUPMP                  partrickapraku@yahoo.com

P.A. Opoku                                          Survey & Mapping Division   opokupee@yahoo.com
Joseph Ansah                                        Survey & Mapping Division
Edwin Addo-Tawiah      Team Leader – Orthophoto     Survey & Mapping Division   edwinyaw@yahoo.co.uk
                       Mapping
I .Gyasi-Tenkorang     Team Leader - SLT            Survey & Mapping Division   igyasitank@yahoo.com
Jonathan A. Abbosey    Deputy Executive Secretary   Lands Commission            Abbos53@yahoo.com       0244-64482
                       (Operations)
Bakari S. Nyari        Director                     Public and Vested Lands     bakarinyari@yahoo.com 0244-215607
                                                    Management Division
Jimmy Aidoo            Deputy Project Director      LAP                         jimmyaidoo@yahoo.co.uk

Dr. W. Odame Larbi     CEO/Executive Secretary      Lands Commission            odamekay@gmail.com

         NAME                      TITLE                   INSTITUTION                                E-MAIL/PHONE NO.

Kwegyir Bentil                                      Judicial Service            Bentilkwegyir@yahoo.com

Edwin Fayorsey         M&E                          LAPU                        mariobasla22@yahoo.com

Nelson Amowine         Planning Unit                LAPU                        amowinenelson@yahoo.com

Kobina Mensah Mannoh   Deputy Team Leader           GFA/GCI                     kobbmann@yahoo.com

Julie Glover Okai      Project Assistant/SPS        MLNR/LAP                    esiglov@yahoo.co.uk

T. Senkyire Acquah     Team Leader - GRN            Survey & Mapping Division   senkyire@gmail.com

Pearl Adjei Badu       Planning Unit                LAPU                        aawetnasa1@yahoo.com

Gladys Osei            Planning Unit                LAPU                        oseigladys@yahoo.com
Gerhard Bechtold       LUPMP                        TCPD/LUPMP                  mail@gerhardbechtold.com
Ethel Koomson          Planning Unit                LAPU                        nanaefua2000@yahoo.com

Safia Awudu            Secretary                    LAPU                        safkandy@yahoo.com
R D. Hansen                                         World Bank                  rdegrerdhauson@wb.org

Adu-Gyamfi Abunyewa    Procurement Specialist       World Bank                  aabunyewa@worldbank.org
R. Dornu Nartey          CICOL                  Land For Life                Dorichie2000@yahoo.co.uk

F. Byamugisha                                   World Bank, Nairobi,Kegya    fbyamugisha@worldbank.org
Charles Annor-Frimpong   Task Team Leader/LAP   World Bank
Johannes Agordjo         Financial Controller   MLNR                         akwamejohannes@yahoo.com
Sheila Minkah- Premo                            ACLP/GT2                     smpremo@yahoo.co.uk        0277-554424

Stella Ackwerh                                  Land Registration Division   olerkwor@yahoo.com

Lawrence Agudu                                  TCPD                         larryagudu@hotmail.com

Clarence Aku                                    TCPD                         aku292002@yahoo.com


Christopher Anibrika                            Land Registration Division   nibtrap@hotmail.com
Isaac Oppong-Yeboah                             OASL                         isaacoppongyeboah@ yahoo.com
Esther Antour                                   OASL                         0241-182631


Emos A. Sa                                      OASL                         02302-674159

Gad Akwensivie                                  OASL                         gadosman@yahoo.com
Wisdom Ahribi                                   OASL                         wahribi@yahoo.com

Gladys A. Klutse                                OASL                         gpasantewaa@yahoo.com

Joe Paku                                        OASL                         wjpaku@yahoo.com
C.M. Seniayyah                                  OASL                         020829928

Asiedu Poku                                     TCPD                         pokuasiedu@yahoo.com
ELEANOR LARBIE        LRD


K.A. BLANKSON         LAP
JOHN AMOAH            DDC                              amoah38@yahoo. Com

NANA ADJEI AMPOFO     CHAIRMAN LANDS COMMISSION

JIMMY AIDOO           LAP                              jimmyaidoo@yahoo.co.uk

C. ANNOR- FREMPONG    WORLD BANK

ALHAJI. H.I. BARYEH   MLNR                             Baryeh7@gmail.com

FRANU BYAMUGISHA      WORLD BANK                       fbyamugisha@worldbank.org

INNOCENT ACHIRA       PVLMD                            lachina2006@yahoo.com

MR. B. S. NYARI       PVLMD

J.T. ODAMETEY         SMD                              jodametey@gmail.com

J.A. ABBOSEY          LANDS COMM.                      abbos53@yahoo.com

SYLVIA ADUSU          LANDS COMM.                      sylviaadusu@yahoo.com

W. ODAME LARBI        LANDS COMM.                      odamekay@gmail.com




                                  4TH TO 6TH MAY 2011 – DODOWA
             NAME                 INSTITUION                ADDRESS                             E-MAIL/ PHONE N
JIMMY AIDOO                   LAP                   BOX MB 212                  jimmyaidoo@yahoo.com
KWESI DAUTEY                  OASL/LAP              BOX CT. 3076                kwesidautey@yahoo.com
C.E. BOBOBEE (MRS.)           OASL                                              christiebobobee@yahoo.com
L.Z. DAKURAH                  TCPD                  BOX MB 61 ACCRA             lolokura2000@yahoo.com
J.T. ODAMETEY                 SMD                   BOX CT 903 ACCRA            jodamety@gmail.com
J. A. ABBOSEY                 LANDS COMM.           BOX CT 5008 ACCRA           abbos53@yahoo.com
JON LINDSAY                   WORLD BANK            WB. ACCRA                   jlindsay@worldbank.org
CHARLES ANNOR-FREMPONG        WORLD BANK            FREETOWN
FRANK BYAMUGISHA              WORLD BANK            WB. NBI                     fbyamugisha@worldbank.org
REBECCA SITTIE                LRD                   BOX AN 12131 ACCRA          beesitt@gmail.com
DR. W. ODAME LARBI            LANDS COMM            BOX CT 5008 ACCRA           odamekay@gmail.com
SAUDA AHMED                   MOFEP                 BOX MB 40 MOFEP, RM337
ALHAJI. H.I. BARYEH           MLNR                                              Baryeh7@gmail.com
JOHANNES AGORDJO              MLNR                  BOX 212                     akwamejohannes@yahoo.com
EDWIN FAYORSEY      LAP        0898 OSU-ACCRA   mariobasla22@yahoo.com
JULIE GLOVER OKAI   MLNR/LAP
K.A. BLANSON        LAP
NELSON AMOWINE      LAP        BOX MB 212       amowinenelson@yahoo.com
STEPHEN KUMADOH     LVD        BOX CT 794, AR   stephenkumadoh@yahoo.co.uk
GLADYS GHARTEY      MOFEP      BOX MB 40 ,AR    gghartey@mofep.gov.gh
KOFI YEBOAH         UMLIS      ACCRA            Kofi.yeboah@yahoo.com
   Annex 2 Status of Key Performance Indicators


Hierarchy of Objectives              Key Performance Indicators                 Progress Report from Jan
                                                                                to Dec 2010

Project Development Objective:       Outcome/impact indicators:

Foundation is laid for sustainable
land administration system that is
fair, efficient, cost effective,     a)   Turnaround time in registering        2.5 months
                                          deeds is reduced to not more than 1
decentralized and increasing land
                                          month
tenure security.




                                     b) Turnaround time in registering          6.7 months
                                        titles reduced to not more than 6
                                        months in declared and mapped
                                        title registration areas




                                                                                Boundary demarcation for
                                                                                Ejisu Completed. Excluding
                                     - Land litigation cases decreased in 3     conflict areas
                                     pilot areas, namely Wasa Amenfi, Ejisu
                                     and Gbawe.

                                                                                The Boundary demarcation
                                                                                aims to reduce litigation but
                                                                                at the same time the activity
                                                                                has unearthed old disputes
                                                                                across the country. These are
                                                                                being compiled in separate
                                                                                reports



                                                                                A consultant was engaged to
                                                                                study the case of conflicting
                                                                                judgements in Gbawe. The
                                                                                assignment      has     been
                                                                                completed and the report has
                                                                                been forwarded to the LC for




                                                                12
Hierarchy of Objectives   Key Performance Indicators              Progress Report from Jan
                                                                  to Dec 2010

                                                                  study and implementation




                          a. Land transaction revenues to local   A total of 37,657,395.57
                          and central government increased by     revenue was collected from
                          130%                                    1st - 4th Quarter of 2010




                          a.   Land Titles registered by women    787 (21.6) titles issued to
                               increased by 50% in declared and   women (1st – 4th Quarter
                               mapped registration areas          2010) and 581 (15.9%)
                                                                  issued to joint owners



                          b.   Deeds registered    by   women     1,566 (20.77%) registered
                               increased by 50%.                  deeds by women in the
                                                                  established Land Registries
                                                                  in 2010 (1st – 4th Quarter)
                                                                  and 782 (10.37%) deeds
                                                                  registered as joint ownership.




                                                   13
Hierarchy of Objectives   Key Performance Indicators             Progress Report from Jan
                                                                 to Dec 2010



                          Land Agency Act passed by Parliament   Act Passed in 2008
                          and operational




                          Substantive Land Act passed      by    Not Completed. Still in Draft
                          Parliament and operational




                                                  14
Hierarchy of Objectives   Key Performance Indicators                 Progress Report from Jan
                                                                     to Dec 2010



                          Backlog of land litigation cases lodged    In the judicial year 2010, a
                          at High Courts and Circuit Courts in all   total of 2,640 cases were
                          ten (10) regional capitals decreased       cleared at both the circuit and
                                                                     high courts




                                                     15
Annex 3:          Outline for the preparation for the PIM Annex

MODALITIES FOR A CLS

   1.    Purpose
   2.    Functions
   3.    Models
               Criteria for selection
               Classification
                       o Type of land owning arrangements
                       o Resourceful/Less endowed
                       o Existing Capacity
   4.    Guidelines for Establishment
               Stages of entry/sensitization
               Preparation of a business plan
               Level of sustainability
               Boundary Plans
               Typology study (social assessment)
   5.    Contributions from Traditional Authorities
   6.    Classes of CLS
   7.    Operational Manual
               Regulations for operation
   8.    Type of support to be provided
               Including staff support from LSA’s
   9.    Level of transparency
   10.   MoU Parties
               Relationships
   11.   Quality Control
   12.   Legal framework
   13.   Criteria and processes for systematic recording of rights
   14.   M&E
               Impacts of CLSs (Indicators)

Customary Boundary Demarcation (CBD)

Demand-led Approach

   1.    Cost sharing arrangement
               Community entry
                       o OASL to lead/CSO main collaborators
                       o Commitment by parties to settlement of disputes through ADR
                       o All major disputes must be settled before entry
               Actual Demarcation
               Dispute Resolution
                       o No portion of boundary in court
   2.    MoU must clearly indicate parties preparedness to allow the exercise go on
   3.    Criteria for qualification
   4.    Beneficiary areas will have to clear their boundary as their contribution
   5.    Social Assessment (see paragraph 60 of the PAD)



                                                               16
                 Typology study

Ascertainment of Customary Law

National House of Chiefs activity/ACLP

    1.    MoU with ACLP and NHC to carry out the exercise on behalf of LAP
             Unit cost
             Extent of detail to be covered
             Part of CLS and CBD
             Emphasis on customary land law

MAPPING

    1.  LUMPM, SLT, CBD, REVALUATION depend on the maps
    2.  Inventory of all maps in the four project regions and their dates of production to update the metadatabase
    3.  Most likely all the fringes (peripheral) will have to be mapped i.e. peri-urban
    4.  Will be by International Competitive bidding
    5.  Specify the product (quality etc) and leave the bidding firms to choose which product to supply, e.g. satellite
        Imagery/Aerial photography
    6. Check from UMLIS and other people generating maps on products available
    7. Stakeholder consultation with users of base maps to determine priority and sequencing in pilot regions
    8. Policies on mapping and data sharing leading to the NSDI (starting with studies and a review of the current situation)
    9. Put in place an interim arrangement with all stakeholders including with users
    10. Scale is likely to be 1:2,500 in urban and 1: 5,000/10,000 for rural areas
    11. Preparation of TOR should start now

GEODETIC REFERENCE NETWORK (GRN)

    1.    Two networked under LAP 1, three remaining
    2.    Forty two (2) CORS to cover the entire country
    3.    Maintenance cost have to be addressed since it is substantial
    4.    Likely challenges of power and building of monuments
    5.    High potential/returns due to demand from public
    6.    Check with the possibility of phasing the implementation, i.e. delaying the GEOID implementation
    7.    Policy on GRN establishment
    8.    TOR for the GEOID and the CORS (Assistance from Frank-Peter Morgan)
    9.    TOR for Technical assistance to help with reviewing of the work by consultants
    10.   Ghana has to take a decision on the use of UTM(zone 30 and 31)
               Consultations with key stakeholders on the way forward
               Experiences from other countries/best practices

POLICIES

    1.    Survey and Mapping
    2.    GRN and establishment of CORS
    3.    NSDI
    4.    Legal Framework

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE



                                                             17
    1.   GRN
    2.   Remote Sensing Techniques
    3.   Transformation Parameters
    4.   Determination of GEOID
    5.   Quality Control

BUSINESS PROCESSESS OF LC/OASL
          1. Is linked with services that the LC provides
          2. A draft from the OMO/BPR Team
          3. Is also linked with the automation of the business process
          4. Technical Assistance in re-engineering for the new LC (Prepare TOR)
          5. Include OASL in business process
          6. LC to review the draft BPR
          7. Link it with the LIS
          8. Technical assistance to review LIS stage 1, intelligent scanning, Solar, etc

DECENTRALIZATION

    1.  A team has assessed the infrastructure of the various divisions in all the districts in the country
    2.  There are 178 districts in the country, out of which 39 district offices will be established.
              Accessibility
              Linkages to the regional office
              Located at nodal towns
              Fringes of areas of economic activity
              Synergies with other LAP interventions, e.g. CBD, CLS, LUMPM
              Linkage with LIS
    3. Only one location is ready to be converted into a fully fledged district office, Goaso in the Brong Ahafo region
    4. There is the possibility for the MiDA office at Awutu, but the office is relatively small for a fully functional district
        office
    5. Project mentions 20 district offices for the LC-modalities for this are still at an early stage
    6. There will be the need to have a full complement of staff for the offices at the district level
    7. Meanwhile there are no funds for construction of new offices under LAP-2
    8. Need for close collaboration with MMDA’s
    9. Type of support the CLS’s will derive from t he decentralized office of the LC/OASL
    10. Type of support to be provided in areas where CLS’s are not in existence

DEEDS/TITLE REGISTRATION

    1.   SMD to provide maps for the regional capitals to migrate deeds records into titling in the three project regions
         systematically
    2.    Move later into selected districts to start titling after declaration (provision of base maps by SMD)
    3.   Strategy for migrating registered deeds into titles once an area is declared as a title area through systematic titling
    4.   Pilot a land ownership/tenure mapping towards moving it into a cadastre

REVALUATION

    1.   Demand led approach
    2.   Develop modalities for cost sharing
             What the project will provide
             Where there will be synergies with other interventions



                                                                18
                Methodologies for engaging private sector
                In conjunction with SMD
                Develop modes of selling cost sharing approach
                Unit cost determined
    3.     Publish it in the national dailies for expression of interest
    4.     There should be availability of orthophotomaps

LAND USE PLANNING

    1.     Through international competitive bidding (TOR on experts required to be prepared)
    2.     Type of plans has been spelt out in PAD, i.e. spatial, regional and districts in the three project regions
    3.     Areas for National spatial plans and Regional structural plans have been determined
    4.     District(structural) and local plans yet to be determined

Criteria

    1.     Synergy with other project activity e.g. CBD, CLS, Revaluation etc
    2.     Synergy with other GOG projects, e.g. MiDA, SADA
    3.     Emerging investment potential of the area
    4.     Commitment of the MMDAs involved
                     Provision of office space for TCPD
                     MMDAs to bear the cost of consultations (about 30%), not less than three (3) stakeholder consultation
    5.     Multi stage approach to sift out districts
    6.     Forms to be developed for filling
    7.     MoU with the MMDAs (Draft to be prepared)
    8.     GiZ, JiCA, NORAD, UNDP, TULLOW, synergies mapped and linkages established
    9.     Models of LUMPM(with cost and duration) made available
    10.    TOR for the national spatial planning model and other plans
    11.    Mapping inputs is very critical
    12.    Procurement and supply of equipments
    13.    Refurbishment of offices is also critical
    14.    Sequence of receipt of map products


STREET AND PROPERTY ADDRESSING

    1.  Have resources for the Ayawso areas
    2.  Area photographs exist for the rest of old AMA-(Raw Photos)
    3.  In Ayawaso it has been converted to orthophotos for the exercise, hence can commence first
    4.  A draft guidelines for street naming has been approved by cabinent
    5.  AMA to decide on names of street and leave the entrenched ones
    6.  Capacity has to be built for the address register, there exist an HRD for this sub-component
    7.  Training in GIS,
    8.  There is the need to manage the information flow, all the divisions, especially SMD and LRD have to begin sharing
        data freely
    9. Need to have a meeting with service providers and to see how they can contribute to the exercise (pegged for
        31.05.2011)
    10. Implementation work plan is in place
              Functional
              Conversion of data on-going for Ayawaso


                                                                    19
                Divisions to put their portions needed for implementation in their workplan

HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT

  1.     LAP 1 was supposed to provide a comprehensive HRD plan, however this did not materialize
  2.    Limited amounts of degree awarding programs will be allowed
  3.    Need to revamp the Survey school to play a major role in training
              Status of the direction
              Strategic direction
              Strategic Business plan
              Ministry to make its position known on the school
  4.    Revise the three (3) year Training and Development plan of the LC to cover OASL/TCPD
  5.    Survey school to provide a proposal of estimated cost of revamping the school for training purposes
  6.    Survey school should be allowed to run programs for the industry, i.e. real estate sector
  7.    The HRD policy will be developed after the job evaluation exercise
  8.    Assess the capacity of training institutions locally and what they can provide
  9.    Determine what can be done locally and what we need to go outside for
  10.   Determine what type of courses will be needed for the LSA’s and which institutions can provide them
  11.   Assess the possibility of using the trainer-of-trainers model
  12.   Use the in-house expertise for training where they exist, or else go to the market for the right professionals
  13.   HRD unit in MLNR to lead in analysis of the skills requirement for the LC/OASL/TCPD
  14.   Think of strategy to retain staff after training
  15.   We need to build the capacity of the Human Resource Unit of MLNR-(prepare a TOR for the purpose and a road map
        for implementation)

  16. Need to properly revamp the Technical Directorate of Lands Secretariat at the MLNR-(prepare a TOR for the purpose
      and a road map for implementation)

COMMUNICATION AND PUBLIC OUTREACH

  1.    Immediately circulate the communication strategy to other identifiable bodies including civil society organization

LEGAL REFORMS

  1.    Get a consultant to start working on the LI’s for LC/OASL -Prepare TOR’s
  2.    Get a team or a firm to carry on with the preparation of the Land Bill-TOR for the recruitment of firm/specialist
  3.    Have the legal team to be on board
  4.    Need to review what has been done in house with technical team for extensive discussions
  5.    Have a wider consultation on what has been done so far
  6.    Identify the mischief that needs to be cured
  7.    Identify the selected teams to handle specific issues
  8.    Sequencing of other activities like LI’s for the Lands Commission Act and the OASL Act
  9.    Identify the process and contributions towards reviewing Land Laws
             Have a list of issues from the technical people, guided by the in-house lawyers within the Agencies
             Submit it to the drafting team for putting into the legal language
             Then at a point cross-check this with what have been done
             TTL to provide a sample of this record system to DPD

COLLABORATION WITH THE JUDICIARY




                                                              20
  1.    Request from the judiciary
  2.    PCU reviews and approves request
  3.    Sequencing of activities
  4.    Need to share their plan/activities with PCU
  5.    Training of the Judges in collaboration with the training school
  6.    Program roll –out
  7.    Extent of automation to be carried out
  8.    Possibility of having the rules of court reviewed/develop new rules of court for the Land courts (80% cases are land
        related)
  9.    Evidence from studies and commentaries point in the direction of revision of rules of court
  10.   Proposals to look more at the district and lower courts in terms of refurbishment
  11.   Scanning a major component to be looked at towards improvement in records keeping
  12.   ADR to be incorporated into structure after a review of an earlier work
  13.   Publishing of cases to be catered for under this sub-component

PAD

  1.    MOFEP was mistakenly left out on the steering committee on page 29 of the PAD document
  2.    Ministry of Water Resources Works and Housing should be corrected on page 29 of PAD

CONCLUSIONS

  1.    Revised PIM sent by the end of the month May 2011 to TTL for review within a week
  2.    Recruitment of key personnel advertised today 6th May-closing 27th May
  3.    Develop a plan/road map for:
              Shortlisting for no-objections (min. of 3- max. of 6)
                Interviews and finalization of contracts
              Identification of panel upfront
                Inform panel upfront

  4.    Complete all these by mid-June 2011 to declare effectiveness
  5.    Financial training manual to be completed by Monday 9th May
  6.    Cabinet approval by middle of May, 2011
  7.    Parliamentary approval-first week in June, 2011
  8.    Legal opinion from AG’s Department
  9.    Signing of the agreement before end of June, 2011




                                                             21
