Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  34545 
Operation Name 
Policy Based Credit (PBC) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Public Sector (50%), Private Sector Development (30%), Human 
Development (20%) 
Project ID 
P074889 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
November 18, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Tajikistan’s transition experience to a market economy has been satisfactory reflecting prudent 
macroeconomic management, implementation of the first generation of structural reform, stable political 
stability, and favorable external environment. The country enjoys rapid economic growth that has 
averaged 10 percent during 2000-04, declining inflation, stable exchange rate, lowered fiscal deficit, 
favorable external balance and low external debt. This economic growth has contributed to poverty 
reduction from 82 percent in 1999 to 64 percent in 2003, using a $2.15 PPP poverty line. 
Despite this success, Tajikistan remains the poorest CIS country with a GDP per capita just above US$ 
300 and the gains on economic growth and poverty reduction are not sustainable without further 
structural and policy reforms. Investment remains at a very low level because of unfavorable business 
environment and poor governance. The generous endowment of with transport and utility infrastructure 
is ageing rapidly and in many areas starting to fall apart. Inadequate Government funding for education 
and health has led to a decline in the quality of human capital. Institutional capacity is weak and policy 
planning is fragmented. Civil service salaries are low and governance environment is weak. In many 
areas, the interface between the private sector and the state still needs to be redefined. 
To overcome bottlenecks and ensure sustainability of rapid growth, the government appears committed 
to implement structural reform in the agriculture and public sectors, to accelerate privatization of 
medium and large enterprises, to improve the business environment and to strengthen governance as 
indicated in the government program (PRSP). The proposed Policy Based Credit (PBC) will provide 
necessary budget support to move forward with the planned reforms, to overcome bottlenecks to growth, 
and to reduce poverty within the framework of the PRSP
.
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
Building on the two previous multi-tranche adjustment operations (SAC I and SAC 2), the PBC aims to 
achieve the two principal objectives: 
(i) 
to help prepare the programmatic framework for a future PRSC through the preparation and 
adoption of suitable sectoral reform strategies in line with the PRSP, backed-up by a limited number of 
concrete reform steps; and  
Page  2
(ii) 
to follow-up on select conditionality of the previous adjustment operation to sustain the reform 
momentum on critical issues. 
Page  3
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed PBC would focus on  
 
(i) maintaining macro economic stability;  
(ii) sustaining economic growth and poverty reduction policy reforms through improving investment 
climate, increasing productivity in agriculture and improved trade and transportation;  
(iii) improving effectiveness of public sector management through civil service and wage reform; and  
(iv) improving public service delivery in health and education. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
In accordance with the Association’s operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, 
Annex E), 
the operation is proposed to be placed in Category “C” and does not require an environmental 
assessment 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
 Total 
10 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Sudharshan Canagarajah 
Title: Senior Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4458 
Fax: (202) 614-0912 
Email: 
scanagarajah@worldbank.org
Note: This information is provided for an evolving project.  
 
