                             PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                              CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                      Report No.: AB1494
 Operation Name                    Structural Adjustment Credit III
 Region                            EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
 Sector                            General public administration sector (100%)
 Project ID                        P074889
 Borrower(s)                       REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
 Implementing Agency               INISTRY OF FINANCE
 Date PID Prepared                 March 23, 2005
 Estimated Date of                 July 2005
 Appraisal Authorization
 Estimated Date of Board           October 2005
 Approval

1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

Tajikistan's transition experience to a market economy has been satisfactory reflecting prudent macroeconomic
management, implementation of the first generation of structural reform, stable political stability, and favorable
external environment. The country enjoys rapid economic growth that has averaged 10 percent during 2000-04,
declining inflation, stable exchange rate, lowered fiscal deficit, favorable external balance and low external debt.
This economic growth has contributed to poverty reduction from 82 percent in 1999 to 64 percent in 2003, using a
$2.15 PPP poverty line.

Despite the success, Tajikistan remains the poorest CIS country with a GDP per capita just above US$ 300.
Investment remains at a very low level because of unfavorable business environment and poor governance. The
generous endowment of with transport and utility infrastructure is ageing rapidly and in many areas starting to fall
apart. Inadequate Government funding for education and health has led to a decline in the quality of human
capital. Institutional capacity is weak and policy planning is fragmented. Civil service salaries are low and
corruption is widespread. In many areas, the interface between the private sector and the state still needs to be
redefined in many areas.

To overcome bottlenecks and ensure sustainability of rapid growth, the government appears committed to
implement structural reform in the agriculture and public sectors, to accelerate privatization of medium and large
enterprises, to improve the business environment and to strengthen governance as indicated in the government
program (PRSP). The proposed Policy Based Credit will provide necessary budget support to move forward with
the planned reforms, to overcome bottlenecks to growth, and to reduce poverty within the framework of the
PRSP.


2. Proposed objective(s)


Building on the two previous multi-tranche adjustment operations (SAC I and SAC 2), the PBC aims to achieve
the two principal objectives:

    (i)      to help prepare the programmatic framework for a future PRSC through the preparation and adoption
             of suitable sectoral reform strategies in line with the PRSP, backed-up by a limited number of
             concrete reform steps;
    (ii)     to follow-up on select conditionality of the previous adjustment operation to sustain the reform
             momentum on critical issues.

3. Preliminary description

The proposed PBC would focus on three areas (i) strengthen public administration and public expenditure
management; (ii) support private sector development; and (iii) facilitate trade and transport.



4. Environment Aspects

In accordance with the Association's operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E),
the operation is proposed to be placed in Category "C" and does not require an environmental assessment



5. Tentative financing
                                                                                       ($m.)
Source:
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                     0
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                                  10
        Total                                                                          10

6. Contact point

Contact: Jakob von Weizsacker
Title: Economist
Tel: (202) 458-0922
Fax: (202) 614-5219
Email: jvonweizsacker@worldbank.org

Note: This information is provided for an evolving project.

