                                            .Documentof
                                           The WorldBank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                              ReportNo. 35000-TJ




                       INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION

                                       PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                 FORA

                   PROPOSEDGRANT INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 7 MILLION

                                  (US$ 10 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                  THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                                                  FORA

                      PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENTPOLICY GRANT

                                             May 15,2006




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagementUnit
CentralAsia CountryUnit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region


This documenthasa restricted distribution andmaybe usedbyrecipients only inthe perfonnanceoftheir
oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout WorldBank authorization.

                    REPUBLICOFTAJIKISTAN

              Government FiscalYear: January-December

                          Currency Equivalents

              (Exchange Rate Effective as o fMay 15,2006)

                  Currency Unit
                     US$1.oo            Tajikistan Somoni
                                              3.2400
                     TJS 1.00                 0.3086

                Weights andMeasures:Metric System


                ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

BEEPS    Business EnvironmentEnterprisePerformance Survey
CFAA     Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CIS      CommonwealthofIndependent States
DFID     Departmentfor International Development (U.K.)
GDP,     Gross domestic product
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IMF      International Monetary Fund
MDGs     MillenniumDevelopment Goals
MIGA     Multilateral InvestmentGuarantee Agency
NBT      National BankofTajikistan
N D S    National Development Strategy
NSED     National Strategy for EducationDevelopment
PDPG     Programmatic Development Policy Credit
PPIAF    The Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PRGF     Poverty Reduction andGrowth Facility
PRSP     Poverty reduction strategy paper
SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit




                    Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu
                  Country Director:  Annette Dixon
                    Sector Director: Cheryl Gray
                  Sector Managers:   C. Felipe Jaramillo
                 Task TeamLeader:   R. Sudharshan Canagarajah
                                     ..
                                     11

                                                      TAJIKISTAN

                  PROGRAMMATICDEVELOPMENTPOLICYGRANT

                                                       CONTENTS

1.        A. RecentMacroeconomic Developments.........................................................................
          CountryContext       .................................................................................................................       43
          B. StructuralReformandChallenges                       .................................................................................     6
          C. PoliticalEconomy andGovernance                        ...............................................................................     9

2         Tajikistan's PovertyReductionStrategy                          .......................................................................       12
3..       A Pillar 1:PromotingPrivate Sector Development.........................................................
          TheDevelopmentPolicyProgram
            .                                                ..................................................................................        13
                                                                                                                                                       13
              (i)Maintainingmacroeconomicstability.................................................................
                                                                         . .                                                                           13
                                                                                                                                                       13
                                                                                                                                                       17
          B Pillar 2:Public SectorReformandImprovingPublic Service Delivery.....................
              (iii)Regulatoryreforminkeystrategicsectors.........................................................
              (ii)Improvingtheinvestmentclimate                            ......................................................................
           .                                                                                                                                           20
              (i)Public
               ..            sector managementreform                       ......................................................................      20
              (11)  Public service delivery            ........................................................................................        25
4.        ProposedOperation           .........................................................................................................        28
          A Descnptionofthe Operation
            ..      . .                                ........................................................................................        28
          B Linkages    .......................................................................................................................        29

          D Povertyand SocialImpact...........................................................................................
          C. LessonsLearned                                                                                                                            31
                                                                                                                                                       32
          E Implementation. Monitoring. andEvaluation                              ..............................................................      34
          F FiduciaryAspects
          G. Disbursement andAuditing.........................................................................................
           ...                      ...........................................................................................................

                .   .                 .........................................................................................................        34
          H EnvironmentalAspects................................................................................................                       35
                                                                                                                                                       36
          I RisksandRiskMitigation
           ..                                      ............................................................................................        38


Figure 1:TajikistanBEEPS-at-a-glance: problems doingbusiness......................................................
Figures
                                                                                                                                                        8

Tables
Table 1:Medium-termMacroeconomic Outlook.................................................................................                               5

Table 3:Core policy actions underProgrammatic Development Policy Operations 1and2 ............ 29
Table 2: BEEPS Inspections ...............................................................................................................             15


Annexes
Annex 1:Letters of Development Policy             ............................................................................................         40
Annex 2: Policy Matrix .......................................................................................................................         50
Annex 3: Link between the Program, AAA and other BankandDonor Programs                                                    ............................ 58
Annex 4: Relations with the InternationalMonetaryFund
           ..                                                                    ...............................................................       59
Annex 5: Tajikistan at a Glance
Annex 6: SelectedMacroeconomic Indicators ...................................................................................
                                    ..........................................................................................................         63
Annex 7: Implementation o f Structural Adjustment Credit 2: Policy Areas andAchievements ....... 65                                                    66

Annex 8: Joint IMF-WorldBankDebtSustainabilityAnalysis (Summary)                           ...................................... 71

Map of Tajikistan

IBRD33493


 The proposedProgrammaticDevelopmentPolicy Grant was preparedby an IDAteamconsistingofR. Sudharshan
 Canagarajah, Jakob von Weizsacker, JariyaHoffman, Utkirdjan Umarov, Tony Verheijen, Kathy Lalazarian(ECSPE);
 Ernest0Cuadra, SarbaniChakraborty, PeyvandKhaleghian,Saodat Bazarova(ECSHD); Sudhee Sen Gupta(CICIC);
 Norpulat Daniyaraov, Andrew Mackie, JohnOgallo, NaushadKhan(ECSPS); T. V. Sampath(ECSSD); RaghuveerSharma
 (ECSIE); Florentin Blanc (IFC); Enrico Pinali, Wendy S. Ayres, Andy Ricover, GaryKelly, MehmetGokay, Khursheda
 Nazirova, Alexander Kitain, andFiruz Kataev (Consultants). PeerreviewersincludedAmparo Ballivian(LCCNI), Sarah
 Cliffe (OPCFS), and Jan Walliser (OPCCE). The teambenefitedfromthe inputsandguidanceofFelipeJarmillo and
 Camille Nuamah. The teamgratefully acknowledgesthe excellentclose collaborationofthe Tajikistan authorities,
 development partners, aswell as the support andguidanceof Dennisde Tray, Annette Dixon, Cheryl Gray, Samuel Otoo,
 DeborahWetzel, CevdetDenizer, LiliaBurunciuc,Aziz Khaidarovand Arshad Sayed. Damika SomasundaramandTakhmina
 Jumaeva assistedthe team.




                                                               iv

                          REPUBLICOFTAJIKISTAN

                ProgrammaticDevelopmentPolicyGrantSummary

Borrower              Republic o fTajikistan

Implementing Agency   Government o fTajikistan

Amount                US$lO million inIDA grant

Terms                 To be provided on a grant basis, not subject to repayment

Tranching             US$lO.O million in IDA grant will be disbursed in a single tranche
                      following effectiveness.
Description           The proposed Programmatic Development Policy Grant i s the first
                      programmatic operation o fthe BankinTajikistan to support the
                      government's reformprogram outlined inthe PRSP. The operation
                      will support a strategic set o fpolicyreforms inprivate sector
                      development, public sector management and social service delivery.
                      The operationwill also provide continuity o fthe reforminitiated by
                      the Bank's previous adjustment operations (SAC 1and2). Policy
                      measures supportedby this operation have a strong cross cutting
                      emphasis on improving governance.
                      The proposed programi s divided into two pillars with the following
                      components:
                      Pillar 1. Promoting Private Sector Development
                                Component 1:Maintainmacroeconomic stability;
                                Component 2: Improve investment climate through reform
                           o f licensingand inspections, increasingtransparency o fthe
                           privatization process andpromoting market competition; and
                           0    Component 3: Reformregulatory frameworks through
                           separating policy makingandregulation function inkey
                           strategic sectors (i.e. aviation, cotton and energy).
                      Pillar 2. Improve Public Sector Management and Public Service
                      Delivery:
                                Component 1:Public sector management reform through
                           restructuring o f core public institutions, reforms o f civil service
                           management andwage system, strengthening the medium-term
                           expenditure framework; and
                                Component 2: Improving social service delivery inhealth
                           andeducation.

Benefits           The proposed operation wouldprovide the Tajik government with
                   financial support to cover some of the expenditures associatedwith
                   the implementation o f a medium-term reformprogram. Major
                   benefits of the overall reformprogramwould be:
                     0   Greater overall mediumterm growth as aresult o f higher
                         private investment spurredby an improved investment climate.
                         Improvedpublic sector performance.
                     0   Improvedgovernance.
                     0   Improveddelivery o fhealth and education services.
Risks              The implementation o fthe proposedreformprogram faces four
                   major risksrelatedto: (a) weak government implementation
                   capacity, (b) weak public financial management systems, (c)
                   Tajikistan's complex political economy coupled with the
                   presidentialelections scheduled for November 2006, and (d) the
                   vulnerability ofthe economy to external shocks. The program
                   contains a number o fmeasuresto mitigate these.

OperationIDNumber  PO74889




                                       2

                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             PROGRAMDOCUMENT FORA
        PROPOSEDPROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT
                                               TO

                            THE REPUBLICOFTAJIKISTAN



                               1.      COUNTRY CONTEXT

1.       Tajikistan is a small economy in Central Asia with 6.7 million inhabitants and a per
capita income of US$310. The economy, which has been growing on average at 10 percent
during 2001-04, depends heavily on exports o f cotton, aluminum and hydroelectricity, and on
growing remittances o f migrants to Russia conservatively estimated at 16 percent of GDP.
Poverty although declining steadily remains very high. In 2003 the headcount was 64 percent
using purchasing power parity poverty line o f US$2.15.       However, social indicators have
continued to worsen, reflecting deteriorating public service delivery and weak governance.
Tajikistan i s the only country in ECA region unlikely to achieve most o f its Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs).'

2.      After independencefrom the USSR in 1991, Tajikistan suffered a prolonged civil war
through mid 1997, when it was resolved with a peace accord. A long period of political
stabilization and consolidation followed.    It was not until 2005 that parliamentary elections
returnedTajikistan's first non-coalition government since the end o f the hostilities andthe United
Nations graduatedTajikistan from post-conflict status.

3.      Notwithstanding this gradual political transition, Tajikistan managed to quickly
stabilize the economy by 2000 and undertake exchange rate, price and trade liberalization,
financial sector reform, and privatization of lands and small enterprises. Economic growth
accelerated to 10.2 percent in 2001 and has averaged 7 percent through 2005. However, this
growth reflects recovery incapacity utilization primarilyinagricultural, favorable world prices of
cotton and aluminum, strong growth in Russia and other trading partners, and increasing
remittances from Tajik migrants, mainly inRussia.

4.       The extended political consolidation did, however, complicate key elements of the
economic transition agenda. As such, Tajikistan has made little progress inthe transforming its
public sector from a central planning and state production apparatus into an instrument for
encouraging private investment in human, social, and physical capital.        Largely unreformed
Soviet era structures and a poorly paid civil servants marred by years o f politicization have left
the country with low indicators o f government effectiveness and regulatory quality even
compared with other Central Asian states and members o f the CIS.'           Remnants o f central
planningremain inkey industries,notably inthe cotton sector.

5.      As such, the government has not been very effective in translating the recent strong
growth performance into better fundamentals for long term growth and improved social
'   The World Bank, MillenniumDevelopmentGoals: Progress andProspectsinEuropeand Central Asia
region, 2005.
    WorldBankInstituteGovernanceResearchIndicatorCountry Snapshot(GCFUS) indicators.


                                                3

welfare. Investment rates, including foreign direct investment (FDI), continue to be historically
low. Public investment averaged 6 percent o f GDP during 2000-04, constrained by fiscal
exigencies.    Private investment averaged a low 5 percent during the same period, due to
unfinished  structural reforms and an extremely weak investment climate. Since independence,
the key social indicators (primary and secondary school enrollment rates, infant mortality,
maternal mortalityratio, total fertility rate, incidence o f tuberculosis, and child malnutrition) have
been declining. Combined withrelatively highpopulation growth rate, the serious implicationi s
that Tajikistan i s facing a depreciation o f its humancapital.

6.       while earlier efsorts to accelerate structural reforms were plagued by the post-war
environment,the combinationof sustained macroeconomicstability and economicgrowth and
the recent political consolidation have created the space for more fundamental reform.
Concerned about the current vulnerability of Tajikistan's economy to a change in external
conditions, the government has outlined a comprehensive program o f structural and institutional
reform aimed at sustaining growth and reducing poverty.               This program, which i s being
incorporatedinthe upcoming second PRSP, centers on (a) reformpublic sector management; (b)
development o f private sector and attracting investments; and (c) development o f human
potential.

7.       The proposed operation will support reforms aimed at promoting private sector
development and improving the delivery of public services. Inthe private sector, the proposed
reforms will improve investment climate through reforming o f the licensing and inspections
regime, the legal, institutional andregulatory framework inkey strategic sectors (aviation, cotton,
and energy) and improve transparency of the privatization process. In the public sector, the
operation will focus on improving the quality o fpublic administration, civil service management,
public financial management, and the efficiency and equity o f social service delivery. Policy
actions in private sector development and public administration will address the cross cutting
governance issues that are critical for sustaining growth and reducing poverty in Tajikistan.
Furtherdetails of the programarepresented inchapter 3 andthe policy matrix (annex 2).

A.     Recent Macroeconomic Developments

8.       The government's pursuit of sound macroeconomic management successfully
stabilized the economy during 2002-05.            Through tight monetary policy and strong fiscal
discipline, Tajikistan has been able to reduce inflation from 30-40 percent during 1998-2001 to
below 10 percent since 2004.           The overall fiscal balance (excluding externally-financed
investment) has been insurplus since 2003, achievedthrough improved revenue mobilization and
a reduction in interest payments on external public debt. Revenues have increased from 14
percent o f GDP in 2000 to an estimated 20 percent o f GDP in 2005. In addition, Tajikistan
benefited from several successhl debt restructuring and reduction agreements reached with key
bilateral creditors, notably with the Russian Federation, Pakistan and through the Multilateral
Debt ReliefInitiative with the International Monetary Fund. External debt stood at 42 percent of
GDP in2005, down from 124percent in2000.


remittances. Tajikistan enjoyed a sustained improvement inthe current account balance from -
9.       Tajikistan benejited from an improvement in terms of trade and burgeoning

6.4 percent o f GDP in 2000 to -1.3 percent in 2003 on account o f rising prices and volumes o f
key exports, aluminum and cotton. However, in2004, it increased sharply to -4.0 percent of GDP
on account of higher oil import prices, and weakening cotton prices and production. In2005, the
current account balance declined moderately to -3.4 percent o f GDP, although the volume of
reserves has increased in line with IMF program targets. The unexpectedly strong performance


                                                    4

  o f imports (fueled by growth in remittance growth) has kept the stock o f reserves inrelation to
  import cover at about two months o f imports of goods and services duringthe last few years.'

  10.      Over the short to medium term, Tajikistan's macroeconomic prospects are positive,
  although growth is expected to slow somewhat. Growth slowed in 2005 due to weak export
  prices for cotton and aluminum and higher import oil prices. However, the start o f a large-scale
  Russian-financed hydroelectric power project, expansion in aluminum processing capacity to
  service continued highworld demand, recovery in cotton production following a recent drought,
  and buoyant inflows of remittances should support growth of 4-6 percent during the next few
  years. Inflation i s expected to remain subdued with continued tight monetary policy, although
  some pressures on consumer prices may result from increases in world oil prices and proposed
  electricity tariff adjustments. The government plans to maintain an overall fiscal surplus o f 0.5
  percent of GDP during2006-1 0, excluding the externally-financedpublic investment program.



                                                                      ACTUAL                                 Baseline'
                                                       2000  I  2001   I 2002    12003    I2004     2005 12006-10

Gross Domestic Product, US$ million                     955     1033      1197      1556 2073        2311         3085
Real GDP Growth, percent                                  8        10         9        10     11         7           6
Real Per Capita GDP growth, percent                       6          8        7        8       8          5          4
Per Capita GDP, US$                                     154       164      186       237    309        338        425
Annual Inflation, percent                                33        39        12        16      7          7          5
                                                                                (MillionsofUSS$)
Current Account Balance                                 -59       -52       -43       -20    -83       -79        -147
   Exports o f Goods andNon-factor Services             850       735      799       985   1211       1246        1658
   Imports o f Goods andNon-factor Services             868       847      929      1142   1451       1683       2294
   Net Income                                           -80       -5 1      -57       -90    -78       -75         -79
   Net Transfers                                         39       111       144      228    236        432         568
   Net Foreign Direct Investment2                        24        10        36        32   272          55         88
                                                                            (inpercentof GDP)
Current Account Balance3                                 -6        -5        -4        -1     -4         -3         -5
Overall Revenues and Grants                              14        15        17        17     18         20         20
Total Expenditures andNet Lending                        19        18        19        19     20         23         24
   o fwhich: Externally funded public
   investment program                                     4          2        2         3      3          3          4
Fiscal Balance (incl. externally funded public
investment program)                                      -6        -3        -2        -2     -2         -3         -4
Fiscal Balance (excl externally funded public
investment program)                                      -2        -1         0         1      1          1          0
External Debt                                           128        98        84        66     42         39         36
Debt Service Due, inpercent o fExport Goods
andNon-factor Services                                    5        14        13        11     28          7          5
Memo Items:
   Exchange Rate                                          L
                                                          7          L
                                                                     7        -1
                                                                               1        -1
                                                                                        1      J
                                                                                               1          J
                                                                                                          2          J
                                                                                                                     2

  Note:
  1. 2006-10 weighted averages.
  2. Includingdebt-for-equity swap with Russia (2004) o fUS$242million.

  '  International reserves net of remittance-induced imports are estimated at about 4 months of imports of goods and
  services.


                                                            5

3.  Including grants.
Source: WorldBankstaffcalculations.


11.      The external account, despite signs of weakening, is expected to remain quite stable
over the medium term. The current account deficit is projected to increase from 3.4 percent of
GDP in 2005 to 4.8 percent o f GDP during 2006-10, assuming weaker prices of aluminum and
cotton, and continued strong demand for imports associated with the investment projects in
infrastructure andhydroelectricity.

12.      The risk of debt distress is moderate. A recent external debt sustainability analysis
conducted jointly with the IMF (annex 8) suggests that all the indicators of external debt burden
will remainbelow relevant thresholds under the baseline scenario butthat some indicators worsen
over times4 Given the high concessionality of external public and publicly guaranteed debt, debt
service payments remain low in 2006 at 14.3 percent of revenues and 5.8 percent of exports.
Implementing the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative for IMF debt (as of end 2004) in January
2006 would decrease net present value of debt-to-revenues ratio from 129 percent in2004to 114
percent in 2006, and hrther reduce the risk o f debt distress. Sensitivity analyses suggest that
several indicators would breach their thresholds in 2007 if the economy were affected by a
combined shock to GDP andexports growth, andFDIinflows.

13.      However, a structural transformation of the economy is still needed to broaden the
sources of economic growth and reduce the vulnerabilitiesto external shocks. Despite some
recent diversification of exports, Tajikistan's economy remains heavily dependent on a few key
commodities and key trading partners. It is therefore vulnerable to shifts in world demand for
and prices of cotton and aluminum, or a slowdown in the Russian and CIS economies. Any
deterioration in these could widen both the external current account and fiscal deficits, and
dampen growth. However, the external current account is financed primarilyby donor inflows
and remittances. Both are expected to be reasonably stable over the medium term, as donor
inflows are expected to continue and Russian immigration policy with respect to Tajikistan is not
expectedto change.

B.    StructuralReformandChallenges

14.      Sustaining long term economic growth in Tajikistan will require accelerating export
growth and diversification of the domestic economy, by stimulating investment, improving
productivity and strengthening competitiveness.            Tajikistan has considerable potential to
increase its output and exports o f agricultural products and of hydroelectricity. Inagriculture,
productivity remains low hindered by lack of clear land use rights and inefficiencies inthe supply
of inputs and credit.        For hydroelectricity, the regulatory fiamework currently creates a
disincentive for investment.       Tajikistan also has good prospects for increasing production of
nontradables to meet rising domestic demand for consumer services. Broader diversification,
however, will require strengthening a very weak business environment, improving the skills and
education o fthe workforce and improving utility services inkey areas.'



    Average GDP growth o f 6.5 percent, export growth o f 7.9 percent and an average current account
balance o f 4.3 percent o f GDP during 2006-10, as well as the maintenance o f fiscal prudence and tight
monetary policyunder a new PRGFprogram.
    Tajikistan is an active member o f the Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation and benefits from
multilateral andbilateral regional program inenergy, trade, and transport.


                                                    6

15.       Under reform programs supported by the World Bank and the IMF since 1997,
Tajikistan has made reasonable progress on trade and exchange rate liberalization,
privatization, and banking reform.` Tajikistan has a very open trade regime with few tariff lines
and an average tariff o f around 7 percent-the        highest degree o f trade openness among low-
income members o f the CIS. The exchange rate is market-driven through a managed float with
interventions limited to smoothing operations.            The banking sector has gradually been
strengthened through restructuring of its five biggest banks, closure o f weak banks, and improved
supervision and prudential ratios. Privatization of small enterprises has been completed, while
divestiture of medium and large enterprises is ongoing. More than half of state and collective
farms have been dismantled andland certificates issued to private farmers.

16.      I n addition, the investment climatehas improved over the lastfew years, albeitfrom an
extremely low level. Te number of firms inTajikistan indicating problems for doingbusiness in
most of the key areas of the investment climate has declined, according to the joint World Bank-
EBRDBusiness Environment andEnterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS) conducted in2002 to
2005. The notable exceptions are in access to land, business licensing and permits, skills and
education of the workforce, and labor regulations. The notable exceptions are inaccess to land,
business licensing and permits, skills and education of the workforce, and labor regulations. In
addition, Tajikistan compares favorably with other CIS countries with fewer firms reporting each
key issue as a problem for doing business, with the notable exceptions of business licensing and
permits andelectricity supply.'

17.      However, Tajikistan faces challenges in completing the transition agenda and
addressingunderlyinggovernanceissues. The state remains intricately involvedina wide range
of commercial and productive activities, which continues to hinder the development of
competitive markets. Formal financial intermediation remains very low and the accumulated
cotton farm debt is also impeding the efficient allocation o f resources for productive activity.
Finally, the delivery of public services, including social and economic services, remains
inadequate for long term growthand poverty reduction.

18.       The state's involvement continues to impede the achievement of a satisfactory
investment climate and hinder diversification. This problemranges fromthe remnants of central
planningin cotton production and restrictions on the use o f land rights, to the convolution of
regulatory and commercial functions in the aviation and electricity sectors, to the continued
preferential treatment-in     terms of access to inputs, energy, finance, or in some cases the
maintenance o f dominant market p o w e r - o f state-owned enterprises and vested interests with
close links to the state. Similarly, a lack of transparency surrounding the privatization process
has dampened investor interest in the remaining entities. As a result, in 2004 the private sector
produced only 30 percent of GDP.




    The World Bank's First and Second Structural Adjustment Grant (SAC Iand SAC 11) for 1998-2000
and 2001-04, and the IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment FacilityPoverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (ESAFPRGF) andthe secondPRGF arrangement for the 1998-2001 and 2002-05, respectively.
'   The comparisonofBEEPS resultsfor Tajikistan with those ofother countriesis fraught withproblems,
as the private sectorremains small and establishedfirms are often those that have overcome most obstacles.
Notably absentinthese measurementare the perceptionsofpotential investorsand entrepreneurswho have
not beenable to start firms.



                                                     7

Figure1:TajikistanBEEPS-at-a-glance:problemsdoingbusiness

 Problems Doing Buslness-Over Time                     Problems Doing Buslness-Across       Countrles
 Percent of firms indicating a problem .......-        Percent of firms indicating a problem

    Contract vlolatlons                                    Contract violations


       Antl.com p-tltlve                                     Anti.cOm petltive
     practices of others                                    pract1c.s of others

              0rganls.d                                               Organlsed
             crlmdmafla                                              crlmelmafis

      Strset crima, thsR                                     Street crlm., 1h.R
         and d1.ord.r                                           and dlsorder

              Corruption                                              Corruption


      Functionlng ofth.                                      Functionlng afthe
           judiciary                                               judlclary

         MacrOeCOnOmlC                                         H.cro.conomlc
            Instability                                             Instablllty

      Uncertainty about                                      Uncertainty about
    regulatory polic1.s                                    regulatory pollclss               I
    Skllis and education                                 Skills and eduestlon
         of workws                                             of WOrkw.


     Labour regulatlons                                    Labour ngul.tiona

     6usln..s    Ilcsnslng                                 6uslna.s licsnslng
         and permlts                                           and permit.

     Customs and trade                                     Customs and trade
         rsguIatlon8                                            regulstions


     Tma admlnlstr~tion                I                    Tax .dmlnlstratlon


                1.x rat..              I                                Taa rates           L

       Title or leasing of                                    Tltl. or 1...ing  Of
              land                                                    land


         Acc.as to land                                         Access to land


          Transportatlon                                         T..".pOrt.tlO"


               Elsctrlcity                                             Clectrklty


   T.l.communicatlons                                    T.l.com     munlcatlons


       Cost offlnancing                                       Cost of flnanclng


    Acc..s   to flnanclng              I                  Accams to flnanclng


                          OX   21K    5            11
     mTajooo2
     QTaj-2005




19.         Continued state control of the key utility and transport sector-air and rail+&
associated with low quality and high cost services. The electricity sector is plagued by the
typical problems o f noncommercial tariffs, weak finances, and low investment and maintenance,
resultinginsevere supply shortages. The aviation sector i s dominated by the national flag carrier
that also controls policy, regulation, and airport operations, resulting some o f the lowest airlift
capacity andhighest prices inCentral Asia.

20.         The Tajikistan Aluminum Plant-the country's largest enterprise by far, accounting
for 5percent of Tajikistan's GDP in 2005-has improved itspeflormance in recentyears. The
company, 100 percent owned by the state and a focus o f the Bank-supported Second Structural
Adjustment Credit, has improved its operational and financial performance steadily in recent
years. The firm has not accumulated arrears in its payments for electricity since the Second
Structural Adjustment Credit, and its profitability has steadily improved, profits amounted to


                                                      8

about US$20 million dollars in 2005.8 The company is Tajikistan's largest single taxpayer,
paying about US$30 million in taxes in 2005, up from about US$18.5 paid in 2004. The main
reason for the improved performance is the change o f management that took place in December
2004. The previous manager was removed from his post and criminal charges brought against
himbythe government. The government realizesthat the company to providemaximumbenefits
to the country needs to operate according to a modem corporate governance structure.                  It
requested the World Bank in April 2006 to assist with identifying an internationally reputable
aluminum firm that can work with the Tajikistan AluminumPlantto modernize its operations.

21.     An outstandingproblem of cottonfarm debt overhang is also impeding the eflcient
allocation of resources. To compensate for the shallow financial sector and the collapse of input
supply chains, cotton ginneries supply credit to farmers in the form o f inputs in kind, which
farmers are meant to repay through deductions in the sales proceeds when they deliver their
cotton to the gin. This leaves farmers vulnerable to exploitation by ginneries, which can
overcharge for inputs and for services provided after the cotton is delivered, such as ginning.
This burden, together with the effects o f a recent drought and the downturnin cotton prices, has
left farmers with a substantial debt roughly estimated at 5-10 percent of GDP and which is now
hinderingfurther investments to raise productivity andoutput.

22.      ThejZnancialsector remains very shallow with bank depositslow but growing. Inturn,
credit to the private sector stand at around 5.6 percent of GDP. As a consequence, small and
medium enterprises have limited access to formal credit necessary for start-up operations or
expansion.    Larger enterprises with access to the banking system face high transaction costs.
Highreal interest rates of around 15 percent reflect the tight monetary policy, a slow recovery in
public confidence in the banking system following earlier currency conversion and devaluation,
and high spreads of 9.3 percent. The latter include both the remaining inefficiencies in the
bankingsystem and a relatively highrisk premiumon credit to the private sector. The IMFand
the World Bank are planning to conduct the Financial Sector Assessment Program in 2006 to
identify key areas for strengthening o f financial intermediation.

23.      Delays in the reform of thepublic sector have limited Tajikistan's ability to translate
the recent growth into improved social werfare. The public sector is still unable to deliver
adequate social services-health    and education-for      maintaining and developing the human
capital of Tajikistan's population. Social indicators, especially in education, have continued the
post-independence decline untiljust recently. For example, in 2004 basic school attendance did
not decline for first year since independence. Economic services such as business registration
and regulation continue to be marred by Soviet-era bureaucracy and create opportunities for
corruption. Ingeneral, the low quality of public services is linkedto inappropriate organizational
structures, weak institutional capacity, poor incentives, and inadequate and inefficient use of
resources.

C. Political Economy and Governance

24.      The legacy of the civil war in Tajikistan includes a complexpolitical economy that has
constrainedprivate sector and social development. Inthe initial years, the main priority of the
government was to consolidate peace, and to ensure that a balance o f power between different
political factions was maintained. Little progress was made to undertake the b d a m e n t a l reforms
o f other members of the former Soviet Union to redefine the role of the state from central planner


     The company has been preparing financial statements according to international accounting standards
since 2002.


                                                   9

and operator of productive activities to that of policy maker, regulator, and facilitator of private
sector investment.

25.      The weaknesses and lack of ethical standards in public sector management directly
affects the public sector management and service delivery. The inability o f government
structures to prioritize policies and effectively deliver public services has resulted in disjointed
development policies that neither promote economic growth nor enhance the welfare of
population. The ineffective use o f scarce resources in health and education affect the nation's
human capital and directly impedes the ability ofTajikistan to meet MDGgoals.

26.      Early egorts to undertakepublic service reform were plagued by the use of the state
sector as a toolfor appeasementof the variouspoliticalfactions. Attempts at reform were also
stymied by collapsing public sector real wages, weak capacity, and the politicization of key
positions and functions. Moreover, the delay in adapting Soviet-era practices to the emerging
market economy left enormous space for the emergence of state capture and administrative
corruption.

27.      Tajikistan comparespoorly with other countries of the region on accountability and
control of corruption.       Indicators of government effectiveness and regulatory quality in
Tajikistan remain very weak, even compared to other Central Asian states and members of the
CIS, according to the Governance Research Indicator Country Snapshot (GRICS) of the World
Bank Institute. Poor performance in these areas impedes private sector development and public
sector performance. The govemment recognizes the need to strengthen governance bothto attract
private sector investment for growth and to improve the delivery of public services.

28.      More recently, however, the combination of sustained economic growth and political
consolidationare creating the spacefor morefundamental reform. Growth o f the enterprise
sector over time, although still with strong links to the state, has reduced the use of the state
sector as a tool for appeasement. In addition, more technically and professionally qualified
managers and senior officials in the public sector have gradually emerged. Improvements in
revenue collections have been setting the stage for improvements inpublic sector wages needed
to support a better quality cadre of civil servants. And inTajikistan-as across the region-the
demands of the electorate are shifting toward better delivery of public goods and services,
improvement ofthe business climate and, not least, a reduction incorruption.

29.      Thisgradual evolutionof thepolitical system has culminatedin a recent re-orientation
of the government from consolidation of political power to improved implementation of the
political directorate's policy agenda.        This shift has led to an increased focus on the
establishment of clear and stable rules of the game, a more professional civil service, and more
effective procedures and processes. Clearly, in some areas where the complex interaction of
vested interests and the state remain, it is expected the government will proceed quite tentatively.
But the new focus is clearly an opportunity for development partners to help Tajikistan to catch
up on its extensive agenda o f unfinished structural and institutionalreforms, including reform of
civil service andpublic administration.

30.      Tajikistan has made substantial progress in the past few years in public financial
management. Although, the June 2004 Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA),
the 2003 Country Procurement Assessment Report, and the 2005 Public Expenditure and
Institution Review concluded that Tajikistan was a high risk environment for public funds,
Tajikistan has made considerable progress since then in improvingpublic financial management.
These efforts have resulted inTajikistan achieving 8 of the required 16 HIPC indicators of public



                                                 10

financial management, putting Tajikistan in the top quintile o f HIPC countries as noted in the
recent February 2006 IMF Staff Report and IMF assessment o f public expenditure management
under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative. For details, see fiduciary aspects in chapter 4
section F.

31.      Tajikistan is making progress on other aspects of governance. The GRICS indicators
demonstrate that the country made substantial progress in several areas between 2000-04. Its
rating for government effectiveness improved by 100percent, for politicalstability by 50 percent,
and for regulatory quality by 25 percent. Data from the BEEPSalso shows that Tajikistan has
made significant improvement in governance, and classifies Tajikistan as a "gradual improver"
on governance issues.     Although Tajikistan remains a high-risk environment, the signs o f
improvement suggest that the government is serious about reform, and will continue to implement
measuresto improve governance.

32.      Asidefrom reform of public financial management, reducing corruption will require
reducing the role of the state in the enterprise sector. State involvement in productive
enterprises has resulted in waste, appropriation o f public funds for private gain, and inefficient
and outmoded industries. A reducedrole of the state inproductive enterprises combined with a
sound regulatory framework and adequate enforcement capacity would free public resources for
investment and delivery o f public services and would improve the allocation o f resources across
the economy. The government recognizes this, and i s implementing many actions that will over
time reduce the role o f the state in productive enterprises. Even where the state retains a role,
reforms to separate policymaking from operations will lead to much more commercially-oriented
operations.




                                                11

               2.       TAJIKISTAN'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY

33.       Tajikistan was thefirst CIScountry toprepare a Poverty ReductionStrategy (PRSP) in
2002, covering2002-05. The PRSP aimedto increasereal incomes, achieve a fair distribution of
the benefits o f growth, and to ensure a rise in the living standards o f the poorest. It focused on
four pillars: (a) encouraging equitable, labor-intensive economic growth, with an emphasis on
exports; (b) supporting the efficient and fair provision o f basic social services; (c) targeting
support to the poorest groups o f the population; and (d) improvinggovernance and security. The
key weaknesses o f the PRSP were its lack o f prioritization and detailed costing o f proposed
actions.

34.       Over the last three years, the government implemented key elements of the PRSP,
namely, prudent macroeconomic management policy, increasing budget allocations to the
social sectors and initiation of important reform in the delivery of social services. Public
spending on health care increased from 5.7 percent of total government expenditures in 2004 to
7.4 percent in2005. Similarly, public spending on education increased from 2.3 percent in2003
to 3.5 percent of GDP In2005. The government approved a health financing reform strategy in
2005 that envisages increased allocations to primaryhealth care andthe introduction o fper capita
funding and fees for services. A basic benefits package was introduced in 2005, although this
was later suspended because o f problems with pricing o f paid services. It is currently being
revised for re-introduction under this operation. The use o f per capita-based, as opposed to input
norm-based, allocations in the education sector i s being piloted in five districts as a first step
toward increasingefficiency andreducinginter-regional inequities.

strategy.Thegovernmentrecognizes
35.                                         thatmoremust be done to implement other elements of the
              This includes improving the business                   climate,     investing in infrastructure
(telecommunications, rural and regional roads, energy systems, and water facilities), promoting
agriculturalproductivity, and strengthening governance.

36.       Thegovernmentis nowpreparing a long term visionfor the achievementof theMDGs,
the National DevelopmentStrategy (NDS) for 2006-15.9 Incollaboration with its development
partners, the government has identified medium and long-term development priorities for the
achievement of the MDGs: (a) reform o f public sector management; (b) development o f private
sector andattracting investments; and (c) development o f humanpotential.

37.       The NDS willform the basisfor the upcoming second PRSP to cover 2006-09. The
new PRSPwill be underpinnedby a medium-term budget framework, and i s expected to integrate
all existing medium and long-term policy documents and to better prioritize and consolidate the
development programs.




     The development of the NDS is being overseen by acoordination councilwas establishedby presidentialdecree.
The council is supportedby 12sector workinggroups: (1) macroeconomic policy; (2) public administrationreform(3)
infrastructure, communicationsand industry; (4) integration into the world economy; (5) private sector development;
(6) food security and agriculture; (7) education and science; (8) health; (9) water supply and sanitation; (10) social
protection; (11) environmentalprotection; and (12) gender equality.




                                                         12

                    3.     THE DEVELOPMENTPOLICYPROGRAM

  38.     This section summarizes the key elements of the government's medium-term program
 consistent with the PRSP to address glaring weaknessesin theprivate sector environment and
 pubic sectorperformance. Taken together, these reforms appear well suited to address the urgent
,need to diversify the economy, restructure public sector institutions, and improve overall
  governance. The programmatic series of three development policy operations described in this
  document is designed to broadly support this medium-term agenda.

 A.     Pillar 1:PromotingPrivateSectorDevelopment

  39.     To sustain the recent high level of economicgrowth, Tajikistan will need to continue to
 promote private sector development through maintaining macroeconomic stability, improving
 investment climate, and improving regulatory framework in key strategic sectors (aviation,
 cotton, and electricity) over the medium and long term. These will stimulate private investment
 necessary to sustain a higher level of economic growthand reduce poverty.

  fi)     Maintaining macroeconomicstability

  40.     The government has pursued sound macroeconomic managementsince the end of the
 civil war in late 1997,as demonstratedby the successful completionof twoIMFprograms. The
  main challenge will be to maintain this stability in an economy that is vulnerable to external
  shocks due to the very narrow export base. Inthe mediumterm, however, the external prospects
  appear stable, with strong world demand projected for both cotton and aluminum. Remittances
  are also expected to continue to grow as the Russian economy benefits from high oil and gas
  prices. Over the medium term, the government has targeted a fiscal deficit (excluding externally
  financed public investment) of 0.5 percent of GDP, the maintenance of single digit inflation
  through conservative monetary policy, and a gradual accumulation of international reserves.
  Additional resources generated by ongoing tax reform (supported by the IMF), additional savings
  from debt service relief and from public sector reform will allow for an increase in social sector
  spending and a gradual increase inpublic sector wage levels, in line with the projected inflation
  targets. Regarding debt levels, the government intends to maintain its current moratorium on
  non-concessional debt and maintain externally financed public investment program at the current
  levels of around 4 percent of GDP, the latter inpart because o f absorptive capacities. As noted
  above (paragraph 12), the risks o f debt distress remainmoderate.

  (ii)  Improving the investment climate

  41.     To sustain economic growth over the medium and long-term, Tajikistan will need to
 further diversifi the economy. Realizing the potential, however, will require significant
  improvements to the private investment climate. Currently, the private sector inTajikistan must
  cope with an unclear and overly cumbersome regulatory and institutional framework that stifles
  competition, increases the cost and risk of doing business, and discourages innovation and risk
  taking.

  42.     To address these issues, the government is streamlining and simplifiing the business
  licensing and inspections regimes, and strengthening the legal and institutionalframework for
 promoting competition, and increasing the transparency of the privatization process.




                                                    13

         Reformof BusinessLicensingandInspections

43.      Licensing. The current licensing regime in Tajikistan significantly restricts market
entry, breeds corruption, and discouragesprivate investment. New businessesface numerous
diflculties in obtaining licenses.          These include the lack of comprehensive and reliable
information on the application process and criteria for approval, the need for multiple licenses,
longprocessing times, andhighcost oflicenses (including unofficial payments)."            Untilrecently,
there were 32 types and 1,000 subtypes o f business activities that require licenses in Tajikistan
which were covered in 43 laws and 41 normative acts. The need for annual renewals and the
arbitrary suspension o f licenses create additional uncertainties surrounding this process and
encourage businesses to make unofficial payments.''

44.      The 2005 Business Environment Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS) data
indicates that the process of securing business licenses and permits has not improved since
2002. However, the number ofbusinesses citing a problem with informal payments for business
licenses declined.'*      About 38 percent o f businesses surveyed in Tajikistan cited business
licensing as a problem compared with about 33 percent for the members of the CIS and 31
percent for countries of the Europe and Central Asia Region.

45.      I n 2005 the government adopted a new licensing law that reduced the number of
activities subject to licensingfrom some 1,500 to about 113, updated applicationprocessing
requirements, and harmonized licensing fees.              It also adopted a regulatory framework to
implement and administer the law. Implementation ofthis new legal andregulatory framework is
being supported by technical assistance from International Finance Corporation Private Enterprise
Partnership, Foreign Investment Advisory Service (IFC-FIAS) and the Multilateral Investment
Guarantee Agency (MIGA). However, some of the 113 activities include several subcategories
which continue collectively to pose significant barriers to entry. The government intends to
amend the current licensing law to further reduce the number of activities and streamline the
procedures and amend the administrative violation procedures code to ensure compliance withthe
amended licensing law. To ensure successful implementation, the government will develop and
implement a public communication strategy that comprises (a) a public awareness campaign, (b)
training of public officials on the new requirements under the law, and (c) periodic surveys of
businesses on progress inimplementation.

46.      Inspections.      Currently, the inspection regime in Tajikistan is an uncertain and
nontransparentprocess that can ojlen result in arbitrary suspension or closure of business.
Tajikistan's businesses are subject on average to 12 inspections per year, with each lasting an
average of 2.6 hours.13 Firms are inspected for a single issue by multiple agencies. Multiple
inspections by a single agency are also common. Although the share of firms indicating that
bribes are frequent fell between 2002 and 2005, Tajikistan continues to rank below average on
this indicator among CIS countries. For the state to adequately protect the health and safety of it
citizens, while maintaining a level playing field for investors, inspections of enterprises must be
conducted inan objective, rules-based manner inaccordance withthe intended purpose.

lo   Over 50 percent o f respondents in the 2003 IFC Private Enterprise Partnership small and medium
enterprise survey cited lack o f information as a problem.      The lack of information was most acute in
agriculture as 83 percent o frespondents cited this problem.
"    Over 33 percent o f those obtaining licenses made unofficial payments. Unofficial payments to acquire
a license inthe construction sector, characterized by large contracts, are the highest.
l2   Supported by the World Bank and EuropeanBank for Reconstruction andDevelopment.
l3 BEEPS    2005.


                                                      14

  Table2: BEEPSInspections
                       BEEPS2005   -Inspections                     47.     The government        aims     to
                                                                    reduce the frequency, duration, and
                           Numberofinspections Awrage durationof
                           inprefious12 months  inspections(hrs)    arbitrariness of inspections. To both
                                                                    monitor the process and curtail arbitrary
                           Tajikistan CIS ECA Tajikistan CIS ECA    inspections, the government introduced
  TaxInspectorate                  3.1 3.1  2.4       6.7 8.0   6.4
  Fire&Building Safety             3.1 2.0  1.4       2.9 2.2   1.7 in 2001 an Inspection Registration
  Sanitation/ Epidemiology         1.8 2.3  1.8       2.1 2.1   1.5 Book in which firms and inspectors
  Environmental                    1.3 0.8  0.6       2.0 1.1   0.8 were to record their visits.  However,
  Labor and SocialSecurity         1.1 1.0  1.0       3.6 5.3   5.0
  Municbal Police                  0.9 0.8  0.9       0.8 0.7   0.5 not all businesses were issued a
  Customs Agency                   0.3 0.8  0.8       0.5 0.6   0.6 registration book, and the inspectors
                                  11.7 10.7 8.8       2.6 2.9   2.4 continued to intimidate them into not
                                                                    recording    their   visits.I4       The
                                                                    government intends to establish new
~~


  rules and procedures for inspections through a new law oninspections and amendments to the tax
  code regarding inspections (the amendments are necessary because tax inspections constitute
  more than 50 percent o f total inspection activities). Inparallel, the government will amend the
  administrative violation procedures code to increase compliance with the new law on inspections.
  Duringthe next few years, this willbe followed bythe adoption ofnewregulations to implement
  the law, amendments of other laws governing inspections to ensure compliance with the new law,
  training of staff in inspecting agencies, and a program to publicize the law, regulations and new
  procedures among businesses. In addition, reforms will seek to further reduce inspections by
  movingfrom a system o f 100percent inspections to selective risk-based inspections. Technical
  assistance for revising and publicizing the new regulations and procedures is to be provided
  through IFC-Private Enterprise Partnership and the proposed Bank-supported Public Sector
  ReformProject.

              ImproveTransparency inPrivatizationProcessandMarketCompetition

  48.        Privatization. Whilesmall enterpriseswere completelyprivatized in 2001, medium and
  large enterprises are still beingprivatized based on the Strategic Privatization Planfor 2003-
  07. This plan aims to (a) privatize 446 medium-to-large enterprises through auctions, (b)
  privatize 102 large enterprises through tenders, and(c) restructure, introduce private participation,
  or privatize the remaining 37 strategic infrastructure and other enterprises. Those inthe first and
  second groups are expected to be privatized by 2007. Almost half of medium and large
  enterprises (about 271) were divested during2004-05 through auctions and tenders. Another 150
  are scheduled for divestiture during 2006, and 79 are planned for 2007. Restructuring plans will
  be prepared for the thirdgroup during2005-06, andimplementation will start in2007.

  49.         To stimulate lagging demand, the government is committed to assuring potential
  investors and thepublic of thefairness of theprivatization process. With the assistance of the
  World Bank, a set o f regulations for conducting privatization transactions in an effective and
  transparent manner were adopted in 2004 under the Second Structural Adjustment Credit. To
  strengthen the transparency o f the process, the government will conduct annual random
  compliance audits of privatizationtransactions to verify that regulations have been followed. The
  outcomes of these audits will be published annually, including information on progress in


  l4   IFC-Private Enterprise Project and the Swiss Economic Corporation Organization have provided
  financial support to enable the government to increase the coverage of the inspection registration books
  distributed to enterprises (from 40 percent to 80 percent). The IFC-Private Enterprise Project survey of
  small andmediumsize enterprises will monitor compliance with the regulations andprocedures.


                                                          15

implementing earlier recommendations. For 2006, the government has randomly chosen seven
transactions completed in 2004 to be audited by an independent international auditor, and will
address the deficiencies identified by the compliance review. To increase investor awarenessand
create greater demand for assets being divested, the government will undertake a publicity
campaign and disclose in national newspapers details o f past privatization transactions and
upcoming asset sales.

50.      To attract private sector particbation in strategic enterprises, the restructuringplans
for individual strategic enterprises need to be improved. The State Privatization Committee is
currently assisting sector ministries and entities developing restructuring plans for strategic
enterprises under category (c) o f the Strategic Privatization Plan. These include the TADAZ
aluminum smelter, Tajik State Airline Company, Barki Tojik (electricity distribution company),
Tajik Railways, and Tajiktelecom, andother large industrial enterprises. However, early reviews
of some o f the drafts reveal that they still need to be placed in the context o f a sector policy,
strategy, andregulatory framework. The draft plans also needto provide strongerjustification for
their call for new capital investment and to include measures to improve basic accounting and
information management. Inthis context, the government, with assistancefrom the World Bank
under the Public-Private Infrastructure Assistance Facility (PPIAF), intends to strengthen the
capacity o f the State Privatization Committee to ensure that the plans are economically feasible
and consistent with the government's broader objectives and sector policies.                The revised
restructuringplans for these enterprises are expected to be approved by the government in 2007,
while implementation o f the approved restructuringplans will be initiated insubsequentyears.

51.      Competition.       To promote free and fair competition in the market place, the
government will adopt amendments to the competition and anti-monopoly laws adopted in
1998. In most post conflict and transition countries, vested interests emerge and consolidate
market position and prevent entry and force exit, thereby undermining competition. Tajikistan is
no exception. Although the development o f adequate protection for competition is a long-term
process, early intervention i s critical, as it becomes increasingly difficult over time for the
government to reinindominant market players andvested interests.

52.      Since 1998, the government has enacted a competitionand anti-monopoly law, set up
an anti-monopoly agency and promulgated various regulations to administer the law.
However, the laws fell far short o f international standards. For example, the law didnot provide
the anti-monopoly agency with adequate enforcement powers, while providing too much right of
intervention inthe absence o f violations. Over time, the anti-monopoly agency also assumed an
enterprise support b c t i o n that diluted its institutional focus and created a significant conflict. In
addition, the law assignedresponsibilitiesfor the pricingo fnatural monopoly services to the anti-
monopoly agency. Inthe majority o f cases these natural monopolies are infrastructure enterprises
that need to be subject to a muchbroader regulatory framework thanjust price regulation.

53.      The government, with supportfrom a Japanese PHm grant, has sought to address
these issues by preparing amendments to the competitionlaw. It has transferred the enterprise
support function to the Ministry o f Economy and Trade.              The anti-monopoly agency does
continue to be involved in pricing issues for natural monopolies, but the government intends to
remove this activity from the agency as the infrastructure regulatory frameworks inthe country
develop. This will be addressed more fully when the regulations for the amended law are
prepared.     Currently the European Union i s providing technical assistance to strengthen
institutional capacity o f the anti-monopoly agency.




                                                      16

(iii) Regulatory reform in key strategicsectors

          a. Aviation

54.       Improved air links are crucial to integrate Tajikistan into the global economy.
Tajikistan i s landlocked and the distance to the nearest port i s 2,000 kilometers. Tajikistan i s
separated from the Kyrgyz Republic and China by high mountains.                  Its long border with
Afghanistan creates problems with security and drug trafficking. The movement o f people and
goods across the border with Uzbekistan is tightly controlled and results in high costs o f
transportation. Political disruptions inthe region could affect the road andrail transit and curtail
exports. Strong air linksare thus critical to long-term growth andpoverty reduction inTajikistan.

55.       Tajikistan is the on& country in theformer Soviet Union which is not served by any
major international airlines. Currently, air access to the outside world i s controlled by the
national airline, Tajik State Airline, which is also responsible for aviation policy, regulation, and
airport operations. The Tajik State Airline in2004 carried 64 percent of international air traffic.
Itis the sole carrier to destinations outside Russia, which accounts for 10percento fthe market."
Most o f the remaining traffic i s served by Russian carriers to various cities inRussia, other than
M o s ~ o w . 'Currently, the company has a fleet o f 30 aircraft inherited fiom the Soviet Republic,
               ~
most o f which are becoming obsolete. The current aviation policy is restrictive in terms o f
market access (number and types o f routes that are operated), market capture (capacity
allowances limitedby frequency o f trips andtype o f aircraft), andmarket competition (number o f
designated carriers per route).

`56.      Air travel to andfrom Tajikistan remains expensive by regional comparison. Airfares
betweenMoscow and Dushanbe are around one-third more expensive than for comparable routes
to other Central Asian destinations. Ticket distribution systems are poor and informal payments
to obtain tickets are not uncommon. The burden o f high prices and limited ticket availability
imposes significant costs on migrant workers, roughly estimated at 7 percent o f their annual net
income.

57.       The government recognizes the need to reform the aviation sector to reduce the cost
and increase the convenience of air travel. With assistance from the World Bank, the
government has conducted a comprehensive review o f the aviation sector and developed a reform
strategy. The key elements of the strategy are (a) regulatory and institutional reform, (b) gradual
expansion o f services and introduction of competition, and (c) restructuring o f the Tajik State
Airline. The first step involves removing the policy function fiom the Department o f Civil
Aviation, which will be responsible solely for technical regulation. Inparallel, the government
will carry out the legal and operational separation o f the airline, the airport, and air traffic control
services, to ensure that the costs and profits o f the various operations are transparent. The first
steps will include a financial audit o f the separate accounts and a comprehensive analysis of the
cost structure o f the company's three business entities (airline, airport, and air traffic control). A
realistic timetable for separation o f actual operations will be developed together with five-year
business plans to strengthen capacity and financial viability o f each separate entity. The latter
will include revision of the structure of fees and charges for airports and air traffic control and
marketing strategies.



      Istanbul,Munich,Almaty, Bishkek,Sharjah,andDelhi.
l6   A Chinese carrieralso operatesflightsonce a week fiomUrumchi, China.


                                                  17

58.      To provide time for the Tajik State Air company to modernize and improve its
competitive position, the government will allocate in a phased manner new and additional
route rights over a period of three years. The government has already licensed two new
international carriers to provide services to Dushanbe, a Russian airline (from Moscow) and in
January 2006 a Turkish airline (from Istanbul). The government will expand market access
during2006 and2007 by allowing at least one new international carrier to start regular flights to
and fromDushanbe duringthe next two years.

         b. Cotton

59.      Tajikistan's agriculture is dominated by a cotton sector that suffers from substantial
domestic inefJiciencies and inequities. Today, the Tajik cotton sector, traditionally, the engine
of Tajik agriculture, i s facing significant challenges.     The sector is impeding rather than
enhancing growth in agricultural production and rural poverty reduction.        Its contribution to
export earnings and tax revenue is below potential. The cotton sector's crucial role inthe Tajik
economy derives not only from its contribution to agricultural output (60 percent), export
earnings (15 percent), and tax revenue (35 percent), but also its support to the welfare o f rural
population (75 percent) anduses of irrigated and arable land(55 percent of irrigated arable land).
Growth, however, i s slow relative to other agriculture subsectors, yields are currently around half
oftheir pre-independence levels, andrural poverty is highest incotton growingareas.

60.      Growth and eflciency of the cotton sector are constrained by restrictive land tenure
rights, oligopolisticprocessing and marketing structure, underdeveloped financial services,
and distortionarypricing and contractingregulations. There are a number of underlying causes
of the low rural incomes, productivity and investment inthe sector. The most fundamental is a
land tenure system which provides farmers with only usage rights that cannot be transferred; in
some cases a collective ownership system require farmers to produce specific crops, such as
cotton. Farmers are thus unable to use the landas collateral to finance inputs, andrely heavily on
advance credit arrangements from ginneries and exporters. The second main cause is lack of
competition along the marketingchain. There is one main buyer of Tajik cotton exports, who has
strong relations with local input suppliers. Little competition exists inginning. Finally, a number
of pricing and contracting regulations that are intended to protect the farmers in fact serve to
reinforce the accumulation ofrents between the ginningand export stages, leaving farmers to lose
due to low farm-gate prices based on the export of ungraded cotton and often with inferior but
overpriced inputs.

61.     Recognizing thexhallenges, thegovernmentfinalized a CokonSector Reform Strategy
in early 2005. The first part of the strategy proposes immediate measures to resolve the current
farm debt overhang (5-10 percent of GDP). These efforts are being supported by the World
Bank under an ongoing cotton sector project, the Asian Development Bank, DFID, and other
donors. The strategy proposes to (a) revise the pricing and contracting systems, (b) encourage
alternative sources of financing for agriculture, (c) abandon the practice of local authorities of
setting cotton production targets, and (d) create the necessary framework for increasing and
encouraging competition ininputmarkets.

62.      To support the implementation of the strategy, the proposed program will assist the
government in revising the cotton pricing and introducing the universal cotton grading
standards. The revision of cotton pricing rules will allow farmers to register contracts based on
negotiated rather than only regulated prices, which are not based on production contracts with
input creditors, and with futures, rather than only spot, prices. The introduction of the universal
cotton grading system is expected to increase the price that Tajik cotton can fetch in the world


                                                  18

market and allow contracts for baled cotton to be based on FOB, and not CIF prices. The latter
restriction currently discourages the downstream processing o f cotton inTajikistan because local
processors are currently forced to pay for freight costs as if they were purchasing on the world
market. Further actions to provide incentives to farmers to boost cotton quality by strengthening
the linkbetween farmprices andthe cotton that farmers deliver to ginneries are under study.

         c. Electricity

63.       Tajikistan has vast underexploited hydroelectricity potential. The electricity sector
currently accounts for about 5 percent of GDP, and electricity is the most importantinput for the
two key export commodities: aluminum and processed cotton. Tajikistan possesses vast amounts
of hydroelectric resources of which it currently utilizes only about 5 percent. Developing this
resource would allow export o f electricity to countries within and outside o f Central Asia.

64.       Yet the country suffers from unreliable power supply and severe seasonal power
shortages. Although, the proportion of firms citing provision o f electricity as a problem in
Tajikistan has declined between 2005 and 2002, according to the BEEPS, Tajikistan's power
supply is reported as the most unreliable of all the CIS countries, with an average of 250 hours of
outages per year."

65.       Theseshortages reflect years of underinvestment andpoor_financialmanagementand
operationof thestate-owned electricitycompany,Barki-Tajik. The government invested little in
the electricity infrastructure inthe years following independence, due to the civil war and limited
fiscal  resources. As a result, physical infrastructure has deteriorated significantly. The utility
generates large commercial losses, partly due to the legacy o f supplying energy without meters,
and partlydue to the lack o f commercial orientation. The problem is exacerbated by the very low
tariffs, currently US$0.06 per kilowatt hour which are not sufficient to cover the maintenance, let
alone capital costs and contribute to demand that well exceeds supply. Moreover, the country's
largest industrial consumer o f electricity, the state-owned Tajikistan Aluminum Company, is a
chronic defaulter on its payments for electricity. The government recognizes that the situation
not sustainable, andinthe last three years, has startedto address the issues. Measures to increase
the proportion of costs paid by consumers. o f energy services were implemented in 2003,
beginning by withdrawing subsidies granted to privileged groups and increasing gas and
electricity tariffs. A s a result, the quasi-fiscal deficit induced by the energy sector declined to
about 13 percent of GDP as of end 2005 from about 30 percent in2001,

66.       Thegovernmentrecognizes that much more needs to be done topromote eflciency and
reliability of service delivery. Accordingly, the authorities have recently completed a review of
the energy sector with assistance from the Bank, and have formulated a comprehensive strategy
for developing the sector (electricity, gas, andheat) over the mediumterm. The strategy is based
on a two-track approach. The first track focuses on the domestic energy market and comprises
policy reforms and investments aimed at upgrading operating conditions and improving the
financial viability of the service providers. Policy reforms include implementing a medium-term
tariff policy, coupled with a social protection policy, covering boththe electricity and gas sectors.
It also includes institutional reforms to improve the transparency and efficiency of operations, to
facilitate electricity trade, and create the foundation for increasing private sector participation in
the sector. Priority investments include an energy loss reduction program in the electricity and
gas sectors, an energy efficiency and demand side management program, and, over the medium
term, a gas and electricity network rehabilitation program.            The second track focuses on

      Measuredby the average number of outages per year (38.2) multipliedbythe length o f outages.


                                                   19

increasing electricity exports, first using existing seasonal surpluses inthe summer, and, second,
developing newer hydroelectric capacities for export to countries like Afghanistan, China, Iran,
Pakistan and Russia. The country already exports electricity seasonally to Afghanistan and
Russia. The government intends to develop the newer hydro capacities with foreign investors,
possibly fromRussia andIran, who have made some investment commitments.

67.      The government has already begun to implement the energy strategy. Inthe summer
2005, the government doubled the summer electricity tariffs by equating them to the winter
tariffs. Inearly 2006, it raised the tariff by 70 percent for residences consuming more than 250
kilowatt hours per month. Financial and technical assistance has been mobilized with support
from the Bank and the Swiss government to reduce commercial losses inthe electricity and gas
sectors. Barki Tajik has been separated from the Ministry of Energy as a prelude to fbrther
restructuring.   An independent assessment of the proposed social protection schemes and
available options hasjust been completed.

68.      Financing for investments in hydro are being mobilized An outcome of the debt to
equity swap with the Russia, Tajikistan has secured investment commitments from Russian
investors to complete the Sangtuda hydroelectric project, which will produce electricity for export
to South Asia.     The international financial institutions, led by the Bank, are advising and
facilitating the creation o f a regional electricity market between Central Asia in general and
Tajikistan in particular, and South Asia, especially Afghanistan and Pakistan. Plans are being
prepared to buildthe necessary transmission lines for such electricity exports. These projects are
to be built, owned, and operated on a public private partnershipbasis. On the basis of these
schemes, about 1,000 gigawatt hours of electricity could be exported from Tajikistan to
Afghanistan as early as 2007/08, and roughly 5,000 gigawatt hours could be exported to Pakistan
after the Sangtuda project is built.

69.      The proposed operation will support several policy actions over the medium term.
These include (a) restructuring o f the electricity sector by separating the policy making from
commercial operations (Barki Tajik),        (b) implementing a schedule for electricity tariff
adjustments for 2007-10 to gradually move toward cost recovery levels, and (c) implementing a
social protection measure for the vulnerable groups to ensure access to a basic level of service.

B.     Pillar 2: PublicSectorReformandImprovingPublicServiceDelivery

70.      The government is now committed to implementing reforms of the public sector to
address the governance issues highlighted in chapter 1. The government adopted a
comprehensive public sector reform strategy in March 2006. The strategy includes restructuring
of government institutions, civil service reform including wage reform,               local public
administration, and public financial management.         In addition, the government has begun
implementing sector wide reforms inhealth and education to improve access and quality ofpublic
delivery. The medium term reformprogram is described inmore detail below.

fi) Publicsectormanagementreform

71.      Tajikistan retains a government structure and system of public administration with
many features of the former Soviet model. The system is dominated by the presidential
administration, and a large number of small ministries and subordinated bodies, including large
state-owned enterprises, and a broad network of subordinated sector units at the oblast and rayon
levels. Roles and functions are not clear, duplication is extensive, and the lines separating the
state and private sectors are often blurred. Ministerial agencies at the local level are subject to


                                                  20

dual subordination, as they are requiredto report to their corresponding central ministries and to
local government administration. As a result, the delineation o f powers i s unclear, which hinders
the effectiveness o f the state agencies at the local level. The institutional fragmentation and
complexity also severely impede budget planning and inparticular translation o f strategic policy
objectives into budget allocation decisions.          The lack o f progress in reorganization and
reallocationo f functions may be due inpartto vested interests that fear losing from the reforms.

72.      Thegovernment is currently addressing the aboveproblems by reforming its system of
public management. The government adopted on March 13, 2006 an overarching Public
Administration Reform Strategy that provides the basis for the rationalizing and improving the
management of the public sector. The strategy has a long-term time frame and short and
medium-term action plans. It takes a broad approach to institutional reform, addressing
institutional reorganization, budget management, regulatory management, and human resource
management, and proposes measures to strengthen accountability and transparency in public
sector management. The Bank through its forthcoming Public Sector ReformProject and Public
Financial Management Reform Project will support the implementation, and monitoring and
evaluation o f the public administration reform strategy. The proposed operation will support
selected measures to rationalize core public administration structures, reform the civil service
management and wage system, and improve public financial management, specifically the
mediumterm expenditure framework (MTEF).

     a. Rationalizationof CorePublicAdministrationStructures

73.      The government will review functions to identify and eliminate duplication and
fragmentation of responsibilities. The review and the restructuring o f individual agencies over
time should create a more transparent and efficient public administration. As a first step, the
government has prepared and submitted to the Bank reform plans for the Civil Service Agency,
MinistryofFinance, andMinistryofLabor andSocialProtection, withthe aimofrealigningtheir
organization andmanagement.

74.      The government intends to complete the rationalization of government organization
over themedium term. In2007, the government plansto complete a horizontal functional review
o f the central and local government agencies to reduce levels o f duplication and fragmentation in
the allocation of functions.''    To strengthen policy making function, the government will adopt a
resolution to (a) clearly allocate responsibilities for budget preparation and execution, (b) clearly
assign to one institution the responsibility for private sector development policy issues, and (c)
rationalize structures for public investment planning. The government in2008 will adopt a time-
bound planfor restructuring o f all central ministries andpilot hukumats over the mediumterm, in
line with the objectives of the public administration reform strategy. Reforms o f the structures o f
the Civil Service Agency, Ministry o f Finance, and Ministry o f Labor and Social Protection will
be supportedbythe World Bank-supportedPublic Sector ReformProject.

     b. CivilService Reform

75.      As with most former Soviet republics, civil service reform has been diflcult and
challenging in Tajikistan. The civil service laws passed since independence have not been
effective in clarifying the separation o f elected officials, political appointees and career civil
servants, leading to an unclear salary differentiation mechanism for civil servants. The post-

''   For example, the function o f supporting private sector development is currently divided over at least
three institutions, the budget formulation andmanagement process over two institutions.


                                                    21

independence period saw a dramatic decline in public sector real wages in Tajikistan, which
eventually led to an erosion o f the corps o f qualified personnel, widespread administrative
corruption, and the development of an accepted, but largely unregulated, system o f formal and
informal payments for public service^.'^       Wage levels remain extremely low even after o f two
rounds o f across the board wage increases o f an average 40 percent inboth 2004 and 2005. The
government did manage to reduce the size of the civil service from 20,000 to approximately
16,000 staff at the central and local levels, and draw a clear distinction between core civil service
positions and contractual and support staff. The first stage o f the civil service reform does not
envisage any retrenchmento f civil servants.

76.       Wage reform.       Tajikistan's civil service wage system suflers from a lack of
transparency, and is highly compressed. The wage structure for civil servants comprises base
salaries, monthly regular supplements, allowances, bonuses, and extra-budgetary payments. The
number o f supplements and allowances i s large and their total makes up 75 percent or more o f
total net pay, a very low compression ratio that discourages officials from seeking a civil service
career or aspiring to take on functions with higher-level responsibilities. This problem has been
aggravated by the introduction o f the qualification rank supplement, which is calculated as a
fraction o fthe minimumwage, and thus poses serious fiscal risks inits current form. Further, the
wage levels remain extremely low, even when recognizing that base pay levels generally
constitute no more than 25-30 percent o f real earnings. The low wage levels encourage staff
providingcore public servicesto charge additional fees for their services.

77.     International experience suggests that successful wage system reform should be
carried out in a phased manner. For example, the government o f Serbia implemented the
decompression of the pay system through gradual andphased increases of salaries o f government
employees, startingwith the increase o f wages o f top officials and gradually stretchingthe system
to benefit officials at the level o f head o f department and eventually head o f unit?' This process
was followed with similar success in the former Yugoslav Republic o f Macedonia, Montenegro
and Russia."

78.     I n addition to the overall Public Administration Reform Strategy, the government
intends to adopt a specijic strategy to reform public sector wage policy. Since 2004 the
government has been developing a new transparent and predictable civil service wage system,
aimed at linkingrewards to performance and at creating improved career and earnings prospects
for public officers. The introduction o f the new wage system inNovember 2005 on a pilot basis
constitutes a significant step toward building a professional civil service, although full
implementation i s expected to take an additional four or five years. The new wage system to be
pilotedinthe first year o f the proposed program will (a) integrate all bonuses and allowances, (b)
decouple the calculation o fthe incrementalwage for qualificationranks from the minimumwage,
(c) introduce in a phased manner decompression of wages to better reward those that hold
positions o f higher complexity and responsibility, and (d) change the status o f technical staff in


l9  The practice of fees for services was formalized by a constitutional amendment in 2003 but it is not
well regulated.
2o  The new levels ofbase salariesfor elected, appointed officials and civil servants were establishedas of
December 2004. Civil servants' base salaries are planned to be increased in four phases from December
2004 till October 2005. Inaddition, the government intends to target a special group of civil servants that
are considered essential; those civil servants whose job descriptions include work on legal drafting and
harmonization are benefiting more during this transition phase.
21  See World Bank, "Public ExpenditurePolicies inSouth EasternEurope," Report 33400-ECA, 2005.



                                                    22

  the ministries to contract staff. The government plans to roll out the new wage system to all
  central ministries on April 1,2006.

  79.      Thegovernment intends to implement additional wage reforms over the medium term.
  The government i s planning to introduce on January 1, 2007 the second step in decompression
  that specifies a 1:4 decompression ratio between specialist and deputy minister. It is expected to
  introduce on January 1, 2008 a new central wage model (based on categories, bands and steps,
  and integrating a years of service component) and the third step in decompression, which
  specifies a 1:4 decompression ratio between specialist and head of department. Finally, it plans
  to implement on January 1, 2009 the monetization o f benefits and nonwage bill spending on
  salaries.

  80.      Civil service management.       In 1998, parliament enacted a new civil service law.
  However the law does not provide for a clear separation of elected officials, political appointees,
  and career civil servants. Inaddition, the job classification scheme is too general, consisting of
  only four legislated categories and a subjectively applied system o f qualification ranks within
  them, Also the lack o f a clear delineation o f the civil service makes it impossible to define a
  policy to address the problem of l o w civil service wages and relatedrisks of corruption.

  81.      International experience shows the importance of having a well-developed central
  management agencyfor the civil service. Russia, which so far has not established a core civil
  service agency, has faced significant delays in the implementation o f its civil service reform
  program. However, states that have invested in developing core management structures for the
  civil service, including Armenia, Slovakia and Kazakhstan, have performed consistently better in
  international reviews andassessments andare models inthe region.

  82.      A revised civil service law is currently under discussion in the Tajikparliament which
  addresses many of these weaknesses, including provisions to clearly separate political from
  civil service appointments and to reform the wage system. Subsidiary regulations need to be
~




  developed and the capacity of the civil service department to monitor the implementation of this
  legal framework needs to be strengthened. Established in 2001, the civil service department is
  now almost fully staffed.    However, the department still requires significant strengthening. A
  restructuring plan prepared for the agency in 2005, which aims to strengthen its power and
  capacity is being considered by the govemment.

  83.      The government has also adopted new regulations on competitive recruitment and
  strengthened the civil service register-a key tool for merit-based management of human
  resources. Competitive recruitment practices, although successllly piloted in 2005, require
  further development, as do management tools such as the civil service register. Adoption of
  secondary legislation will enable implementation of the new job classification and wage grid in
  all government institutions and implementation ofmerit-based recruitment and promotion. Merit-
  based criteria for senior management positions will be developed and adopted.             To ensure
  effective human resource management, the govemment intends to introduce a computerized civil
  service register and link to the payroll system that will be supported by the Public Sector Reform
  Project.

           c. PublicFinancialManagement Reform

  84.      Tajikistan'sprudent fiscal policy has facilitated macroeconomic stabilityfor growth,
  but has not been accompanied by the commensurate quality of publicfinancial management.
  Analytical work of the Bank's 2004 Public Expenditure and Institution Review and the 2004


                                                    23

CFAA showed weak linkages between budget allocations and medium-term policies and
priorities presented in the PRSP and other government development strategies.               Deviations
between the approved budgets and the realized budget have also been significant. The CFAA
further highlighteddeficiencies in public financial management. The government has started to
address the weaknesses identified in these studies. It established a budget committee in 2003,
which has improved the budget process, providing greater scope for sectoral participation. To
improve capacity for internal and external audit, the State Financial Control Committee,
established under the Second Structural Adjustment Credit, i s currently undertaking a capacity
building exercise through a twinning arrangement with the U.K.National Audit Office, which
will assist indeveloping the legal framework and methodology inthe move towards international
standards, The Bank-supported Public Reform Project will support further work inthis area. In
addition, the govemment has recently enacted a modem procurement law. A grant from the
Bank's InstitutionalDevelopmentFundis supportingimplementationofthe newlaw.

85.      Over the last few years the government has made some progress in implementing
budget reforms.      Some o f these include strengthening budget preparation, presentation and
management systems, including the establishment o f a budget management information system
(the Tajik budget system), the adoption o f the 1Csector Government Financial Statistics 1986
classification, the preparation o f the program-based budgets at the level o f key budget
organizations, and enhanced ability to monitor budget execution in a more comprehensive
manner.     A multiyear budget was introduced and a cash management unit was recently
established. All sector strategies were integratedinto a single document-the        N D S that serves as
a basis for the government medium-term strategy that will be aligned with the government
budget. The government has also adopted a multiyear perspective infiscal planning, expenditure
policy, and budgetingby establishing a budget commission that will play an important role in
ensuring the budget reflects policy priorities.

86.      However, past attempts to introduce an MTEF have not been successful.                     The
institutional and legislative framework on which an MTEF couldbe built i s lacking. Further, the          '

government analytical and technical capacity i s weak. As a result, a macroeconomic fiamework
both for policy development andbudget formulation i s often unrealistic, and resource ceilings for
sectors are not well communicatedto line ministries?'

87.      The government is committed to deepen publicfinancial management reform. This i s
expected to further improve consistency between the budget and government policy priorities,
improve transparency and accountability o f public financial management, and increase the
efficiency o f public spending in priority areas. Donors (European Union, DFID, World Bank,
Asian Development Bank, and IMF) intend to support strengthening o f budget management and
an MTEF to improve predictability o f the budget and ensure priority and efficiency o f public
spending. The government will adopt an actionplanto implement the MTEF. Itplans to adopt a
budget strategy paper during 2007-08 that highlights key priority areas and defines resource
envelopes for sectors. It will then develop the strategies for key sectors consistent with the
MTEF. Over the medium term, the government plans to modernize treasury management,
accounting, and auditing with the support o f the development partners.            The government i s
working with the Bank inpreparing two new projects (Public Sector Reform Project and Public
Financial Management Modernization Project) to further strengthen the country's public financial
management system.


22  According to the IMF assessmentof Tajikistan's public financial management system, priorities are to
improve organizationalbudget classification,introduce a rule-basedsystemfor intergovernmental relations,
address aggregate fiscal risks, and strengthenthe linkbetween policies andbudgeting.


                                                     24

(ii)    Public service delivery

         a. PrimaryHealth Care

88.     Health outcomes and the quality of health care services have been deteriorating in
Tajikistan since independence in 1991. For instance, Tajikistan's infant mortality rate is around
90, its under-5 mortality rate is around 120 both per 1000 live births, and the tuberculosis
incidence is around 70 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. These indicators are among the poorest in
countries of the region. Tajikistan has one o f the lowest levels o f public spending in health
(around 1percent of GDP in2005) among CIS countries of similar income levels. Under funding
is a key contributor to poor outcomes and quality. In addition, Tajikistan's health system also
suffers from a number of structural weaknesses common to post-Soviet and transition economies,
including an under-emphasis on primary health care, an excessively large hospital network,
poorly paidhealth workers, andthe insidious prevalence of informal payments for services.

89.     I n May 2005, the government adopted a national healthfinancing strategy, based in
part on an earlier healthpolicy noteprepared by the WorldBank. The strategy aims to improve
fiscal sustainability, transparency, andaccountability inthe health sector. Its key elements are to:

e       Reallocateresources towardprimary care, including targetingupcomingwage increases
         in the health sector to primary health care workers. Combined with greater primary
         health care worker accountability, this is expected to stem the current out-migration of
         primaryhealth care workers, reduce informal payments, and improve service delivery.

e       Implement a basic benefitspackage that includesfree primary care and co-paymentsfor
         hospitalcare. The basic benefits package is expected to increaseresources, formalize co-
         payments andpaid services, regulate out-of-pocket payments, and increase accountability
         for the use o f private resources in h0spitals.2~ In addition, the hospital budget will be
         defined on the basis of public and private sector contributions, and hospitals will be
         expected to allocate increased income for the financing for wages, performance bonuses,
         andother variable inputs.

e       Introduceafinancing mechanism that is more transparent and is based on a needs-based
        formula calculated on the basis ofpopulation at rayon level. The implementation of this
         reform is expected to address historical patterns of inequity under the former input-based
         financing system and improve allocation o f limitedresources.

e        Implement systematic and strict monitoring of the basic benefits package and paid
         service by the Ministry of Health. This will ensure adherence to operational guidelines
         aimed at improvingaccountability o fhealthcare workers andallocation ofresources.

90.      The government has already increased public spending on health care in Tajikistan
from 0.9 percent of GDP in 2004 to 1.3 percent in 2005. The expected increases inwage and
salaries fkom the sector financing reform will be accompanied by the gradual reform o f the wage
andjob classification systeminthe health sector over the nextthree to four years.




23. A simulation exercise for the 2006 hospital budgets showed that applying the new basic benefits
package, should be able increase the resources available to the hospital sector by 53 percent over their
current public budgets.


                                                 25

  91.     Implementation of health care reforms has begun on a pilot scale. The basic benefits
 package was rolled out nationwide in August 2005. However, negative feedback from health
 workers and patients becauseo f misuse and inefficient use o f fee revenues prompted a temporary
  suspension. The government i s now introducing a unified methodology for computing fees for
 paid services and co-payments, developing guidelines on the use o f additional revenues by
 hospitals, and strengthening the monitoring system.

  92.     The proposed operation will support reform of primary health care through
 reallocation of the increases in the wage bill infavor of primary health care over the medium-
 term.     The operation will also support complementary reform measures including the
 reintroduction of basic benefits package, introduction o f a new job classification and wage grid
  system for primary health care workers, and separation o f funding flows and accountability
 mechanisms betweenprimaryand secondary care. Once these reforms are initiated, the proposed
 operation will support the introduction o fper capita allocations inprimary health care.

  93.     Theproposed operation complements other projects in the health sector. The World
 Bank-financed community and basic health project (Board approval was December 2005), and
 projects supported by other donors (USAID-financed Zdrav++ Project, Swiss-financed Sin0
 Project, Asian Development Bank-financed Health Sector Reform Project) will provide the
 necessary support for capacity building, monitoring, and implementation o f the reforms supported
 through the proposedoperation.

               b. Education

  94.     Education outcomes in Tajikistan have declined steadily from independence, as
  demonstrated by falling enrollment and completion rates. In 2004, for the first time since
  independence, the basic school attendance rate did not fall, remaining at 88 percent. Education
  infrastructure has not been maintained-one quarter o f the schools does not have heating system
  and over a third do not adequate sanitation. Teachers are poorly paid, learning materials are
  inadequate and inappropriate, andcurriculum andteaching methods are outdated.

  95.     Public spending on education in Tajikistan remains comparatively low at only 3.5
 percent of GDP in 2005. This was 20 percent o f the 1992 share. The wage bill at 80 percent o f
 total education spending is crowding out investment in school facilities, teaching and learning
  materials, and operating costs. The norm-based allocation o f funding to local governments has
  encouraged an inefficient allocation o f resource^?^

  96.     Under the implementation of the first PRSP (2002-OS), the government increased
  resources allocated for education from 2.3 percent of GDP in 2000 to 3.5 percent in 2005.
 Teachers' salaries were raised on an average by 25 percent inSeptember 2004 and by another 65
 percent in January 1, 2005.*'      More recently, the government adopted a National Strategy for
 EducationDevelopment for 2006-15, and has initiated reformo f education financing.

 fivepilotI rayons. However, a recent review o f implementation found two shortfalls: (a) only the
  97.      n 2005 and 2006, a system ofper capita allocations was implementedin the schools in



  24  Input-based norms such as the number of teachers required for the curriculum at each grade and the
'number of aon-teaching staff required for each school encourage the inflation of enrolment numbers,
 inefficient formation of classroomgroups and use of shifts as a mechanismto increaseteacherpayments.
  25  The latter increase was also meant to finance an increase inthe teaching load from 14 to 16 hours per
 week.


                                                     26

very limited non-wage resources were actually allocated on a per capita basis; and (b) the
flexibility to use resources at the school level i s limitedby the budget law. The government now
plans to allocate the full package o f wage and non-wage resources to schools inpilot rayons, and
increase their authority to hire non-teaching staff on a contract basis and to allocate their own
budgets against the individual line items. Inthe mediumterm, the government intends to adopt
new regulations to strengthen accountability and financial management at the school level and
rollout the per capita financing in phases. The rollout of per capita financing i s expected to
improve the efficiency o f resource use and reduce regional disparities in education attainment.
These policy actionswill be supported bythe proposed operation.

98.       Other measures envisaged under the National Strategy for Education Development
that will be supporied by theproposed operation include reform of the wage system. (including
defining teachingloads as close aspossible to afull time equivalent) and introduction of a new
remuneration and promotion system that compensates education workers based on level of
responsibili(y, qualifications and performance.        The government will also complete a school
mapping for the whole country in 2007, with financial assistance from the Fast Track Initiative
Trust Fund. This map will serve as a basis for a rationalization plan for school infrastructure to
be implemented startingin2008.




                                                   27

                                 4.     PROPOSEDOPERATION

A.    Descriptionofthe Operation

Operation description

99.      Programmatic Approach. This is the first of the three programmatic development
policy operations consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy (Country Partnership
Strategy) finalized in July 2005. The full details o f the PDPGl policy actions as well as the
tentative policy actions for PDPG2 and PDPG3 are specified in the policy matrix and the
government's Letter Development Policy which are attached as annex 1 and 2 to this document.
The policy actions for PDPG3 (to a lesser extent those for PDPG2) are as yet preliminary andwill
be more firmly articulated as preparation o f the follow-on programs proceeds once much o f the
ongoing analytical work i s completed, and the policy dialogue matures.              Furthermore,
Tajikistan's vulnerability to external shocks may require an adjustment in the medium-term
policy agenda inresponseto changing environments.

Objectivesand themes

100.     Development objectives. The development objectives o f the proposed PDPG are to
improve the environment for private sector development, and to improve overall fhctioning o f
the public sector and the delivery of key public services. The proposed program i s aligned with
the first two pillars o f Tajikistan's PRSP.

101.      Themes of the operation: To achieve bothobjectives, the programrequires maintenance
o f macroeconomic stability. To promote private sector development, the program will support
regulatory and institutional reforms in key strategic sectors (Le. aviation, cotton and energy),
improve investment climate and transparency o f the privatization process. To improve overall
fhctioning o f the public sector and delivery o f public services, the program will support public
sector reforms aimed at improving public sector management, the efficiency and effectiveness o f
public spending. The program will also support reforms ineducationand health sector policies to
improve access, quality, and equity of services. The table below lists the core policy actions
agreedwith the government for PDPG1andPDPGZ.




                                                28

Table3: Core policyactionsunder ProgrammaticDevelopmentPolicy Operations 1and 2
                                  PDPGlCorePriorActions                      PDPG2Core PriorActions
                    IGPRIVATESECTORDEVELOPMENT
                        Submit to Darliament amendments to the current      Adopt the necessarymeasuresto
licensing and           licensing law to reduce entrybarriers               ensurethe implementation ofthe
inspections             satisfactory to IDA.                                amended licensing law, including:
                        Submit to parliament a law to reducethe scope       (a) apublic awareness campaign
                        o f inspections and increase accountabilityof       (including publication and public
                        inspectionofficers and submit amendmentsto          dissemination through mass
                        the tax code regulating the activities oftax        media), and (b) training ofpublic
                        inspectors satisfactory to IDA.                     officials on the newrequirements
                                                                            under the law (including training
                                                                            programby Civil Service
                                                                            Department).
                                                                            Submit to parliament amendments
                                                                            to all laws to ensure compliance
                                                                            with the law on licensing.
                                                                            Submit to parliament amendments
                                                                            to all laws to ensure compliance
                                                                            withthe new law on inspection.
                        Adopt a government resolutionto remove               Bythe end ofDecember 2006,
                        policy makinghnction from Department of             issue and implement government
                        Civil Aviation and assign to another                decree on separation of policy
                        governmental agencyby end 2006;                     makingand technical regulation
                        Adopt a government resolutionto establisha          activities in civil aviation
                        timetable by end 2006 for the legal and             acceptableto IDA.
                        operational separationo fthe airline, airport, and
                        air traffic controlmanagement by2008; and
                        Allow at least one new internationalcarrier to
                        start regular flights to and from the city o f
                        Dushanbe.
Cotton                  Adopt a government resolutionto introducethe        Amend the existing technical
                        Universal Cotton Grading System.                    regulationsto ensure compatibility
                                                                            with new internationalcotton
                                                                            grading standards and cotton
                                                                            pricing system satisfactory to
                                                                            IDA.
                    CTOR REFORMAND IMPROVINGPUBLIC5                       RVICEDELIVERY
                        Adopt a public sector reform strategy                Implement first set o f short-term
reform                  satisfactory to IDA.                                 measures as specified instrategy
                                                                             matrix.
                        Adopt a presidentialdecree for the core wage         Implementthe second phasein
                        systemreform satisfactory to IDA                     wage decompression as agreed
                        Agree on a second phase indecompressionof            withIDA.
                        wages for 2007.
                        Adopt presidentialdecreethat assigns greater         Adopt a government decree that
service delivery:       share ofwage billincreases inhealth to primary       expands the primary health care
Health                  care in2006.                                         share o fwage increasesinhealth
                                                                             in2007as agreedwithIDA.


B.     Linkages

Link to Country Partnership Strategy

102.      The proposed three Programmatic Development Policy operations based on the
medium-term program described in this document form the backbone of the Country
Partnership Strategy lending program for Jiscal 2006-09.                  The new Country Partnership
Strategy, discussed by the Board on July 26, 2005, focuses on maintaining growth in the short


                                                       29

term and buildinga foundation for growthinthe future. Developed inclose consultation withthe
government, it focuses on three strategic objectives: (a) improve business opportunities in rural
and urban areas, (b) enhance the quality o f health and education, (c) improve the delivery of
energy services and exploit the country's hydropower potential. Due to limited IDA resources
and taking into consideration the Bank's comparative advantages, the Bank's assistance to
Tajikistan will be highlyselective.

103.     To achieve the objectivesof Country PartnershipStrategy, theproposed operation will
support a selective cross-cutting reform program. To improve business opportunities in rural
andurbanareas, the operation will support reforms aimed at streamlininglicensing andinspection
regimes, ensuring greater transparency of the privatization process, promoting market
competition, and improving transport. The operation will contribute to enhancing quality o f
education and health by supporting the reform o f the budget allocation mechanism (per capita
allocation), and the other reforms planned for these sectors. The operation will also support
energy sector reforms aimed at improving the delivery o f energy services and increasing the
supply of electricity exports. These reforms will complement the Bank's ongoing and planned
investment projects in public administration, education, health, agriculture, and energy. The
policy matrix included inthe annex 2 shows how each o f the proposedreformprograms i s linked
to the objectives ofthe Country Partnership Strategy.

Relationship with analytical work and other Bank operations

104.     The proposed reforms are based on extensive Bank analytic and advisory activities
carried out during thepast twoyears. A public expenditure and institutional review, a country
procurement assessment report, a country financial accountability assessment, a public and civil
service wage note, and a remittances note have informed the public sector reform program. A
trade diagnostic, an investment climate assessment, an aviation sector note, an energy utility
reform review, the Central Asia Regional Electricity Export Potential Study, and an Agricultural
Development Strategy have highlighted key reforms requiredto attract private sector investment.
A poverty assessment update has deepened understanding of poverty and its dynamics, and is
important for the design o f policy reforms that effectively reduce poverty. Annex 3 shows the
linkage between Bank's analytical and advisory work and the reform actions of the proposed
operation.

105.     The proposed operation supports policy reforms that are critical to the success of
ongoing andplanned investment and technicalassistanceoperations. The proposed operation
will support adoption o f policies critical for reform o f the public administration; capacity to
implement the reforms will be the focus o f a Bank-financed Public Sector Reform Technical
Assistance Project. Similarly, the program supports policy reforms in the education, health,
agriculture, and energy sectors-all    areas o f recent or forthcoming Bank-supported projects.
Reforms to improve the investment climate and to redefine the role o f the state in the economy
will complement support ofthe IFC and MIGAto promote private sector development. Annex 3
shows the linksbetweenPDPGpolicy actions and other investment operations.

Collaboration with theIMF and other donors

106.     TheProgrammaticDevelopmentPolicy Grant and the new IMF's PRGF complement
each other. The Bank takes the lead and provides background to the IMF program in private
sector development and privatization, enterprise reforms, farm productivity, and regulatory
reforms (see details in annex 4). The Bank and the Fund share responsibility in public sector



                                                30

management, budget planningand execution, financial sector reforms, and utilities' reform. The
Fund and the Bank cooperate on fiscal policies and reduction o f quasi-fiscal deficits, which
requires close cooperationwiththe Bank's programs for health, education andinfrastructure. The
Fundalso leads in tax reform, and inrevenue and expenditure management. Inthese areas the
Bank takes into account the Fundpolicy recommendations andensures consistency betweenthem
and its own measures. Inaddition, there is close coordination between the Bank and the Fund
concerning the public sector reform agenda. The Fundand the government agreed on a policy
matrix in February 2005, which includes the broad agenda of the public administration reform
component o f the proposed operation.

107.    Coordination with other donorprograms. The Bank is also coordinatingclosely with
other development partners in Tajikistan. The proposed operation i s expected to complement
programs of the European Union, Asian Development Ban, and DFID in specific areas. For
instance, the Bank is supporting the development o f a new competition policy, which the
European Union will help to implement through capacity building. The Asian Development
Bank will support the implementation of the new cotton grading system. The Bank i s supporting
the development of policies to improve the management o f the transportation system; the Asian
Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Kuwaiti and Saudi Funds will support
the construction of infrastructure. Inaddition, the proposed operation introducespolicy measures
that would improve access to Tajikistan, while the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (with restructuredprograms based on discussions with the Bank) will finance and
support their implementation. The Swiss government and the Japan Bank for International
Cooperation have both expressed an interest inco-financing the proposed operation, and will be
partners inmonitoring implementationof the prior actions. For details see annex 3.

C.    Lessons Learned

108.    The design of theproposed operation reflects several lessonsfrom implementation of
theprevious CASin Tajikistan, other operations in Tajikistan, andpolicy-based loans in other
countries. Theseinclude:

        Governmentownershipof the reform program is essentialfor success. Extensive
        experience demonstrates that government ownership o fthe reformprogrami s the single
        most important criterion for success. Insufficient government commitment to the reform
        program delayedthe implementation o fthe second Structural Adjustment Grant by 1`/z
        years, affecting the implementationandeffectiveness o f the CAS. The medium-term
        reform programo fthe proposed series o fprogrammatic operation has been designed in
        close collaboration with key relevant ministries andthe Executive Office o f the President
        Administration.

        Focus on a limited set of key reforms. The proposedGrant supports deep reforms ina
        few selectedareas. The programincludes only the criticalactions that the government
        believes that it canrealistically implement at this time, backedby sector-specific projects,
        capacity-building, and communication campaigns. These are the reforms that the
        government i s already committed to andhasbeencarrying out. The proposedoperation
        contains ten core prior actions (see table 3) that are criticalto the achievement o f
        development objectives o f the Grant.

        Build capacityfor implementationof the reform agenda. Passageo f legislation and
        adoption o f strategies have often hadlittle impact inTajikistan, because o f lack o f
        institutional capacity to implement reforms. The proposed operation is accompanied by a


                                                 31

         Public Administration Technical Assistance Projectthat focuses onbuildingcapacity o f
         the public administrationfor implementation.

    a    Build eflective partnershipswith theIMF and other donors in designingtheproposed
         Grant. The Bankhas consulted with the IMF, the Asian Development Bank, the
         European Commission, andthe majorbilateral donors inTajikistan to ensure that the
         prior actions o f all policy-basedoperations are harmonizedto the extent possible andthat
         the programbenefits fully from the analytical work and knowledge of others.

     a   Offer a series of annual single tranche budget support operations, rather than multi-
         tranche operations. Single-tranche operations, which are approved only after the
         government has implementedagreedreforms, require boththe government and the Bank
         to berealistic about what is possible, andthen to agree on a programof completed
         actions that i s acceptableto bothsides. The proposed programi s a single tranche
         operation to be followed by two additional single-tranche Programmatic Development
         Policy Grants, eacho fwhich fwthers the reforms supported bythe previous operation.
         This approach allows the government andthe Bankto adapt the medium-tem program as
         new informationbecomes available and feasible options for realizing the intended
         development goals change. Italso ensures that the flow o f funds i s predictable andthat
         the technical assistancerequiredto implement andsustain reforms is available.

D. Poverty and Social Impact

109.     Poverty and social impact of this operation is likely to bepositive. Inthe short term, the
proposed reforms in health and education are likely to result in improved access and quality o f
services to the poor. Similarly the impact of the revised energy tariffs will include special
provisions to avoid negative impacts on the poor with a subsidized rate for the vulnerable
population. Similarly, reforms in the aviation sector will improve access and reduce cost of
transport for low-income migrants. In the medium term, reforms proposed in public
administrationreform strategy should yield benefits through improved public sector management.
The planned reforms do not envisage further retrenchment o f personnel in the short-term;
however, if implementation o f the medium-term measures were to result in the need for
adjustment in the size o f public employment a PSIA would be undertaken to facilitate the
adoption o fmitigation measures for vulnerable population.

110.     Poverty and social impact anabses have recently been carried out to ensure that the
governmentand thedevelopmentpartners understandthepotential impact ofpolicy reforms on
specijZcgroups. The studies include an assessment o f the potential impact of changes in energy
tariff policy, and a study investigating the impact o f changes in policies affecting the cotton
sector. These studies have informed the design o f the reform program in several ways. For
example, the study of energy tariff policy, completed in April 2005, recommended that the
government adopt a three-band tariff structure that will allow the poor to pay subsidizedrates for
energy, while ensuring full-cost recovery for the energy sector through imposition o f higher
tariffs onthe better off.26 The government has now designed a new tariff structure consistent with
this letter of development strategy for the energy sector that will be implemented gradually
startingin2007 andi s expected to be completedin2010.




26   World Bank. "Provision of Energy Services to the Poor: Design of Sustainable Social Protection
Schemes underEnergySector Reforms." April 2005, WashingtonD.C.


                                                  32

111.    A poverty and social impact analysisfor the cotton sector, completed in June 2004,
estimated that cottonyields would increasefrom the current 1.9 tonsper hectare to 2.8 tonsper
hectare, ifall the necessary reforms were carried out. This would translate to almost US$lOO
million inadditional revenue from cotton sales. The study proposed focusing inthe mediumterm
on reforming contracting, pricing, and standards, which would benefit local farmers and farm
workers?'   This study also notes that such reforms will be easier to implement than resolving
farm debt or pursuinglandreform.

112.    Additional planned poverty and social impact analyses include:

        0   Impacto f adopting a new cotton pricingscheme and international cotton grading
            standards onrural welfare;
        0   Impact o fthe proposedintroduction o fhigher energy tariff, for 2007-10 on
            employment opportunities and income level o f aluminumworkers;
        0   Impact o fthe reform inper capita allocation onthe quality o fprimaryeducationfor
            the poor; and
        0   Impact o fthe introduction o f the basic benefitspackage for primary health care on
            the poor.

113.    I n general, reforms supported by the proposed operation are expected to stimulate
economicgrowth and reducepoverty. For example, cotton farmers are expected to benefit from
the improvementsintroducedunder the proposedprogram. Resource allocation within the energy
sector and across the economy i s expected to improve through cost recovery tariff reform. The
private sector will benefit from the aviation sector reforms as they will reduce the cost of
transportation, stimulate investment and improve profitability o f enterprises. In addition, it i s
expected to improve consumers' welfare and promote the free movement o f labor. The poor will
be assured o f access to affordable and quality primaryhealth care through the implementation of
the basic benefits package. Similarly, the population will have better quality education through
reform of the per capital allocation.

114.    The proposed operation is closely aligned with the PRSP objectives. The measures
supported under the program are intendedto increaseaccess to quality social services by the poor.
Rural and remote schools will continue to receive input-based funding until their special needs
arisingfrom small class sizes can be addressedthrough the per capita fundingscheme. The shift
o f resources to primary health care will improve access to basic services by the poor. Increasing
wages pf primary health care providers should help to reduce and gradually eliminate informal
payments o fpatients to service providers, further improvingaccess o f the poor.

115.    Improved governance is important to reducepoverty and access of public services by
thepoor. Improvedmanagement and incentive systems inthe state administration aim to reduce
the capture of policy processesby special interests. This i s achieved by gradually improving civil
servants' earnings and the development o f improved internal accountability mechanisms in the
administration. It thus creates the conditions for the policy process to become more transparent
andaccessible, which willbenefit those who have limitedaccessto decision-making processes.




27   World Bank. "Tajikistan: Poverty and Social Impact Analysis of Cotton Farmland Privatization."
ESSDandPREM, June 2005, WashingtonD.C.


                                                33

E. Implementation, Monitoring, and Evaluation

116.     Amount and tranching. The proposed operation i s the first o fthree programmatic single-
tranche operations. The proposed operation would be provided in IDA grants inthe amount of
US$10 million. Funds would be available upon effectiveness, expected inSeptember 2006. The
Swiss government and the Japan Bank o f International Cooperationhave expressed an interest in
co-financing the medium-termprogram.

117.     Executing agency. The State Advisor for Economic Policy will be responsible for
overall implementation o f the reform program, for reporting progress, and for coordinating
actions among the other agencies and ministries involved. The Office o f the prime Minister will
provide overall guidance and oversight. The PresidentialAdministration will be responsible for
implementing the public sector reforms. The line ministries involved (energy, education, health,
agriculture, and transportation) are accountable for implementingthe sectoral reforms specified in
the reform program. The State Property Committee will be responsible for implementing the
privatization program. The National Bank o f Tajikistan (NBT) will monitor the macro stability
measures. The Ministry of Economy and Trade, and the Ministry o f Finance will be responsible
for reforms o f licensing, regulation, and the privatization process. The Ministry o f Agriculture
will monitor the cotton sector reforms, while the Ministry of Energy and the Prime Minister's
Office will be responsible for the energy sector reforms. The Borrower will open an account at
the National Bank of Tajikistan against submission by the Borrower o f a simplified withdrawal
application.

118.     Monitoring and evaluation. Bankstaff will continuously monitor implementationo f the
reforms specified in the program matrix o f the proposed Grant and the subsequent Grants.
Monitoring will focus on the indicators specified in the program matrix. A status report on the
first reform program will be presented inthe documentationfor the second. Bank staff will focus
on the outcomes o f the reforms through its regular monitoring o f Tajikistan's PRSP. Country
capacity for monitoring will be strengthened through the ongoing Statistical Capacity Building
Project. For instance, a living standards measurement survey (LSMS) i s to be conducted in
2007-08 supported by the Bank-supported Statistical Capacity BuildingProject, which will help
inassessing the impact of many of the proposedreforms on the population as a whole and on
different socio-economic groups. A quality enhancement review for this project was carried out
inDecember 2005 and the revisedprogram document reflects the recommendationsmade. An
implementation completion report will be issued within six month following the closing date of
the medium-term program.

F. FiduciaryAspects

119.     Country Financial Accountability Assessment. The June 2004 CFAA concluded that
the risk to public funds was high in Tajikistan, because of: (a) poor systems o f public
accountability and weak mechanisms for public sector transparency; (b) weak internal control
systems and internal audit function; (c) weak institutional capacity to implement some of the
budget reforms beingundertaken; (d) fragmented budgets and poor cash management, (e) lack o f
transparency in state-owned enterprises; and (0 weak capacity with the legislative bodies to
provide effective oversight over the working o f the government. Tajikistan has made substantial
progress since then in various aspects o f the public financial management. For example, the
organic budget system has been thoroughly revised, the budget classification system has been
changed, the treasury system has been modernized by introducing automation, a treasury single
account has been established, quarterly budget execution reports are now routinely prepared, and
external audits have become more timely. The government is also strengthening the capacity of


                                                34

key accountability institutions in the country. For example, with a grant from the Bank's
Institutional Development Fund, the Supreme Audit Institution of Tajikistan has entered into a
twinningarrangement withthe U.K.'sNationalAudit Officeto strengthenthe skills o f staff o fthe
Supreme Audit Institution o f Tajikistan and to introduce modern auditing processes. Inaddition,
through another grant o f the Institutional Development Fund, Tajikistan has enacted a modem
public procurement law. These efforts have resulted inTajikistan achieving 8 o f the required 16
HIPC indicators of public financial management, putting Tajikistan in the top quintile o f HIPC
countries as noted in the recent February 2006 IMF Staff Report and IMF assessment o f public
expenditure management under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative. However, the adoption o f
good policies is not enough to improve performance. Capacity to implement the policies also
needs to be developed.       The government i s working with the Bank in preparing two new
projects-the   Public Sector Reform Project and the Public Financial Management Modernization
Project-aimed     at strengthening capacities to implement improved systems o f public financial
management systems. Fiduciary risk will needto be monitored closely on a continuous basis.

120.     IMF safeguards assessment. The IMF's most recent safeguardsassessment, conducted
in June 2003, noted several weaknesses at the NBT, including a qualified audit opinion by an
international firm on the financial statementsfor fiscal 2002 that included audit observations with
respect to guarantees issued and loans made to commercial banks, nonpublishing o f annual
financial statements, weak internal audit capacity at NBT, and infrequent and inaccurate periodic
financial statements. It recommended several measures to address the weaknesses, mainly inthe
areas of financial accounting and reporting and auditing. The latest available IMF Article IV
consultation report, completed in April 2005, concluded that the NBT was implementing the
recommendationsmade inthe safeguardsassessment. The external internal audit o f the NBTwas
completed for 2003 and 2004 and the one for 2005 i s underway. However, details on progress
made in implementing various recommendations, including results o f audits for the latest two
years, are not yet publicly available. Accordingly, the team recommends opening a dedicated
foreign currency deposit account and a dedicated local currency deposit account at the NBT, in
the name o f the Ministry o f Finance, to receive b d s under the proposed operation.          The
government and the Bank discussed the arrangements for utilization o f the proceeds of this
foreign currency and the Tajikistan delegation conveyed the intention o f the government to
directly utilize the foreign currency proceeds deposited into the foreign currency deposit account
for foreign currency debt servicing (already included in the fiscal 2006 annual budget), thereby
obviating the need to convert the foreign currency into local currency. The Ministry o f Finance
will submit quarterly reports, providing details of utilization of the proceeds of the grant, until
proceeds have been fully utilized. The final statement on the utilization o f the proceeds o f the
foreign currency and local currency deposit accounts will be subject to an audit under terms o f
reference acceptable to the Bank andby an audit firm acceptable to the Bank.

G. DisbursementandAuditing

 121.    Disbursement. The Borrower i s the Republic o f Tajikistan. The proceeds o f the Grant
will be disbursedupon effectiveness of the Development Financing Agreement. The Borrower
will open andmaintain a separate foreign currency deposit account in(US dollars) at the NBT, as
part of the general foreign currency reserves o f the government. The proceeds of the Grant will
be deposited by the Association into such dedicated foreign currency deposit account. The IDA
"negative list" restrictions, agreed during negotiations and specified in the Development
Financing Agreement, will apply to the use o f grant proceeds. If after depositing funds in the
deposit accounts, the proceeds of the grant are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the




                                                 35

Development Financing Agreement, the Bank will require the Borrower to either: (a) return that
amount to the account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refimdthe amount directly to the Bank.

122.    Reporting and auditing arrangements. Through the Ministry o f Finance, the Republic
of Tajikistan will (a) report on a quarterly basis to IDA the amount received into the deposit
accounts at the NBT, (b) provide confirmation of the amounts withdrawn and/or transferred from
the deposit accounts, includingbank account numbers, date andnames o fbeneficiaries, (c) ensure
that the proceeds of the Grant are not used for ineligible expenditures defined in the IDA
"negative list" as agreed during negotiations and specified in the Development Financing
Agreement.     The deposit accounts and the transactions from this account to the ultimate
beneficiaries' accounts will be independently auditedinaccordance with terms o f reference to be
agreed with IDA.

H. EnvironmentalAspects

123.    The conclusion of an environmentalscreening of theproposed reforms, undertaken as
per the requirementsof OP 8.40, is that the reforms are largely benignfrom an environmental
point of view. Details of the analysisfor each reform areafollow.


0       Maintaining macroeconomic stability.         Macroeconomic stability i s necessary for
        economic growth and poverty reduction, which may indirectly generate environmental
        benefits by encouraging the adoption o f modem technologies which use resources more
        efficiently thanthose they replace.

0       Reforming licensing and inspections. Reform o f licensing will facilitate business entry
        and growth and reduce costs for businesses. This will result inuncertain environmental
        impacts, depending on the sectors that attract new investment, and the availability an
        cost-effectiveness o f new technology. However, the extent to which the reforms attract
        businesses into the formal sector may be positive for the environment, since formal
        businesses are more likely to comply with environmental policies.            Reform of the
        inspection law will increase the accountability o f inspectors and reduce the opportunity
        for rent seeking. This in turn will increase the effectiveness o f the inspection process to
        detect violations inhealth, safety, environmental, tax, and other laws, which will have a
        positive impact onthe environment.

a       Improving transparency of theprivatization process and market competition. Increasing
        the transparency and accountability o f the privatization process will likely have a positive
        impact on the environment, because this transparency i s likely to include disclosure o f a
        firm's environmental liabilities for past contamination and current environmental
        performance. The government with the support of the PPIAF i s preparing restructuring
        plans for several large industrial plants. These plans will incorporate measures to address
        past and ongoing pollution with oversight from the State Committee on Environment
        Protection and Forestry. Amending the competition and natural monopolies laws to
        increase competition among enterprises will have uncertain impacts on the environment.
        The cross-country evidence suggests that over time, competition leads to more efficient
        resource use, and thus reduces environmental impact o f a unit o f output. However,
        competition could also lead to negative environmental impacts if it encourages firms to
        use cheaper, but environmentally-damaging technologies. The net effect inTajikistan is
        likely to benign.




                                                 36

0       Aviation sector reform. The proposed operation seeks to improve efficiency and enhance
        competition inaviation. Although increased competition i s expected to raise the number
        of flights between Tajikistan and other countries, this i s expected to lead to adoption o f
        more fuel-efficient, less noisy aircraft by the Tajik State Airline, with an overall benign
        impact on the environment. The operation does not support investment inairports, which
        i s being supported by other development partners with oversight o f the State Committee
        on Environment Protection andForestry.


0       Cotton sector reform.      The proposed operation aims to introduce a universal cotton
        grading system that will increase the confidence o f potential end users o f the quality o f
        Tajikistan cotton being purchased. This will maximize the sales price and stimulate
        demand from end users for premium cotton. This will have only indirect, if any, impacts
        on the environment. An increase in demand for premium cotton could stimulate new
        production, or it could encourage farmers to substitute higher-grade cotton for lower
        grade. An increase in cotton production will not necessarily have a negative impact on
        the environment, depending on the environmental impact o f the crop relative to
        alternative land use.      In any case, ongoing Bank projects, including the Rural
        Infrastructure Project, the Community Agriculture and Watershed Management Project,
        the Land Cadastre Project, and the Farghana Valley Development Project are closely
        monitoring the potential environmental impacts o f projects supporting agricultural and
        natural resources management. The proposed Bank-supported Cotton Sector Recovery
        And Poverty Reduction Project anda project supported by the Asian Development Bank
        will strengthen capacity o f the government to address environmental issues arising from
        reforms o f the cotton sector.

0       Energy sector reform. The proposed operation will support separation o f policymaking
         from commercial operations and restructuring o f tariffs to promote cost recovery, while
         ensuring that the poor have access to a minimal level o f service at affordablerates. These
         measures are expected to promote efficiency, which will have a positive impact on the
         environment. Without mitigating measures, reformingthe tariff structure may have had a
         negative impact on the poor, according to the poverty and social impact analysis, which
         may have increased pressure on forests for fuelwood. However, this will be mitigated
         through provision o f subsidies to low-income electricity consumers.          The proposed
         operation does not support any investment operation for constructing new dams.
         Environmental impacts o f future energy investments will be carriedout underthe projects
         that support them.

0        Reforming public sector management. The operation will support implementation o f
         reforms o f public sector management aimed at improvingthe efficiency and effectiveness
         of the public service andthe delivery o fhealth and education services. These reforms are
         not expected to have any impact on the environment.               Improvements in public
         administration that encompasses environmental agencies may improve the efficiency and
         accountability o f these agencies.

124.     As a newly independent country emerging from a civil war, neither awareness of
environmental issues nor institutional capacity to address them are well developed in
Tajikistan. This is now changing. Tajikistan's PRSP recognizes water pollution, soil
degradation, water pollution, deforestation, and biodiversity conservation as environmental
priorities and proposes a range o f measures to address them. Tajikistan i s an active party to
several United Nations conventions and has prepared a National Strategy for Combating



                                                 37

Desertification (2002), and a National Biodiversity Conservation Action Plan (2003).          The
country has also adopted environmental laws and regulations, including a requirement that
environmental impact assessments are conducted for all new construction. The borrower also
imposes fees and fines on all major polluters. The country established the State Committee on
Environment Protection and Forestry in January 2004, merging the Ministry for Environment
Protection and the Committee on Forestry. The new entity conducts its activity in accordance
with the law on environment protection and other legal documents, such as the water code, land
code, and others. It has over 600 employees throughout the country to monitor and enforce
compliance with the country's environmental laws andregulations.

125.     Gaps in capaciv is being strengthened through a number of Bank-supportedprojects.
The government is strengthening its the capacity to assess and mitigate environmental impacts o f
economic activities through training and hands-on experience. The Bank, through four ongoing
rural development projects, is strengthening the local line departments by supporting the
upgrading o f their national and local level analytical laboratories and training their staff with
internationally-recruited environmental and natural resource protection specialists. The Bank i s
also assisted the government in holding conferences and workshops on natural resource and
environmental management and in disseminating their proceedings to the public. Additional
measures to strengthen the government's institutional capacity for environmental management
will be addressed through the Bank's country program and programs o f other development
partners. A country environmental assessment that examines the institutional framework and
capacity o f the country to address its environmental challenges may be undertaken during the
next phaseso fthe program.

I; RisksandRiskMitigation

126.    Successful implementationof the medium-term reform program faces risks,for which
mitigation measures have been identified Speciflcrisks include:

e        Weak implementation capacity. Capacity in Tajikistan to implement a complex reform
        program is weak. Development partners are helping to strengthen capacity in several
        ways. A Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development Grant i s helping to build
        capacity through support for design and sequencing o f reforms, analytical work, and
        intergovernmental coordination. The Bank will help to strengthen capacity o f central
        government operations through the Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project.
        It will strengthen capacity of the sector ministries and government agencies involvedin
        the program through ongoing and planned projects. Other development partners are
        working with the Bank to ensure that capacity buildinginitiatives are well coordinated
        andmeet the needs o f the government.

         Weakpublicfinancial management systems. The public financial management system is
        characterized by poor internal controls, lack o f transparency, high level o f corruption,
        low capacity, poor cash management and budget execution, all o f which undermine
        efforts to enforce fiscal discipline.    During implementation, fiduciary risks will be
        mitigated by: (a) creating a dedicated foreign currency account into which Bank funds
        willbedisbursed; (b)regularreporting onthe use o f fbnds disbursed; and (c) requiring an
        independent audit on the use o f funds provided under the proposed operation.           In
        addition, the following actions will be required inorder to realize longer term progress in
        public financial management: (a) commitment by the authorities to implement key
        recommendations o f the CFAA, the Country Procurement Assessment Report and other
        IMFreports; (b) satisfactory implementation of the grants from the Bank's Institutional


                                                38

   Development Fund supporting public sector reform program o f the government; (c)
   satisfactory implementation o f the Public Sector Reform Project, which will soon be
   negotiated, and the proposed Public Financial Management Modernization Project,
   currently under preparation. Progress in strengthening the public financial management
   will be assessedthrough the IMFfiscal transparency Reportson Observance of Standards
   and Codes to be carried out infiscal 2006, and a fiduciary update to be conducted by the
   Bank infiscal 2008.


0  Complexpolitical economy coupled with thepresidential elections. Tajikistan has been
   independent from the former Soviet Union for slightly over ten years and is still
   recovering from a devastating civil war. Its institutions are very weak and vulnerable to
   capture by special interests.   Stakeholders who benefit from the current institutional
   arrangements are likely to resist reforms that will leave them worse off. Moreover, the
   resistance o f vested interests i s likely to increase in the run-up to the presidential
   elections scheduled for November 2006. The president and the ruling party, however,
   have are much stronger than the opposition, and the election is not expected to result in
   significant changes ingovernment or inpolicy that would threaten the momentum o f the
   public sector reform program.      The Bank will address risks posed by the upcoming
   election by improving and expanding its efforts at communications, emphasizing the
   costs o f continuing with the economic status quo, the long-term benefits o f reforms, and
   opportunities for accelerating growth through greater private sector involvement in
   infrastructure. Better dissemination o f the findings o f Bank-supported analytical work
   will be an important vehicle of this enhanced communications effort, but it will also
   involve proactive efforts, with assistance from the external affairs units in the country
   office andinheadquarters. The Bankwill regularly monitor progress and actively engage
   in dialogue to help government and with the opposition. It will continue to coordinate
   closely with other development partners to monitor political developments and provide a
   commonresponse to political developments.

0  External factors.    Tajikistan i s exceptionally vulnerable to shifts in the external
   environment, due to its small internal market, its landlockedposition, and its dependency
   on a small number o f commodity exports, limited number o f transport routes, and
   workers' remittances for income and for foreign exchange. Deteriorating terms o f trade
   would negatively affect rural incomes and Tajikistan's balance o f trade. Political or
   economic instability in neighboring countries also poses a significant risk to Tajikistan;
   as such instability could lead to closures o f borders or trade disruption Apart from
   pursuingsuitable economic policies to diversify its exports, as an active member of the
   Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation, Tajikistan i s addressing some o f these
   trade andtransportationissuesthroughregional cooperation efforts.




                                            39

                           Annex 1: Letters ofDevelopment Policy

                                                                  Unofficialtranslation

             THE PRESIDENTOFTHE PREPUBLICOFTAJIKISTAN

Dushanbe                                      NO.23.111-1                 28 March
2006

H.E. Mr.PaulWOLFOWITZ
President
TheWorldBank
1818HStreet, N.W.
Washington, DC20433

Excellency,

Please allow me to express my gratitude to you and inthe name o f you the World Bank
for the support being provided to the government o f the Republic o f Tajikistan in the
reforms.

The objective of this Letter of Development Policy (LDP) is to outline recent
developments inTajikistan's economic and social situation and the related prospects over
the next three years. This LDPis based onNationalDevelopment Strategy (NDS) and the
recently approved Public Administration Reform Strategy (Public Administration Reform
Strategy) that the Government intends to implement. N D S represents follow-up actions
under the on-going Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) with longer term time
horizon. The recently approved PAR covers medium and longer term actions to reform
public administration inorder to improvethe qualityo fpublic service delivery.

As you know, the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Tajikistan
covering FY 2006-2009 includes a program of lendingaimed at supportingthe different
areas of Tajik Government's program aimed at achieving its goals o f promoting growth,
reform public sector and improve the qualityo fpublic services delivery.

With respect to the economic program of the government, we would like to highlight
some o f the results achieved inrecent years. According to experts' evaluation, Tajikistan
hasbeen one of the fast-growing economies inECA with average five year growthrate of
10percent (2000-04). This highgrowth rate reflects the progress achieved during initial
stage o f structural adjustment reforms, balanced macroeconomic policy, as well as
economic rebound after the civil war, favorable external factors, and strong inflows of
migrantsworkers' remittances.

In 2004, real GDP growth reached the highest level in Central Asia (10.6 percent).
Economic growth achieved duringrecent years effected a significant decrease o fpoverty
level inthe country. Consequently, the poverty rate (using a PPP o f USD2.15 per capita
per day) significantly fell by 18 percent (fiom 82 percent in 1999to 64 percent in2003).


                                             40

The tightening o f Tajikistan's monetary policy stance since late 2003 brought to
significant reductiono f inflation: from 16.4 percent in2003 to 7.9 percent in2004. At the
same time it is necessaryto note that measureson increasing tariffs for electricity inorder
to reach cost-recovery, as well as increaseon world oil prices, due to increase in cost; as
a result inflation had increased to 8.5 percent during last 12 month. National currency
depreciated byabout 5 percent through end-July 2005, but hasbeen stable since then.

Despite those achievements, we fully understand that Tajikistan may face major
challenges ahead. Our country remains vulnerable to external shocks and i s still the
poorest country in the CIS with an estimated per capita GDP of $310 in 2005. This
vulnerability is due to the fact that about three-forth o f total export earnings remain
concentrated on aluminum, cotton and electricity and the remittances from abroad are the
key trade deficit financing source and hence current account balance stabilization.
Besides, the Tajik economy depends on oil imports whose prices tend to further increase
in recent years. These factors pose significant risk to maintain sustainability of high
economic growthrate over the long-term. To mitigate such risks, the government intends
to deepen structural reforms in all sectors to unlash their full potential to sustain high
economic growth rate and accelerate poverty reduction following the adoption of the
Public Administration Reform Strategy and the gradual improvement in capacity in the
government to implementkeyreforms.

We are ready to implement important policy measures that will be realized in areas that
pertainto the Programmatic Development Policy Grant (PDPG).

I.SUSTAININGECONOMICGROWTH

Government attaches high importance to the growth agenda. In recent years growth
performance has been strong, while in2005 it slowed down mostly due to both external
(world market prices for cotton, aluminum, and oil) and internal (inparticular due to low
cotton productivity, onerous regulatory environment for private sector development)
factors. We understand that key reforms in this area should focus on: (i)        improving
investment climate; (ii)   improving productivity o f enterprises and agribusiness; (iii)
increasing the efficiency inenergy sector; and (iv) improvingtrade andtransport.

Currently, Government discusses the new triennial programwith the IMF andwill follow
all agreementsthat will be achieved inthe negotiations and Government's
macroeconomic policy will be consistent with them.

Investment Climate

Improved investment climate i s considered to be a major target in private sector
development policy of the government. Further actions inthis area include streamlining
and minimization o f government intervention into business operations and reducing
barriers to entry into the market. We acknowledge that those are major constraints for
private sector development. The government has established a working group to prepare
a new Law on Inspections and amend existing Tax Code as well as amending licensing



                                            41

law. Those amendments and new law are beingdiscussed inthe Majlisi Oli (Parliament)
for final adoption.

We are also pleased for fruithl collaboration under the World BankTechnical Assistance
on a communication strategy to publicize future asset sales as well as past privatized
objects to build support for the privatization program and complete a compliance review
of a set o f randomly selected privatized objects for 2004. The State Committee on
Administration o f the State Property has beenpublishing information on asset sales for
previous periods and future assets. The compliance review is expectedto be produced by
April 2006. The government o f Tajikistan will pursue policy actions to enforce
transparency andaccountability rules inprivatizationprocess.

Our M e r steps toward improving investmentclimate includeas follows:

Licensing and Inspections:

    0  adoption of regulatory documents o f inspections, as well as amendments into
       current regulations o f licensing selectedtypes o f activity. These regulations shall
       be maximum clear and exclude any possibility for double-interpretation, as well
       as maximally facilitate the processes. Besides, Government shall amend relevant
       clauses inthe legislationo f Administrative violations that stipulate administrative
       measures against those public officers, which fail to observe new requirements for
       licensing and inspections. In future we will thoroughly monitor the legislative
       execution practice o f newly adopted legislationinthe area o f activities inspection
       andlicensing for theirproper andefficient execution.

    Privatesector development

    0   The government has recently developed a pledge law for movable property and
       with donor support is setting up a registry for such pledged assets inthe Ministry
       o f Justice. This will improve the investment climate by facilitating secured
       lendingwhere collateral is movable. The government has also recently draftedan
       investment law to provide clarity to and facilitate investors, inparticular foreign
       investors.
    0  Inorder to achieve sustainable development, the government intends to develop
       and implement private sector development strategy. However, further donor
       assistance and input i s needed before this strategy can be finalized and
       implementation can begin.
    0  Also, the government, with donor support i s working towards developing a policy
       on property rights including for intellectual property.

Privatization.

    0  Government shall continue the current course for transparency and accountability
       of the process. The specific steps inthis area are as follows: (i)
                                                                        amendments to
       current regulations promotingremedial actions to deficiencies explored during



                                            42

         randomcompliance reviewofprivatized objects; (ii)     Conduction o fnew random
         compliance review o fprivatizedobjects for 2005 and adoption o fnecessary
         actions; (iii)strengthening advertisementcampaign andbroad communication o f
         the public onprevious and fbture auctions; and(iv) adoption andimplementation
         of individual restructuring plansof LargeStateEnterprises. We also plana
         program on privatization o funfinishedlegacy which implementationwill allow to
         their exploitation andprovide efficient utilizationby the private sector with
         creation o f employment and sustaininggrowth.

EnterpriseProductivity andAgribusiness

Improvedcompetition rules andincreasingproductivityinagribusiness are expected to
create a healthy competitive environment inlocalmarket and ensure sustainability o f
growth inmedium and longer term. The government haspreparednew version o f Law
"On Competition andlimitationofmonopolistic activity at commodity markets", which
i s to be submitted to the MajlisiNamoyandagonMajlisi Oli o fthe Republic of Tajikistan
for approval inApril 2006. Further, the government intends to develop clear regulatory
mechanism for execution o fnew Law. We also intendto amend Law o fthe Republic of
Tajikistan "On NaturalMonopolies" andprovide its implementation mechanism.

Onagribusiness, the government has adoptedFarmDebtResolutionStrategy which
considers necessaryactions to increaseproductivity and ensure fair distributiono f export
sales revenue incotton subsector. The Ministryo f Economy andTrade, Ministryo f
Agriculture andAgency for Antimonopoly Policy andEntrepreneurial Support have
redrafted cottonpricingregulationtowards increased flexibility andincreased
competition. Government has also to adopt a decree on moving to internationalcotton
standards; ajoint venture will be establishedwith aninternationallyrecognized cotton
grading company with compulsory grading andweight certification innext two years.
We will plant40 hectares for HighYieldingVarieties (HYVs) ofcottonunder World
BankLandRegistration andCadastreSystem(LRCS) project funds. Overall, those
actions are to contribute to increasing productivity incotton subsectorthrough increasing
competition inthe sale as well as fair income distribution inthe subsector.

EnergySectorReform

 Energy is considered one of the important sources o f future growth for the country. In
 January 2006 the government has signed Memorandum o f Understanding with
 international financial institutions on fbture development strategy as well as new tariff
 policy and social protection mechanism. The government will continue actions to
 restructure the sector, including separation o fpolicy makingand commercial operations,
  and develop a new tariffpolicy and social protectionmechanism by end of 2006. Inthis
 regard the Presidential Decree on separation o f Open Joint Stock Holding Company
 "Barqi Tojik" from Ministry of Energyhas been signed in March 2006. On the latter,
  gradual energy tariffs increase will be exercised during 2007-2010 until they reach cost
 recovery level of 2.1 cent per kWh. Respectively, there will be measures adopted for
  social protection o fvulnerable populationfrom electricity tariffincreases.



                                              43

Trade and Transportation

Government had taken initial steps to reform aviation sector. The Department o f Civil
Aviation was set up in2001. We understandthat follow up actions are neededto separate
policy making and technical regulation responsibilities. It i s expected that by the end o f
2006 policy makingfunctions will be separatedfrom the Department o f Civil Aviation to
another state agency. Also, State UnitaryAviation Enterprise "Tojikiston" (Tajik State
Airline) restructuring plan is under preparation considering legal separation of the
operations o fthe airport, airline andair traffic controlbyend2008.

Government of Tajikistan has decided that Tajik State Airline will collaborate with
international financial institutions to mobilize resources to develop a competitiveness
strategy under gradual liberalization o f air policy. Tajikistanwill continue gradual move
to open air policy. Since May 2005, a China Southern Airlines started operating on
Dushanbe-Urumchi-Beijing route; Turkish Airlines has been operating on Dushanbe-
Istanbulroute since end-January2006.

To improve the access to the country, the government decided M e r simplifllng the
visa regime. Letter of invitation-free visa regime will be established with OECD
countries; we will adopt new rules for issuingvisas for citizens o f OECD countries upon
arrival inthe country. To facilitate domestic trade the government has issued a decree to
reduce internalcheckpoints o ftraffic police.

The government has also significantly liberalized the internal visa regime to reduce
transaction costs for business and to increase flexibility inn labor markets. We are also
activelypursuing aprogramof reforms to enable WTO accessionand significant progress
has been made in this effort. In particular, the government has reformed its custom
administration procedures and revised the customs code, to make the country more
compliant with the Kyoto protocol.


11.IMPROVING PUBLICSECTORPERFORMANCEAND THE QUALITY OF
SERVICEDELIVERY

Tajikistanhasbeenmovingto a market economy andneedsto establish adequatepublic
institutions to improve the quality of public services that i s one o fthe three strategic
priorities the government has set out inthe context o fthe National Development Strategy.
Inthis regard, highpriorityis attachedto: (i) implementationofthe Public'
                                                the
Administration Reform Strategy (Public Administration Reform Strategy); (ii)        resource
allocation by strengtheningthe linkbetweenmid-term and long-term Government
programs andbudget planning; (iii)   improving the efficiency inbudgetresource
allocation inthe education sector; and (iv) improvingprimary health care (primaryhealth
care) service by increasing transparency andincreasing wages. We see the importance of
immediate actions inCivil Service Pay reform, strengthening horizontal civil service
management and amending the "Law on Civil Service".



                                              44

Public Administration ReformStrategy (Public AdministrationReform Strategy)

Following President's addressto the parliament inApril 2005, the comprehensive public
administration strategy was developed, which was adopted on 15 March 2006. We are
grateful to the WB and USAIDKJrban Institute for technical and advisory support in
developing the PAR Strategy.

Government has taken some initial actions on selected key aspects o f public
administrationandcivil service reform:

 (i)PresidentialdecreewasissuedinNovember2005envisagingtheintroductionof
     A
      new civil servants wage system in five pilot ministries and agencies. According to
      new system, all benefits and supplements, except qualification rank increment and
      years o f service, were integrated into a single base pay with moderate
      decompression o f salaries andde-coupling the increment for qualificationrank from
      the minimumwage hasbeenrevised; gradual separation o f auxiliary staff from civil
      servants andregulations on fundingtheir salaries i s being addressed;
 (ii) ServantRegisterhasbeencreatedandreadyforcomputerization;
      Civil
(iii)The   Civil Service Department has been strengthened, and we begin the
      implementationo fPlanfor reinforcingthe Civil Service Department;
(iv) Amendments to Civil Service Law have been prepared. They will provide the legal
      basis for wage system reform, the introduction o f merit principles in civil service
      recruitment, the establishment o f legd base for incentive funds, based on
      transparent criteria, and the formal separation o f career civil servants and political
      appointees;
 (v) The Restructuring plans of five pilot agencies (Ministry for State Revenues and
      Duties, Ministry o f Finances, Ministry o f Economy and Trade, Ministry o f Labor
      and Social Protection o f Population, and Civil Service Department) have been
      prepared and submitted to the government that intends to approve these plans by
      endofApril 2006.

All the above actions will be completed before Programmatic Development Policy Grant
negotiation.

Strategic policies andresource allocationframework

Under forthcoming DFID and European Union TA programs, the government will
develop a framework to ensure linkagebetween strategic policies and resource allocation
framework.    By May 2006, the government of Tajikistan will adopt MTBF
implementation action plan. The joint program o f the World Bank, DFID and European
Union will support us to implement MTBF during next two years. The government inits
turndoesallthenecessaryfor fullyimplementMTBF.

Resource allocation inthe education sector




                                            45

The government has completed the process o f designing an Education Sector Strategy,
which is to be followed by a specific strategy on Education Financing. Per Capita
Fundingwas introduced on a pilot basis in five rayons in 2005. It is expected that all
issuesrelated to the design and scale up nationwide will be developedin2006.

Government's policy actions inthis area include the development o f a strategy to address
structural impediments to the roll out o f per capita fimding based on expert review.
Further action stipulate more flexibility inresource allocation inpilot rayons by moving
support staff to the `goods and services' component o f the budget and allocation all non
wage resources as a package to the schools. These reforms will be accompanied with
measures on strengthening financial management and accountability at school
administrationlevel, as well as the review andreform o f the stavka system to ensure that
teacher loads are closer to full time equivalent, the design o f a new remuneration and
promotion system that rewards performance and is more aligned with responsibility and
qualification levels, a complete mapping of schools and a plan for rationalization o f
resource allocationandutilization ineducation.

Health Care

In2004 the government has adopted the HealthFinancingstrategy, which sets out the
objective to allocate Government resources to strategic objectives of the sector. The key
objectives o f the Strategy are: (i)establishment o f an institutional structure o f a single-
payer for health care, (ii) pooling of sources o f public funds for free health care, (iii)
development and implementation of new provider payment mechanisms; (iv) regulation
of informal payments in the health system and introduction o f formal co-payments; (iv)
increasing health personnel salaries; (v) reorganization o f the system o f health services
delivery; (vi) improving equity o f resource allocation. Inorder to meet the goals o f the
strategy, as well as to guarantee access by the vulnerable population to basic health
services and legalized Paid Services for Secondary care, the government initiated in
summer 2005 the Basic Benefit Package (basic benefits package). However, due to
design flaws, the systemwas suspendedinOctober 2005.

Government intends to renew paidmedical services step by step as follows:

    (i)     in2006 categorize medical facilities and positions (jobs), separate financing
            flows of primary health care and hospital level and based on this to develop
            and introduce new wage systemfor primaryhealthcarepersonnel;
    (ii)    In2007 basedon experience ofone regionto implement paid services andin
            parallel approve the action o frevised basic benefits package;
    (iii)   In2008 to introduce paid services and reintroduce basic benefits package at
            national level.

Besides, the government currently plans to implement asymmetrical wage bill increase
for primary health care as follows: 60:40 in2006, 80:20 in2007, and maximum level of
asymmetrical allocation o f wage bill increase for primary health care effective from
2008.



                                             46

Further steps of Government inthis sphere will be accompaniedwith implementationof
financial management and accountability measures on level of medical facilities, both
primary and secondary, improving criteria for resource allocation (per capita hnding in
health) as well as complete rationalization o fmedical facilities.

Conclusion

As the above indicates, the government ofTajikistanis strongly committedto undertaking
necessary reforms actions to promote economic growth and improve service delivery. In
this context, the support of the World Bank would be important to support government's
reform agenda through approval o fthe Programmatic Development Policy Grant i s a very
important element.

Pleaseaccept Your Excellencythe assurances o fmyhighest consideration.



                                                                    Emomali Rahmonov




                                            47

          Y
         fi cd


     G
     e,

     rcl
     0




    ae,
     s

    'a
     3
     %a



    4a




%J
8
d


  8
  .3
  n

Ei0
5
Y




a
0




Y
B
cd

'aE
--
Y"8
aE



   ad
    8en

    Yg
   a G

                     0
                      VI




hi  c;   ' h i   P
       I

e     e    e




      c      ci  r;




r;

e    e

cj

     l    a
I    I

              x




 I-     ri




a1E
  -.    ri

a    a    a    a

.

             Annex 3: .ink between the Progran                                      lonor Programs
ReformArea             AAA                                                          Other Donors
Licensingand           InvestmentClimate              PPIAFprogram
                                                                                    ADB -(Tax code
                                                                                    Swiss
Inspections            Assessment                     IFC PEP
                       IFCsmall and mediumsize        IFC small and mediumsize      modernization)
                       enterprises survey             enterprisesProject            USAID/Pragma-(Licensing
                                                      MIGA ForeignInvestment        andRegistration)
                                                      Advisory Service
Privatization Program  InvestmentClimate              PPIAFprogram                   Swiss
                       Assessment
                       TradeDiagnosticsStudy


Aviation Sector Reform Trade DiagnosticStudy          EBRDLoan                      EBRD
                       AviationStudy
Energy Sector Reform   Trade DiagnosticStudy          EnergyLoss ReductionProject   ADB-(PowerRehabilitation)
                       EnergyUtilitySector review     PamirPrivatepowerProject
                       Sector

                       CentralAsia Regional
                       ElectricityExportPotential
                       Study
CottonSector Reform    Trade Diagnosis Study;         FarmPrivatizationSupport      ADB
                       AviationSector Study           Cotton SectorModernization    USAID  - Pragma
                       AgriculturalDevelopment        Project                        Swiss
                       Strategy                       RuralInfrastructureProject ,   DFID
                       PovertyAssessment Update       CommunityAgricultureand        UNCTAD-( Standards)
                       Tajikistan: CottonSector       WatershedManagement            UNFAO-( LandReform)
                       Review                         Project, LandCadastreproject
                                                      FarghanaValley Development
                                                      Project
Public Administration  PublicExpenditureand           Public SectorReformProject     EuropeanUnion
Reform                 InstitutionalReview            (FY06)                         ADB
                       Public Sectorand Civil Service IDF Grant for Strengthening    DFID
                       Wage note                      Civil Service Capacity         TACIS-(Public Procurement)
                                                      Public FinancialManagement
                                                      ReformProject(FY07)
                                                      IDFPublicSector
                                                      Accountability
                                                      InstitutionBuildingand
                                                      Technical AssistanieI1
Civil Service and Wage CountryEconomic                Public Sector ReformProject    EuropeanUnion
reform                 Memorandum: CivilandPublic     (FY06)                        ADB
                       Sector Wage PolicyNote
SocialSector Reform    HealthSectorPolicyNote         Communityand Basic Health      ADB
                       PovertyAssessmentUpdate        Project                        Sweden
                                                      EducationModernization         Swiss
                                                      Project                        EuropeanUnion
                                                      CentralAsia HIV/AIDS Project DFID
                                                      FastTrack InitiativeTrust Fund USAID
                                                      SocialProtectionreformGrant
                                                      SecondPovertyAlleviation
                                                      Proiect




                                                       58

                  Annex 4: Relations with the International Monetary Fund


The Bank's Country Partnership Strategy, endorsed by the Bank's Board o f Executive Directors
on July 26, 2005, focuses on the following three priorities, which are in line with the country's
PRSP:


0            To improvebusiness opportunitiesinrural andurbanareas

0            To enhanceandpreserve the quality ofthe humancapital

0            To improve energy service delivery andincreaseelectricity exports.

In addition, in each of the above areas, the Bank Group and Government agreed to work to
improve government capacity and efficiency, and reduce corruptionby givingspecial emphasis to
measuresthat increase transparency o f resource use, reduce discretionary controls, and encourage
the participation of users inthe provision o f services.

Macroeconomic management aims at establishing a stable economic environment through
appropriate fiscal, monetary, exchange rate, and sustainable debt policies. In support o f these
policies, the authorities are tightening payment discipline, especially in the energy sector,
hardening budget constraints for state-owned enterprises, and pursuing enterprise and banking
privatization and restructuring.    Recent improvements in macroeconomic management have
supported the current economic recovery. However, to maintain strong growth the authorities
will need to accelerate structural reform to support private sector development and investment,
andencourage foreign investment.

The IMF has taken the lead in assisting Tajikistan in enhancing macroeconomic stability.
The Fund has encouraged the authorities to continue with fiscal consolidation, maintain a
restrictive monetarypolicy, andrestructure external debt to enhancedebt sustainability.

The World Bank has taken the lead inthe policy dialogue on structural issues, includingpoverty
reduction measures, agriculture sector reforms, private sector development, institution building,
and governance. A range of instruments is used to conduct the dialogue. Policy based lending
and technical assistance is supporting reforms in a number o f sectors. The Policy Based Grant
currently under preparation will engage the government in the areas o f public administration
reform, public expenditure management, social service delivery andprivate sector development.

This broad-based approach is combined with sector projects in health, education, municipal
infrastructure, power, agriculture, environment, andpoverty alleviation. Over the last two years,
the Country Procurement Assessment Review, the Country Financial Accountability Assessment,
a Trade Diagnostic Study, an Investment Climate Assessment, a Note on Public Sector Wages and
the Public Expenditure and Institutional Review have been finalized in collaboration with the
government of Tajikistan. An Aviation Sector Note and a Note on Remittances will be issued
soon.




                                                  59

The table below illustratesdivision of labor between two institutionsinspecific areas:


                Specialized Advice from       from Bank
                                              Specialized Advice
Area            Fund                                                   Key Instruments



Economic        Monetary policy, exchange     Economic growth,         IMF:PRGFperformance criteria
Framework/      rate, fiscal, andtrade        economic statistics      andbenchmarks onmonetary and
                policies, economic statistics                          fiscal targets.
Management
                                                                       Bank: PBC and STATCAP under
                                                                       preparation.

Budget          Medium-termbudget             Budgetmanagement,        IMF:PRGFperformance criteria
                framework, tax and customs    debt management and      onoverall fiscalbalance,
                policy and administration,    statistics, Public       including PIP. Structural
                andtreasury and debt          Expenditure Review,      benchmark ontreasury
                management                    Country Procurement      development
                                              Assessment
                                                                       Bank: PBC, RapidResponse TA,
                                                                       andTreasury underpreparation.

Public Sector                                 Civil service reform,    IMF;PRGF
Reform                                        public sector wage
                                              policy, administrative   Bank PBC and RapidResponse
                                              restructuring andhealth  TA under preparation.
                                              andeducationfinancing

 SociaWoverty                                 Poverty analysis;        IMF: PRGF
                                              reforms ineducation,
                                              health, social           Bank PBC, Community Health,
                                              protection; support to   Poverty Alleviation 3, Health and
                                              community driven         EducationSector-Wide Program
                                              development              under preparation. Education
                                                                       Modernization, Poverty
                                                                       Alleviation 2 under
                                                                       implementation.

 Private and    Banksupervision;              Cotton export pricing,   IMF: PRGFconditions on farm
 Financial      development o fthe            developing and           privatization, bank closures, and
 Sector         interbank market and          implementingthe          opening the bankingsector to
 Development    increasing competition in     privatizationstrategy,   foreign competition.
                the bankingsector             farmprivatization, bank
                                              closure and              Bank: PBC under preparation
                                              restructuring

 Other Sectors                                Reforms inagriculture,   Bank: PBC, CottonDevelopment,
                                              energy sector, water and Municipal Infrastructure under
                                              sanitation, environment, preparation. Energy Loss
                                              infrastructure.          Reduction, Dushanbe Water
                                                                        Supply, Land Cadastre, Ferghana
                                                                       Valley projects under
                                                                       implementation.




                                               60

                                                                                           EXTERNAL
                                                                                           r?E!ATlol\iS
                                                                                           DEPARTMENT




PressRelease No. 06124                                                     IfitematioimIMonetary Fwd
FORIMMEDIATERELEASE                                                        Washington, D8CN 1USA
                                                                                              E043
Febiuaiy7. 2006


            IMFExecutiveBoardCompletesSisthradFfurlReviewZ'nder the Republicof
             Tajikistan's PRGFAwangement andApproves i;S$14.1 U U o nDisbursement

The Exeaithe Boardofthe IiiteiwtioxialMoiietay FNII~(IMF)1 ~ coityleted the sixthreview
                                                                                s
of the RepublicofTajikistan's perfonrutwewider its ecouomic refoimprograiiisupportedby a
tiuee-year PovertyReductionaridOrowthFacility(PRGF)arraiigeiueiit. Couipletjoiiof the
review enables the Republic of Tajikistanto chaw an aiuoiuit eqiuvalwt to SDR 9.8 million
(about LlSS14.1 u ~ l i o uwdw tlie airaiqeiueiit.
                                )

The L%E'sExecxitive Boardappm7edthe three-year anangenetit on Decauber 11.2002
(see Pi.essRelease So. 02/54) for an mount equivalent to SDR 65 million(about
WSf93.7 million). Tlie di&wseiiient under the sixth review will result hitlie anaugeiiient being
fray drnvm

Followingthe Executive Boarddiscussion onofTajikistan. 0x1 Fetmmy6.1005,
MY.AptinCarstem,DeputyMaiiaa,PiupDirector andActingChair. stated:

"The Tajik aintlioxities are to be coimencted for Tajikistan's robust ecoiiomic peifommce in
recent years, it1the context of strong iiiq)leinentatioiiof the PRGF-supportedpropram Despite
the negative impact of higher energy pricesanda weak cottonharvest in2005. the authotities'
iiwxoecouodcpolicies, coupled with progresson stnicmalrefonus. have contributed to hicah
ecotioiuic growth, relativelylow inflation, axida rechictiou iiipoverty.'Il~ey1mvealso lielpedto
xiuiutaina sustaimbledebt positiou,
"Looking ahead, the antlioiities remaincoinii~ittedto keeping fiscalpolicycousisteiuwith the
program'siuediiuu-tenn objectives. The foeus shouldbeoustimigtliahig tax a&niuish.atioii aud
effectively enforcingthe newt-ns andcustoms codesto preseive and expaw! the revam base.
&iy ry?veiiueovetyerfonimce iwmltinp fro111higher-tfiaii-expected expoitprices shouldbe
traxispreiitly w e d to augment social expeudittlre. with the ultimate goal ofmeeting the
i l l i l l e i u i mDeu?lopmeiit Goals,.Tlie authorities' iilteiitioiito fimlier shvugtheii the mampemetit
oftiiotietaiy policyby takiupsteps tobrwdeiithe rangeofmoiietmyinstnluieiits aiiddeveloping
a stmtegy for recapitalidugfhe central bank i s ~~elcoiiie. mhtenauceof 8 xiMunged floatbig
                                                                    The
exchange rateixgiiiie.with iiiteweiitioninthe foreign exchange market limitedto nnootUg
slioi%-termexchange rate volatility. is appopiMe.



   WoMngtan, c1.C.20431            Telephone202-623-7100            Fax2026236772      L www.irnf,org




                                                     61

`$Itis iinportanitila! thea\ithoiities plrshalkeadwitli key outstandhipstrzrctwalreforms.Iu
particular. they should take steps to acceleratepublic sector refonm inthe areas of education.
heafth care. audci.Vilsenrice.Atother keypriwity is the ueedto developa mrket-based debt
resohitiw stratew for the cottonsector. witliout recoaaseto budgetarysupport. Similarly,it will
be iinpoi$aiitfor the aiitliorities to devefopn coiisistenfreforuistrategyfor the electricitysector.
which will be crucialinenlmiciiip growthprospects hithe niedimi tmu.The authoritiesshould
be caiuuendedfor tlie recat actionfo iwuove iriipditneiits to the =by offoreignbalks into
Tajikistan. u~hichis expectedto enhancecoinpetitionand the qiality of bailkingservices."
Mr.Caitseiis said.
Tlic PROFis the IhWscoiicess.SSioila1facility for lot\.-iucomecoiuitrim. PRGF-suppared
prog~mnsare basedoncotiiitiy-o~wedpovertyredwtioilstrategies adoptedinR participatory
-1.processiuvolviilpcivil society auddeveloptiiattparhers andarticulated iuthe Pwertv
                                       Thisis htmdedto nisiirethat PRGF-suppoitedproprainsare
comistentwith n cauyitheiisive frauiework for iuacroecorioiidc. sh-ttctcual,midsocial policies to
foster growth aad reducepo~erty.       PRGFloanscairy an aiwualinterestrateof0 3 y-ercmtmdare
repayableover 10yeanwitha 595-yeargrace periodoiiprincipalpapients.




                                                  62

-                                           Annex 5: Tajikistan at a Glance
                                 TaJikistmat a glance                                                                     3123106

                                                                  Europe&
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 Central     Low-
                                                  Taiikistan         Asia income        Development diamond'
2005
Population,mid-year /&?/                                      6.8              2,310
GNIpercapita /Afkcmr(rlnd M$/                                 310     2 473~ 1
                                                                        . 5     450                  Lifeenpectancy
GNI fAflastn&d l W m : t                                       2.1    1,220    1,030
Average annualgrowth. 1999-05                                                                              T
Population&/                                                  2.0         0.1    1.9
Laborforce Rt                                                 3.3        0.2     2.3
Most recent QStimrtQ (IdtQSt #Qdravailable. 1999-051
Povertyp'dpqwk+b?hkwn&wdpmtv@&/                                64
Urbanpopulationp'dmdpcpwbkqt                                   26         63     30
Lifeenpectancyat birth&a:/                                     67         69     50
Infantmortality/&rlt%W&iW&t                                    86         31     82
Childmalnutrition@'d&iWmuosk#                                  36                44
Accessto animprouedwater source 4Vd-t                          56         91     75
Illiteracy&d,xpuWw*&!)                                           1         3     39
Grossprimaryenrollment ,Wd--wpq&wkw              ,t            a0       103      92
   Male                                                                 104      99
   Female                                                               102      85

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                              1983          1993     2002      2005
ODP flWhWk:j                                                  0.52        2.1    2.3     Eoonomic ratios'

GrossdomesticinuestmentlGDP                                   39.2      18.4    18.4
Enportsof goodsandserviceslGDP                                61.9     58.4     53.0                     Trade
GrossdumesticsauingsfGDP                                      10.8        1.2   -6.0
Grossnationalsavingsf0DP                                      41.1      16.4    13.6
CurrentaccountbalanocfGOP                                    -39.9      -4.0    -3.4
InterestpaymentslGDP                                           1.4        1.2    1.2
TotaldebtfGDP                                                100.9      41.8    39.4
Totaldebtservicelenports                                       4.7      28.1     7.2
Presentvalue of debtfGDP                                     149.6     38.6     36.0
Presentualueof debtlewports                                  164.7     73.5     75.1

                                1983-93 1993-03             2004     2005 2003-05
IabJwswwuIJ?row4t
GDP                                     ....     2.1          10.2      10.6     6.7
GDPper capita                                   0.4          a12.7       0.4     4.6
Enportsof goodsandservices                      3.7            8.4       2.9     2.7


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                              1983          1393     2004      2005
p'dq/                                                                                    Growthof investment and GDP (x)

Agriculture                                                   23.3      21.8    22.0  I  40
Industry                                                      46.5     35.4      31.1    20
  Manufacturing                                                                           b
                                                   ..
                                                   ......     32.4     24.3     20.1
Services                                                      30.2     43.0     45.0   -20
                                                                                        -4*
Privateconsumption                                            12.7     77.4     74.3   -60
Generalgovwnmentconsumptian                                   47.3       8.4     11.7
Imports01 goodsandservices                         ......     90.3     70.0     67.8  I             -001           -GDP


                                            1983-93 1993-03          2004      2005      Growthof elports and imports [%)
?~wmu*'gou/l?l
Agriculture                                     -7.2           2.3       15.1    9.6   20 7
Industry                                        -1.7          -0.1       0.4    10.2
  Manufacturing                                                1.2       11.0    11.5
Serviees                                       -11.8          4.9        5.0     7.2
Privateconsumption                                            19.5      -7.3      0.1
Generalgouernmentconsumption                                 -13.9      -3.0    -0.8
Qrossdomesticinuestment                                      -12.5      -5.0     9.9
Importsof goodsandservices                         ........   2.3       -5.3    -6.5  I         -Exports          -Imports


Note2005 dataarepreliminaryestimates.
'The diamondsshow four keyindicatorsinthe country[in bold]comparedwith itsincome-groupaverage.If dataare missing,the diamondwill
   beincomplete.




                                                                    63

                                     ~                ~




PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                      1983  1993       2001   2005
-sf&        priers
P-1
Consumerprices                             7,343.7        7.1    7.0
ImplicitGOPdeflator                        1,127.9      16.9     9.6
h r m a r fh a c @
                                                                     I
@CfMsk d h s        twWx-w*-:1
Currentrevenue                               33.3       17.8    20.1          9*   99      00        D I       01
Currentbudgetbalance                         -15.2       5.6     5.5
Overallsurpluddeficit                        -20.9      a*      -2.9         -GOP      deflator    -CPI


TRADE
                                      1983  1993       2001   2005
flmmikw3.q                                                             Eiportand import levels(US$ mill.]

Totalcwports[fob]                             456      1.088   1.107  1.500.I
Aluminum                                      230       563     560
Cotton                                         117       162     1+4
 Manufactures                                   41        07      90
Totalimports[cif]                             639      1,238   1.+26
 Food                                         157        115     130
 Fuelandenergy                                 125      200     207
 Capitalgonds                                  34        132     150
Ewportpriceindew {LW=W1                        +7        101     103
Importpriceinden  {m-m                          61       127     144
Termsof trade {RW=M?i                          77         79      71

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                      1983  1993       2001   2005
pw-:i                                                                 Currentaccount balanceto GDP [XI
Ewportsof goodsandseruices                    470       1,211  1246
Importsof goodsandservices                    616       1,451  1,683
Resourcebalance                               -215      -241   .437
Netincome                                      -16       -76     .?4
Netcurrenttransfers                            25       236     432
Currentaccountbalance                        -207        -a3     .79
Financingitems[net]                           209         31      14
Changesinnetreserves                            -2       -54     4 1
Mm*
Reservesincludinggold flkF$mWW                  2        119    230
Conuersionrate &7%krr?uccW                 1.37E-2       3.0     3.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOVS
                                     1983   1993       2001   2005                                       ~~




pw-i                                                                   Compositionof 2001debt [US$ mill.]
Totaldebt outstandinganddisbursed                       867      812
  IBRD                                        5220         0       0
  IDA                                           0       236     300
Totaldebt service                              22        341      69
  IBRD                                         0.0       0.0     0.0
  IDA                                           0          3       4
Cornpasitionof netresourceflows
  OFficialgrants                                11        68      60
  Officialcreditors                            57       -184      64
  Privatecreditors                             68          6     -46
  Foreigndirect inuestmcnt                      9       272       36
  Portfolio equity                              0          0       0                            D:255
WorldBankprogram
  Commitments                                   0          5      26   A IBRO
                                                                         -                                 E Bilateral
  Disbursementr                                           56      37   B. IDA   0 .Other mulrilrlrrrl      F Privata
  Principalrepayments                           00         0       0   C-IMF                               G Short-term
                                                                                                            ---
  Netflows                                      a         56      37
  lnteres?payments                              0          1       2
  Nettransfrrs                                  0         53      35




                                                             64

                                                         Annex 6: Selected MacroeconomicIndicators




kosr domoattc product'                                     loa.0  100.0  1m.o  m a     io0 o   1000   IW.0   100.0    1004  1m.o    1110.0 1m.o      100.0
 A@mltun                                                    15.1  25.4   25.1   138     ni     14.1    193    193     1 9 1   191    I 9 1  19.1      191
 Induriay                                                   15.0  175    35.6   365     355    33.5    316    27.1    27.1   27.1    n.1    27.1      17.1
 semces                                                     41.4  399    30.9   30.7    314    31.6    383    39.2    40.8   4.6     441    46.1      47.8
'otalConrlumptim                                            95.7  so6    99.4   981     936    90.7    85.7   86.0    a 5 1  83.3    81.0   78.9      766
torr domesticfixodinvosttnont                               13.4   166     7.4    90     6 3     8.0   166    I66     166     16.6   16.6   16.6      166
i p t (GNFQ~  ~                                             48.9  66.1   86.7   68.1    654    63.3    58.4   53.9    567    56.0    540    52.4      50.7
meom0                                                       580   615    886    785     760    73.4    mo     72.8    769    76.4    741    73.2      72.1
hoar domosticsavings                                         6.3   159     7.5   -0.7    -1 1   -0.1    1.I    -6.0    -7.4   -7.6   -7.4    4.0       -85
t o s s natinndsavings'                                     2x1    199    -3.5    7.4   135    18.1    16.4   13.6     143    16.6   19.1   I1.o      23.1

d m o r m h n (tern
koas domertic product
Uff tnillinnat Nnontpncel)                                m7.a   10478   95x3  1033.4  11970  1555.6 1033.4  1311.4  lQ56   1838.2  3M68   3314.0
iDPp r capitr(usr)                                        110.1   1711   1 x 4  163.7  1818    136.7  309.1  338.0    376.4  398.9  4ll6   447.7     4741

l o d d g o w t h r a t o r ( % , cdcuktedfim1997prices)
 hoar domesticproductdmarkotpncoo                            5 3    3.7    8.3  102       91    10.1   106      6.7     8 0    6.0     60     6.0      60
 hoar DomesticIncome                                         0.7   183     5.0    46     34      4.0    5.9     I.7     66     3.3     69     6.8      7 1

Loal mnualpercapitdgrowthrdos~.calculabdfioml997pricns)
 Qors d m k c&&ct                         atmarkotpricos     3.1    1.6    6.1    80      69     8.0    84      4.6     59     39      39     3.9       39
 Totalconrumption                                            1.o    1.1    1.I    10      I 1    1.2    1 2     1.1     in     10      Ia     1         10
 Private consumpiion                                         1.7    1.1    1.3    1.0     I 1    1.l 11         1.1     10     1.O     10     1 .a.a    1.o

3      h    O mfPapmnk                (vs$dbIU)
b d r@Wb                                                   645.7 7179    849.9 7342    7994    985.0 1210.7  1245.0  14891  l5Bo.2  16566  1735.0    1816.7
      Marchandm FOB                                        586.1  6656   788.1 6716    7304    9000  10878   1106.7  13358  1423.9  14773  1541.1    1607.0
 Impmtsp N F b                                             765.8  733 5  868.4 8469    929 2  114.1   14514  1682.5  10196  11688   rn6.8  24l5.5    2581.4
      Mnchandis#FOB                                        n4.9  891.6   811.1 7770    8243   lOrn.1 lW 0    1416.4  1708.1 18186   1913.1 10349     11673
Rcrourco bdmco                                            -120.1  -156   48.5  -112 1  -188   -157.7  -240 7 436.5   .m,4   -579.0  -6iu.1 490.4     -764.7
Notc m n ttranibrs                                          56.6   351    385   1105    1438   217.5  7357    QlA     491.4  516.1   5470   W I l O  6773
Currentaccountbalanco                                      -96.6   -99   -59.4  -523    -419   49.9    -819   -79.4  4093   -139.1  -1516  -164.1    -171.a
Nltprirateforeign%octinves~ont                              24.8   21.0   135     95    3661    31.6  2720     54.6    650    90.0   958     84.5     loz5
Long-bnnloans(not)                                          18.2   383    39.6  iU1      14I    31.5  -194.0   44.1    65.4   76 4   819    1M.7      114.6
   mcial                                                    I8 1   41.0   21.1  36 0     110    19.4  4% 1     41.6    62.4   n8     n6     101.5     log3
                                                                   -3.7   18.4  -158      11     1.1     11     2.5     3.0    3.6     43     5.1       6 1
macapital(nt.
   Private                                                   0.1
                                id.11011Bd        m    )    89.1  -56.6   25.3  31.1     4 8    4.0     58.9   21.6    12.7   313    335     315      -159
Changoinnsnms~                                             -35 6    7 1  -8.1    4 5     4 5   -39.1   -540   -409    -336   -58 6   -286   28.6      .30.0

Kmranduraihrrr
braurcobalance(9%OfODp)                                     -9.1   -1.4   -1.9  -10.4   -10 6  -10.1   -11 6  -18.9   -101   -a04    -101   -ma       -11.4
l~alarru.llgrdrator(YR97pricol)
Morchandiae srportr(F0Q                                     4 5    10.0    6.1    44     11 5    4.1    -13     1.5     0 0     I 8    I8      1.8      19
   P h U y                                                  -09    109     6.5    45     113     4.9    -1.o    1.7     0.1    2.0     10      1.9      10
   Manufacbner                                               3.9    03     1.1    30      13    -7.0    4 5    -1.3    -13    -2.1    -03    4.6       4.6
Morehmdiasimpnrta(CIF)                                      140     0.0    03    140     -7 I   -8.1    -5 0    0.1     00    4.6      I5      1.o      1.3


WMI,,-(~                        ~ . r ~ ~ ~ ~ t n u k s t ~ A ~ r
Cuaentnvonuer n n d h d a                                   12.0   135    13.8   149     166    17.3    17.9   90.1    196    19.9    100    aO.o      20.5
 C w o n t rxpendituror                                     133    13I    11.6   130     136    12.5    11I    145     169    17.9    178    17.9      15A
 W e n t accountMphs(+) m duffsit(-)                        -1.3    03     1.1     19     30     4.8     58     53      2.7     2.0    11      1.6      49
 capitalorponditwe (including oxtamdly                       4.1    4.4    6.8    5.1     5 4    65      8 1    7.8     7 1     7.0    70      7.0      7 8
inMcodPIP)
 Forria5ancing                                               1.7    15     6.6    19      9 6    1.8     4.0     1.6    33      3.6    35      3.4       39
 OvndhblicSoctmBalmce@eluding                               -3.4   -3.1   4.6    43      34     -1.8    -2.4    -1.9    -45    -5.0    4.8    4.4       -29
iaundlyfinancodPIP)
VGUsbq wie.krs
 MlKfDP                                                      6.6    59     7.1    7.7     a i    7.5     83      90     9.4     9.8   10.4   10.9      11.6
 Growth ofMI (%)                                            395    17.2   591    571     393    198     4 0    I81     iU5    168     17.1   17.4      17.8
 Privata roctmcredit growth/
 totalcrodit prth(%)

' l . l c O i n l l c O . ( Y R W . l ~ ,
 MurchmdiroerportpriCed01                                   79.0   815    91.0   743     n 4    85.7   105.0  106.9   1330   116.1   120.1  125.4     131.4
 Morchondiaekipml~cohdrx                                    78.9   753    87.9   739     844   111.8   145.3  1643    I801   192.9   101.6  113 5     us5
 Morchandiaotams oftrade index                             1 W l  1081   im.5   1006     858    76.7    71I 65 1       61.7   ma      59.6   58.7      583
 Rsalexchangorat0(LWLCb                                    112.4  109.4   97.9   976     980    91.1    808    78.3    740    71.4    70.1   89.1      68.2

 RoalintmatrVsa
 Cnnrurnorpaceindm (% thango)                             43.2   27.5   32.9   366      111    16.4     7.1     5.9     55     3.0     50     1.0       5.0
 ODP doflator(% change)                                     87.8   265    21.7   I 6 1   220    19.1    17.0     9.6     80     5.0    50      5.0       50



L     ODP atfactmenst
3.    *ctNFS*donotor "goodaandnonfactorsmicee.'
:. Indudornoutunrequibdtr6wf.t.Iexcludingofesid capitd@anta.
I,IncludoournoflMFrerowcoa
I. Consoliddedc&al                                      '
:"KU'                                    gowmmont.
                  donoton'local cunoncyunitn."Aninnears inUstlLCUdsnotsr rppteciatinn


                                                                                      65

.i

i  :a    :a  i .i   .-
                  .I
      .I       .I .I

.A  .-.A    .A
            :s



           Annex 8: Joint IMF-WorldBankDebt Sustainability Analysis (Summary)

Tajikistan's risk of debt distress is moderate. Under the baseline scenario, all the external debt
burden indicators are below theirpolicy-dependant thresholds, but some of the indicatorsworsen
over time. Several indicators breach their thresholds under various stress tests. Given the high
concessionalityof the externalpublic andpublicly guaranteed debt, debt servicepayments remain
low in terms of revenues and exports, at 14.3 percent and 5.8 percent in 2006, respectively.
Implementing the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative in January 2006, which pertains to Fund
debt as ofend-2004, wouldfurther reduce risk of debt distress and decrease netpresent value of
debt-to-revenuesratiofrom 128.8to 113.7percent.

 1.      DataandMethodology

This DSA was conducted jointly by Fund and World Bank staff, using the debt
sustainability framework for low income countries?* It has benefited from Fund and Bank
 staff consultations with the Ministry of Finance during missions to Dushanbe in September and
November 2005, and included reconciliation o fthe debt data.

Reflecting limited data availability, the DSA focuses on external public and publicly
guaranteed debt. Tajikistan has some "disputed" government guaranteed debt from a period
prior to 1998, when guarantees were issued in ad hoc manne~.'~ This type of debt was not
included in the D S A given that terms, conditions, and government repayment obligations were
not clear at the time of this analysis.        The National Bank of Tajikistan has recently started
compiling inventory of external private sector debt not guaranteed by the government?'              Also,
reliable information on domestic public debt is not available, but obtaining it should be a future
priority inorder to conduct a full debt sustainability analysis. Including information on domestic
and "disputed" debt could substantially increase Tajikistan's risk of debt distress.

2.       Tajikistan'sExternalDebt Situationat End-2004

Tajikistan's past record points to the authorities' overall strong commitment to meeting
their external public and publicly guaranteed debt obligations?1Since a large share of loans
were providing on a concessional basis, debt service obligations have been manageable.
Tajikistan has focused on bilateral negotiations with its main creditors, taking advantage of its
strong ties withthem?2




38 The Low-Income Countries debt sustainability analysis uses (a) the current year exports as denominators
or estimating debt-to-exports ratio; (b) the WE0 exchange rate projections for estimating debt stocks and
debt service; and(c) a 5 percent discount rate.
39 In 1999, the issuance of guarantees was centralized at the Ministryof Finance. The guarantees issued
between 1992 and 1998 are estimated to amount to about US48 million.
40 One o fthe major issues inthis area is cotton farmdebt.
41 There were several incidences o f misreporting on accumulation o f external arrears, but the amounts
involvedwere small and stemmed from the authorities' inexperience with external debt management.
42 The 2005 status report on external debt of Tajikistan, preparedbythe MOF, provides further information.


                                                      71

Tajikistan's external position has shown a marked improvement from 108 percent of
nominal debt-to-GDP ratio at end-2000 to 42 percent at end-2004. This was due to both
declines in the level o f debt and rapidreal GDP growth. The lower level o f indebtedness is also
the result of improved debt management (such as restrictions on government public and publicly
guaranteed non-concessional borrowing) and debt rescheduling, write offs and debt-asset swaps
after successful negotiations withbilateral creditors.

A major breakthroughinTajikistan'sdebt consolidationwas the debt-assetswap operation
of USD242 millionwith RussiainOctober 2004. At end-2003, the debt to Russia amounted to
USD300 million, carried an interest o f 4 percent a year, and constitutedalmost 30 percent o f total
external debt.    In 2004, a debt write-off of USD13 million was obtained from Pakistan.
Following these transactions, the external PPG debt decreased from 66 percent o f GDP at end-
2003 to 42 percent at end-2004. At the same time, the share o f multilateral concessional debt
increased from 30 percent o f external debt in 2000 to almost 70 percent at end-2004. By end
2004, the debt owedto IDAconstitutedabout 50 percent o fthe total debt to multilateral creditors.

3.       BaselineScenario

The baseline scenario, developed on a cautious set of assumptions about economic policies
and outcomes (Box l),     showsthat Tajikistanis at amoderateriskof debt distress. The 2004
World Bank's Country Policy and Institutional Assessment ranks Tajikistan's policies and
institutions as those corresponding to a "weak performer." The debt-burden thresholds for
countries inthis category are (i)  net present value o f debt-to-exports o f goods and services o f 100
percent, (ii) net present value o f debt-to-GDP o f 30 percent, and net present value o f debt-to-
fiscal revenue o f 200 percent. The relevant debt service thresholds are (i)    15 percent o f exports
of goods and services and (ii)  25 percent o frevenues.

All of Tajikistan's external debt burden indicators remain below the policy-dependant
thresholdsduringthe projectionperiodunder the baselinescenario. The netpresent value of
debt-to-exports o f goods and services ratio amounts to 52 percent in 2005, well below the
threshold o f 100 percent. Following a gradual increase until2015, due to an assumed accelerated
disbursement o f public investment project finances, and no new bilateral debt relief agreement,
this ratio isprojected to decline to 47 percent by 2025. Debt service payments continue to be very
manageable, reflecting a rapidrepayment o f the remaining debt to Russia as well as the fact that
all Tajikistan's external public and publicly guaranteed debt has been contracted on concessional
terms. However, the net present value o f debt-to-GDP ratio converges close to its threshold over
the years, underscoring the importanceo f implementing the relevant structuralreforms.




                                                  72

                               Box 1. Macroeconomic Assumptions

    Real GDP grows at about 6 percentuntil2010, andat 5 percentbetween2011and 2025.
    This figure is slightly above its ten-year historical average of4.2 percent, but well below its
    five-year (post-Russian crisis) average of9.7 percent. Growth is driven by exports and
    expandingnontraditional sectors(services, textile, non-cotton agriculture) as well as
    continued inflows o fremittances.

    Exports of goods andservices are projectedto grow at 6 percent until2010, when exports
    ofaluminum and cotton, the main export commodities, are low due to declining prices in
    2005 and2006. The authorities have identifiedsectorsother than cotton and aluminum as
    key for increasingeconomic diversification, andthe forthcoming investmentinthe energy
    sector andongoing structuralreforms supportthis strategy. As the diversification o fexports
    progresses, the export growth increasesto 9 percentbetween2011and2025.

    The current account deficit (including official transfers) interms o f GDP is below its ten-
    year historical averageo f 5.2 percentby 1.1percent ofGDP between2005 and 2010,
    mainly due to a rapid increaseo fremittancesfrom previously low levels. The current
    account deficit is projectedto gradually decreasefirther to 2.5 percentof GDP, while the
    reserve coverage of imports is projectedto buildup gradually to slightly over 3 months o f
    imports by 2025.

    The fiscal stance continuesto be appropriately prudent. Dueto improved administration,
    revenueswould increasefrom 18.1 percent of GDP in2005 to 19.1 in2010, and further to
    almost 21percentby 2025. Expendituresare projectedto increaseat the same rate, leaving
    the fiscal deficit unchanged.
    Official external loan financing (on concessionalterms) is projectedto increasefrom
    USDlO5million in2006to USD435millionthroughoutthe projectionperiod(and amountto
    4 percentofGDP until2010 and4.5 percentthereafter).


 External debt indicators relativeto government revenues also stay well below the thresholds
  (Table 2 and Figure 2). The net present value of debt-to-revenue ratio would remainjust below
I


  140percentthroughout the projection period, while the associateddebt service ratio would exhibit
  a declining trend (from 14.8 percent in2005 to 12.3 percent in2025).

  4.      Alternative Scenarios and Bound Tests

  The historicalscenario is based on averages from 1999 to 2004, and thus reflects a period of
  macroeconomic consolidation, some progress with structural reforms, and debt red~ction.4~
  Under this scenario, not only all debt burden ratios remain well below the threshold indicators,
  they also follow a downward trendthroughout the projection period. While the conditions ofthe
  economy as well as its external environment differ have changed, this scenario illustrates the
  importanceof preservingmacroeconomicstability, progresswith structural reforms and continued


  43  The 1995-98 periodhas beenexcludedfivm historicalaveragescenariodueto disruptionsassociatedwith civil
 war andRussianCrisis. The averagevalues for the 1!299-2004 periodare calcula for current account deficit, real
  GDPgrowth, GDPdeflatorinUS%,exportgrowth, nettransfersandforeigndirectinvestmenttoGDPratios.


                                                    73

prudent debt management (negotiations on bilateral and multilateral debt reliefas well as keeping
restrictionson non-concessional borrowing).

A relaxationof the authorities'prudentapproachto contractingexternaldebtwould leadto
a substantialdeteriorationof Tajikistan'sexternaldebt indicators. Ifnew borrowingwere to
be contracted on less than concessional terms during the projection period, Tajikistan's net
present value debt-to-GDP ratio would rise substantially. Specifically, increasing the average
interest rate on new disbursement by 2 percentage points would bring the net present value o f
debt-to-exports ratio to the threshold level of 30 percent in 2011 and to 46 percent by the end o f
the projection period.

Boundtests show that adversemacroeconomicshockswould also have a profoundnegative
impact on Tajikistan's external position. In the event of a combined shock (to real GDP
growth, exports growth, FDI inflows), Tajikistan's net present value of debt-to-GDP ratio would
rise to 48 percent in 2007, keeping it above the policy-dependent threshold o f 30 percent
throughout the entire projection period. The same shock would also significantly worsen the
public and publicly guaranteed net present value o f debt-to-revenues ratio, which wouldjump up
to 260 percent in2007 and stayed above the threshold o f 200 percent until2022. IfFDIwere to
grow less by one standard deviation in 2006-07, Tajikistan's net present value of debt-to-exports
ratio would approach very closely the 100 percent threshold between2008 and2012!4

5.       Effects ofMultilateralDebtRelief Initiative

The Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative debt relief would lower Tajikistan's probability of
debt distress in the short and medium term. In 2006, the relief under the initiative would
lower Tajikistan's net present value of debt-to-revenues ratio from 128.8 percent to 113.7 percent,
while the debt-to-exports ratio would decrease from 52.3 to 46.2 percent. The debt service-to-
exports ratio would decrease from 5.8 percent to 4.5 percent. Regarding the dynamics o f net
present value'o f debt-to-GDP ratios, the "MDRI path'' would start at lower value in 2006, but
converge to the "non-MDRI path" by 2014. Same pattern holds for paths o f net present value o f
debt-to-exports anddebt-to-revenues ratios.

VI. Conclusions

The main conclusion of the debt sustainability analysis is that Tajikistan's risk of debt
distressis moderate.

The results from the alternative scenariosunderscorethe need for the authorities to maintainsound
macroeconomic policies, acceleratestructural reformsto achieve higher export growth and
enhanceoutput growth. While these measures would reduce Tajikistan's vulnerability to
exogenous shocks, staying on sustainable debt pathwould also require that Tajikistan continues
with prudent debt management policiesand uses externalresourcesproductively.




44     SinceTajikistanisasmallopeneconomywithahighshareofexports-to-GDP,the debt-@revenueiridicatorisa
bettermeasureofdebtvulnerabilities.


                                                 74

                                                    68E             KAZAKHSTAN                                         70E                                                      72E                                                       TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AUTONOMOUS OBLAST CENTERS*

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OBLAST CENTERS
                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                          Tashkent
                                TAJIKISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                   ASHT                          Andijon                                                                         RIVERS
                                                                                                                           Fergana
                                                                                       To
                                                                                       To                                   Valley                      UZBEKISTAN                                                                               MAIN ROADS
                                                                                     Tashkent           MATCHO     Taboshar               Darya
                                                                                                               KHUJAND               Syr                      To
                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                            Andijon                                                                              RAILROADS

                                                                                                     Khodjand      Kayrakkum                 KONIBODOM
                                                                       ZAFAROBOD                                    Reservoir           Konibodom                                                                                                RURAL DISTRICTS (RAIONS)
                                                                                                     NAU
                                                                                                         Chkolovsk                                                                                                                               AUTONOMOUS OBLAST BOUNDARIES*
                                                                                                                                      ISFARA
                                                      To
                                                      To
              40N                                  Bukhoro        URA-TYUBE
                                                                                                               PROLETAR                                                                                                 40N                     OBLAST BOUNDARIES
                                                                                               Ura-                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                               Tyube                                                           Kyzyl-Kiya                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                       KYRGYZ REP.
                  To
                  To                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Area with no oblast-level administrative divisions,
                Bukhoro                                                             SHAHRISTON                                                                                                                                             where rayons are under direct republic jurisdiction.
                                                                                              GONCHI                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                To                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                             Sary-Tash                              Osh

                                Pendzhikent                                          S O G D             Zeravshan
                                                                   Ayni                                                                                                                                                                74E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0      20        40     60       80 Kilometers
                                  PENJIKENT                                    R E G I O Nn g eMATCHO
                                                                                AINI                                                                                                                        Pik Lenin
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (7134 m )
                                                                       Trans             Alai-Ra                                    RASHT             Jirgatal'
                                                                                                                                                                         JIRGITAL

                                                                                                                                 Rasht                                       Pik Imeni                              Lake                            0            20           40            60 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                        Ismail Samani                            Karakul'
                                                                                                  KOFARNIHON                                   TOJIKOBOD
                                                                                                                     DARBAND                                                (7495 m )
                                                                                    VARZOB
                                                               SHAHRINAV                                Komsomolabad                                        TAVILDARA
                          Region under                                                                                                                                                                G H O R N O -
                                           TURSUNZADE                                                          ROGUN

                         direct Republic                 DUSHANBE                                              Obigarm                                                                           B A D A K H S H A N
                         subordination                                                              FAIZOBOD                                  KALAYKUMB                         VANCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Rangkul'
                                                                                                                  HOVALING                                                     Pik Revolution
                                                                     GISSAR                        Nurek                              Kalaikhum                                                             A . O .
                                                                                                                                                                       Vanj        (6,974 m)                                                                                      CHINA
               UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                                 P                             Rukhch
                                                                                        YAVAN K H A T L O N                                                                     a           Bartang                          Murgab Murgab

                                                                                                R E G I O N                           Panj                                            m
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lake
              38N                                                                                                                                                                          i RUSHANSarezskoye                                                                                          38N
                                                                     RUDAKI          BOKHTAR            SOVIET            MUMINOBOD                                                               r                             MURGAB
                                       KURGAN-                                                                  KULJAB
                                                                                         DANGARA                                                                                                      s
                                         TYUBE                             GOZIMALIK                     Kulyab        SHUROBOD

                                                                                        Kurgan-                                                                                                                                                                   Aksu
                     To
                     To                                                                                     VOSE                                                                          SHUGNAN                          Alichur
                   Qarshi                                                               Tyube                   MOSKOW
                                                         KABODIENJILIKUL               VAKHSH                  Moskovskiy
                                                    Garavuti                                     FARKHOR
                                                                             KOLKHOZABAD                                                                                                                                     Pamir
                                                                                                                                                                           Khorog
                                            SHAHRTUZ                                                                                                                                              ROSHTKALA
                                                                                             PYANJ                                                                                    Pik Karl Marx
                                       Shahrtuz         Vakhsh                                 Pyanj
                                                                                                                                                                        Andarob         (6723 m )

                                                                                    KUMSANGIR
                                                                                                                                                                                          Vrang
                                                                                                                                                                            ISHKASHIM
                                                                                          To
                                                                                          To                                                                                            Panj
                                                                                        Baghlan
NOVEMBER                                                                                                                                                                  Ishkashim                                                                                                                          IBRD
                                                                                                 AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank          33493
        2004                                                                                                                                                                              PAKISTAN                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                         68E                                                                         70E                                                           72E                                                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

