Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
lo/A    ;2 feq            am  0w
Report No. 6854-JO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
November 11, 1987
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00    =    Jordanian Dinar (JD) 0.334
JD 1.00     =    US$2.99
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCD      -  Community College Directorate
DCT      -  Division of Certification & Training
DET      -  Directorate of Educational Technology
EEC      -  European Economic Community
GCTB     -  Government Central Tender Board
GDPSB    -  General Directorate of Projects and School Buildings
GTD      -  Government Tendering Directorate
HEC      -  Higher Education Council
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
JIPA     -  Jordan Institute of Public Administration
m/m      -  man-month
MIS      -  Management Information System
MOE      -  Ministry of Education
MOHE     -  Ministry of Higher Education
PID      -  Projects Implementation Directorate
SEPROC   -  Science Equipment Production Center
SOEs     -  Statement of Expenditures
TA       -  Technical Assistance
TRCs     -  Training Resource Centers
UNRL'A    -  United Nations Relief & Works Administration
VTC      -  Vocational Training Corporation
GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR 0MCIL US ONLY
HASHEMITE KDIGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pae No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY . ..................                    (iv)-(viii)
I.   INTRODUCTION **...      ................****...  ................    1
II.  BACKGROUND ...........................................               1
A.   The Economy and Manpower Issues ............I............ 
Economy and the Labor Force ...........................         1
Government's Economic Development Strategy      ............    2
Implications of Government's Strategy for Manpower
Development .....*.***...*   ........................         2
B.   The Education and Training Sector .....................         3
Overview ..............****...........*a..............          3
Access  and Equity *J..*....*.**.*.....***..**-*o*..***         4
Education Cost and Financing ...................4......         4
Quality of Education ..*a............*........ ..... a.....     5
Quality and Cost Efficiency of Physical Facilities ....         7
Relevance of Vocational Training to Economy's
Requirements ............  ......... .*   .. *... * .*.*      8
Planning and Management, and Measurement and Evaluation
of Education Quality ........****.a*****.q***.......          8
Experience with Bank Lending ...........................       10
Bank Lending Strategy .........*.*************.**.....         10
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Jordan in March-April 1987. The mission members were Messrs. J. Socknat
(mission leader); G. Graves (general educator, consultant); E. Dib (architect,
consultant); S. Syrimis (technical educator, consultant); I. Werdelin
(education measurement and evaluation specialist, consultant). Mesdames D.
Scruggs and G. Ghattas assisted with the preparation of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the petformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authofization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
II.  THE PkOJECT ................  1*..1.#*.****.***...........            11
A.   Project Objectives and Description         ....................  11
Project Objectives ................................ ....         11
Project Composition .......4..                                   11
Improving the Quality of Education         ....................  12
Improving the Quality of Physical Facilities and
Reducing Cost Per Student Place .....................          15
Improving the Relevance of Vocational Training to
Labor Market Needs ................                            16
Strengthening Planning, Management and The System for
Measurement and E-aluation of Education Quality at
the Ministries of Education and Higher Education ....         18
B.   Project Cost and Financing Plan ................   ......        21
Project Cost ..     ............. ..................             21
Project Financing ..............          *                      23
Recurrent Cost and Implications .........   .............       24
C.   Project Implementation  .........        .....  *   ....         24
Status of Preparation, Implementation and Technical
Assistance ..* .. ...... # * ..............................................  24
Procurement ...* ........................*....**....             26
Disbursements ......   *....................... ..*              29
Auditing and Reporting .. .........*...... ..   ......... .      30
IV.  BENEFITS ATD RISKS ......... o...... .. ..... ******* ......  *.      30
Benefits ....     tS.*.***.****..............................         30
Risks ........ *      .................. ........***. . . .........   31
Environmental Impact of the Project  ........................         31
V.   AGREEMENTS REACRED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........... ..........         31



- ili -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.1   Basic Data
1.2   Comparative Education Indicators
2.1   Diagram of Education and Training System, 1987
2.2   Enrollment Data
3.1   Summary of Action Programs and Implementation Schedule
3.2   Technical Assistance Implementation Schedule
3.3   School Construction Program:  School Capacities, Types, and Site
Locations
3.4  Costs and Areas Per Student Place
3.5   Ministry of Education Implementation Schedule for Furniture,
Equipment, Technical Assistance, and Civil Works
3.6   Chart 1 - Organization Chart of the Ministry of Education
Chart 2 - Organization Chart of the General Directorate of Projects
and School Buildings
i.7  Organization Chart of the Ministry of Higher Education
3.8   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
3.9   Schedule of Disbursements
MAP: IBRD 20618



ic-
IK'
'Itl
T
4qt4l
WN



(iv)
HASHEMIT.E KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Beneficiaries:          Ministries of Education & Higher Education
Loan Amourt:            US$40 million equivalent
Terms:                  17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Prolect Description:   The proposed Project would assist the Government of
Jordan to further develop and implement its medium-term
education and training strategy. The Project would
focus on improving the quality, relevance and cost
efficiency of education, on institution building, and
on strengthening the linkage between
education/vocational training and skilled manpower
demand. Objectives of the Project are to:
1. Improve the quality of basic education by:
(a) introducing a cost-effective in-service
training program which would upgrade the skills
of about 30,600 basic education teachers and
staff; and for the secondary school teachers,
introducing pedagogical courses geared to their
skill deficiencies; and
(b) increasing the availability of instructional
materials and ensuring their effective use by
the teachers.
2. Improve the quality of physical facilities and
reduce cost per student place by:
(a) replacing pedagogically unsuitable rental
premises with 58 compulsory-level schools
(65,400 student places) and by applying the
recently revised, cost-effective accommodation
norms and design standards to all
compulsory-level schools to be constructed; and



- v -
(b) helping to maintain the value of existing
investments through str7agthening of the school
maintenance system.
3. Improve the responsiveness of vocational training
to labor market needs by:
(a) introducing pilot vocational programs for girls
in areae of rapid employment growth;
(b) initiating office technology and computer
maintenance training as part of vocational
training programs; and
(c) adapting community college curricula and
programs to meet labor market needs more
effectively.
4. Strengthening education planning, management, and
the system for measurement and evaluation of
education quality:
(a) improving access to and use of Management
Information Systems at the Ministry of
Education to enhance the efficiency of
decision-making process;
(b) establishing an integrated system for measuring
student and teacher performance and evaluating
the effects of different combinations of
educational inputs on quality and cost;
(c) building up the information base through a
series of studies to help develop policies and
programs to address resource constraints and
improve the linkage between education and labor
market demand; and
(d) strengthening project implementation capacity.



- vi -
Estimated Project Costs:&'
Local   ForejLn  Total
--- (USS million)
Project Component
1. Improving Q-tality of Education
Teacher Upgrading                                   6.1      1.1       7.2
Instructional Materials                            0.6       4.5       5.1
Subtotal                                       6.7       5.5    -12.3
2. Improving Quality & Lowering Unit Cost of
School Facilities
Construction of 58 Schools                         37.6     32.3      69.8
Maintenance                                         0.1      0.1       0.1
Subtotal                                      37.6      32.3     69.9
3. Improving Training/Labor Market Linkage
Expanding Training Programs for Girls               0.4      G.6       1.0
Establishing Office Technology/Computer Trg         0.1      0.6       0.7
Adapting Community College Programs                 4.1      1.6       5.6
Subtotal                                       4.6       2.8       7.4
4. Planning, Management, Quality Measurement
and Evaluation
MOE Management Information System                   0.0      0.3       0.3
Strengthening Exam and Testing System               0.1      0.3       0.4
Strengthening Projects Department                   0.0      0.3       0.4
Subtotal                                       0.2       0.9       1.1
Total Base Cost                                        49.1     41.6      90.7
Physical Contingencies                              3.9      3.7       7.6
Price Contingencies                                 8.2      1.8      10.0
Total Project Cost                                     61.2     47.1    108.3
FINANCING PLAN
Government                                             61.2      4.6      65.8
Bank                                                    0.0     40.0      40.0
EEC                                                     0.0      2.5       2.5
Total
a/ Estimates include taxes and duties of US$4.1 million financed by the
Government.
NOTE:   Subtotals and total figures do not add up due to Costab rounding.



- vii -
Estimated Disbursements (in US$ Million):
Bank Fiscal Year
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Annual                       2.0      3.0     8.5    10.5      8.5     5.5      2.0
Cumulative                   2.0     5.0    13.5    24.0    32.5    38.0    40.0
Economic Rate
of Return:                    Not applicable
Benefits and
Risks:                        Through the introduction of a practical,
on-the-job training program geared to specific
needs of teachers, 30,600 basic education
teachers, headmasters and supervisors are
expected to be upgraded during the seven-year
project period. This scheme would replace the
current practice of maintaining teachers at full
pay and awarding them full fellowships to pursue
higher-degree programs for upgrading purposes.
The net savings through the new program is
estimated at US$71.8 million. A similar scheme
geared to secondary school teachers would
introduce pedagogical skill training courses and,
in comparison with the existing fellowship
program, accelerate the speed by which teachers
can be upgraded and reduce the training cost per
teacher. The school construction program would
provide 65,400 student places. Application of
the recently revised accommodation norms and
design standards would reduce the gross area per
student by about 37% and cost per student place
by about 20%. It is estimated that by using
these cost-efficient norms and standards, the
Government could, on the 60 largest schools to be
constructed under the Third Five-Year Plan alone,
realize savings on the order of JD 10 million
(US$29.9 million equivalent). In addition,
replacement of the small, overcrowded rooms in
rental facilities with proper classrooms would
help improve quality of learning. Through the
planning- and policy-oriented studies to improve
the linkage between higher education and the
changing needs of the domestic and the external
labor markets, employment opportunities of
graduates are expected to be enhanced.
Introduction of vocational training programs for
girls in areas offering high employment potential
would



- viii -
facilitate their integration into the labor
market. Further support to institution building
would improve longer-term planning and resource
management at the level of the Ministries of
Education and Higher Education. Strengthening of
the educational testing, measurement and
evaluation system would help guide decisions on
how to use increasingly scarce resources for
maximum impact on education quality.
The proposed Project does not pose major risks on
th substance of project components. With respect
to implementation, the Government has had an
excellent track record in carrying out
Bank-financed projects in the sector in the
past. However, to guard against any potential
risk related to realization of project objectives
in a timely manner, a series of detailed action
programs and schedules have been agreed upon with
the Government. These programs call for periodic
joint reviews on specified dates as well as
implementation of specific follow-up actions
resulting from these reviews to be carried out by
the Government.



c~~~-q$
e4



THE HASHEMITE KINGDCOM OF JORDAN
SEVENH EDUCATION PROJECT
L INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of Jordan has requested Bank assistance in financing a
project to further develop and implement its medium-term education and
training strategy. The proposed Project would focus on improving the quality,
relevance and cost-effectiveness of education, on institution building, and on
strengthening the linkages between higher education/vocational training and
manpower demand. The estimated project cost is US$108.3 million equivalent,
of which the foreign exchange component is 442. The Government would
contribute about US$65.8 million. The remaining US$42.5 million would be
financed by the Bank (US$40.0 million) and through a technical assistance
grant (US$2.5 million) by the European Economic Community (EEC). The proposed
Project would be exempt from taxes and duties. The Basic Data Sheet is at
Annex 1.1 and Comparative Education Indicators are at Annex 1.2.
IL1 BACKGROUND
A. The Economy and Manpower Issues
Economy and the Labor Force
2.01     Constrained by a meager natural resource base, Jordanian planners
have for many years placed high priority on the development of the country's
human resources through education and training. This has helped Jordan expand
its industry and develop its agriculture, but more importantly, it has enabled
the country to place its well-qualified labor force in the oil-rich states of
the Gulf. During the late 1970s, when employment in the Gulf States was
expanding, over one-third of the Jordanian labor force emigrated to these
countries. The resulting inflow of worker remittances contributed
substantially to Jordan's domestic economic growth, which averaged 12% per
annum for the period 1975-80.
2.02     The economic recession, which began in 1983 with the weakening of oil
prices and a slowdown in the neighboring economies, continues. GDP, in real
terms, grew only 22-32 per annum during 1983-86 as a result of a sharp fall in
the export of manufactured goods and non-factor services; stagnation of
workers' remittances (which amount to 1.3 times the export of goods and
finance 40% of imports); and the decline of foreign aid (by over 502). The
Government recognizes that prospects for only moderate economic growth in the
region present Jordanian planners with the need to adjust the country's
development strategy to the new economic circumstances. The Government also
recognizes that the high rate of natural increase (3.42 per annum) will



- 2 -
require a commensurate increase in public resources just to sustain the
current level of access to services.   Projections indicate that lower levels
of grant aid, particularly from the oil-rich Arab countries, and the
diminishing flow of workers' remittances, together with Jordan's heavy
reliat.ce on imports, will increase the external borrowing requirements during
the Plan period and place a heavy debt burden on the economy beyond 1990. The
resulting budgetary constraints will necessitate more efficient allocation and
use of resources in order to meet the basic ne'. ds of a rapidly growing
population.
2.03     Fueled by the fast population growth and an increase in female
participation in the formal education system, the Jordanian labor force is
projected to grow, in the medium term, by 5% per arnum. This, coupled with
the substantially declining external demand for Jordanian labor due to the
economic slowdown in neighboring countries, is expected to lead to a potential
increase in unemployment over the next five years. As a result, the manpower
problem in Jordan is expected to shift from a situation of selective shortages
that triggered a substantial inflow of non-Jordanian labor in the past, to one
of finding employment for a rapidly increasing domestic workforce.
rrojections also show a pattern of imbalances, with large surpluses of some
white collar workers and major professional categories and significant
shortages of blue collar workers. Improvements in the quality of training and
the development of relevant vocational programs are therefore needed to obtain
a skilled labor force responsive to the changing domestic and external labor
market requirements.
Government's Economic Development Strategy
2.04     While the previous Five-Year Plan emphasized exploitation of natural
resources through large, capital-intensive projects, the thrust of the 1986-90
Plan is to generate employment and incomes through the development of small-
and medium-scale manufacturing enterprises and technical service firms
directed at the export market, and agriculture. The increase of public
investment in education and manpower training, from 9.4% in the 1981-85 Plan
to 11.9% in the 1986-90 Plan, is consistent with this shift in development
strategy. In the recent Bank review of the Five-Year Plan, the
export-oriented employment and growth strategy is endorsed and encouraged.
Indeed, the Bank's priority objectives for assistance to Jordan include:
(a) further development and implementing the new strategy for employment and
growth which focuses on labor-intensive, small- and medium-scale industries;
(b) development of the human resources necessary to sustain this strategy; and
(c) cost-effective delivery of social services, with emphasis on basic needs.
Implications of Government's Strategy for Manpower Development
2.05     The education and training system has a strong base from which to
respond to the manpower demands of the 1986-90 Plan. The major challenge is
to enhance the quality and relevance of the system, sustain enrollment rates
in the face of rapid population growth, and achieve these objectives without
significantly increasing the share of education and training in the Government
budget. The Plan recognizes that vocational training programs should be



-3-
cost-effective, maximize private sector contributions, and focus, in
particular, on the needs of small- and medium-scale enterprises exporting
goods and services. Specific priority areas are: (a) improvement and
expansion of vocational training programs for "blue collar" skilled and
semi-skilled workers and supervisors, particularly for industry; (b)
reinforcement of management training, especially in-service upgrading for the
current corps of public and private sector managers as well as pre-service
training for potential managers of new, more sophisticated enterprises; (c)
development of appropriately-skilled manpower to manage and operate small- and
medium-scale enterprises; and (d) expansion of training programs for health
technicians and para-professionals. With respect to education, the Plan
strategy emphasizes the principles of equity, efficiency, quality, and
relevance; it also reiterates the focus on the schooling of girls and
highlights the inverse relationship between the education of women and
fertility.
B. The Education and Training Sector
Overview
2.06     Jordan's general education system is well-developed.  Basic education
(Grades 1-9) is compulsory, and female and rural students are equitably
represented in primary and secondary schools. In keeping with a major
education policy decision of 1984, a secondary school admission examination
has been introduced, and of those who pass this examination, no more than 60%
of males and 70% of females are allowed to enroll in general (academic)
secondary schools (Grades 10-12). Others may enroll in the Ministry of
Education (MOE) vocational education programs or in vocational training
programs sponsored by other agencies, including the Vocational Training
Corporation (VTC). Approximately 60% of students completing secondary school
enter higher education institutions in Jordan, with about two-thirds enrolling
in the country's 52 private and public community colleges (one to three years
post-secondary) and one-third enrolling in the four public universities.  The
MOE, under the guidance of the National Board of Education, is responsible for
formal education and training which includes primary, lower and upper
secondary general and vocational secondary schools. The Ministry of Higher
Education (MOHE), established in 1985, is responsible for higher education,
namely the universities, post-secondary polytechnics and community colleges.
Policies f r higher education are established by the Higher Education Council
(HEC), chaired by the Prime Minister and consisting of membership from
university boards of trustees and royal commissions. The HEC's functions
include approvals for establishment of higher education institutions and
fields of specialization, the setting of tuition fees, the securing of
financial resources and approval of budgets. The universities are governed by
their own boards which are responsible for establishing general policy
guidelines and determining each year the number of students to be admitted to
the different faculties. A number of other ministries, in particular the
Ministry of Health and the VTC, an autor,omous government agency affiliated
with the Ministry of Labor, are active in training related to their special



-4-
fields. In addition, there is a vigorous effort in job-oriented vocational
training in the private sector. There are, for example, 20 private community
colleges which offer post-secondary courses that are responsive to the job
market. These courses are principally in commercial specializations. An
important vehicle for developing/upgrading skills in the area of management is
the Jordan Institute of Management, which provides a broad range of courses
and seminars for central and local government authorities and also for private
sector managers.
Access and Equity
2.07     The 1985/86 gross enrollment ratios illustrate the extensive coverage
of the school-age population: primary (Grades 1-6) - 112.6%; preparatory
(Grades 7-9) - 97.0X; secondary (Grades 10-12) - 65.2X; and higher education -
24.4% (Annex 1.1). Jordan's primary school enrollment ratio exceeds that of
comparable countries in the region (e.g., Algeria, Egypt and Morocco), and
enrollments in secondary education are the highest in the Middle East (Annex
1.2). Female enrollment growth rate (4.2% per annum) has consistently
outpaced that of males (3.32 per annum). In 1986, females, who represent
48.4% of the school-age population (ages 6-21), accounted for approximately
48Z of total school enrollments.  Access to schooling is equitably provided to
youth in rural and remote locations, due to the MOE policy of providing
classrooms in any catchment area with 15 or more students.  Jordan's
vocational training system has developed significantly over the past decade.
It currently enrolls about 32,000 students and includes a growing network of
MOE secondary vocational schools and a rapidly expanding apprenticeship system
for skilled and semi-skilled worker training run by the Vocational Training
Corporation (VTC). The structure of the education system and enrollment data
are presented in Annexes 2.1 and 2.2, respectively.
Education Cost and Financing
2.08     In 1986, the education and training sector consumed about 8.5X of the
GDP, translating to JD 46.5 (US$118 equivalent) per capita, which is high by
regional standards. Jordan has an impressive record of private sector
contribution to education and to vocational training. In 1986, private
contributions to the sector represented about US$7.5 million. The share of
recurrent expenditures on education in the Government's budget was 20%. About
two-thirds of this expenditure was for schooling provided by the MOE, the
'.(HE, the VTC, and other government ministries and agencies; about one quarter
was for Jordanians enrolled in higher education abroad (about 38,000 and
nearly all studying at their own expense), and the remainder was split,
roughly evenly, between schooling provided by the private sector (at all
levels from kindergarten through community college) and the United Nations
Relief and Works Administration (UNRWA). Three-fourths of all students in
East Bank schools are enrolled in institutions administered by the MOE, MOHE
and other government agencies. The private sector provides schooling for
about 10% of all students, including 98% of all kindergarten, 6% of primary,
preparatory and secondary, and 56% of community college enrollments. UNRWA
accommodates 182 of compulsory-level students as well as providing small
shares of secondary and post-secondary level training for skilled and



-5-
technical occupations. In addition, the Government has mobilized a variety of
extra-budgetary resources for the sector. For example, funding for general
and vocational education provided by the MOE is supplemented by voluntary
tuition fees, municipal education taxes, and community contributions for
school construction, which altogether amount to over 10% (JD 14.8 million or
US$44 million equivalent) of the MOE budget. The VTC programs are supported
by tuition fees (3% of recurrent expenditures), and employers provide
on-the-job training which amounts to about 50% of course training hours.
Legislation to establish a reimbursable 1% payroll training tax on private
sector establishments is pending and expected to be passed before the end of
1988. This would finance about 501 of VTC's recurrent costs. Higher
education is partly financed by earmarked custom duties, tax q and student
tuition fees; together, these cover about one-third of the recurrent and
capital costs. However, with about one-third of students ittending
universities on scholarships from government agencies, the non-governmental
revenue potential of the tuition fee structure is only partially realized.
Quality of Education
2.09     At the school level, two principal factors adversely affect  the
quality of education: the inadequate pedagogical skills of teachers and the
insufficient number and ineffective use of instructional materials.
2.10     Teacher Qualifications.  The MOE currently employs about 29,000
teachers in basic education (Grades 1-9) and 7,000 in general secondary
schools. At present, a two-year post-secondary community college diploma is
the required qualification for basic education teachers and 951 of them are so
qualified. Qualification requirement for general secondary-level teachers is
a post-graduate education diploma. Only 8% of secondary teachers currently
meet this requirement. Of the remainder, 65b have a university degree but no
adequate teaching-training qualifications, and most of the remaining 27% have
only a community college diploma, the qualification for basic education
teachers. Even those teachers who meet the formal qualifications have a wide
range of training needs in skill upgrading and updating, especially in applied
pedagogical skills. Likewise, school principals and supervisors are generally
in need of upgrading training in school management and administration. At
present, the MOE provides for two types of upgrading training. The first
consists of short, in-service upgrading/refresher courses in pedagogy which
are offered during summer vacations. The second is a "fellowship scheme"
offered for full-time study in pursuit of a higher degree. The first program
has not been satisfactory as evidenced by the 50% drop-out rate. One reason
is the program content: it does not adequately respond to specific needs of
teachers. Another possible reason is the lack of appropriate incentives such
as those awarded to participants of the fellowship scheme. To address this
issue, the Government has recently established a set of incentives to
etncourage teachers to complete MOE-approved, job-related training (para.
3.04). The second program, the fellowship scheme for basic education teachers
is for two years, and for secondary education teachers, who already hold a
degree, one year. This fellowship scheme poses several concerns: (i) most of
the programs do not provide training in classroom skills or respond to
teachers' other specific needs; and (ii) it is costly because MOE finances the



tuition and other training costs, and it also pays the teachers attending the
program as well as the substitutes who replace them. It is estimated that the
incremental recurrent cost of upgrading all of the basic education teachers
would be JD 62.6 million (US$187.4 million equivalent) for direct training
costs and JD 87 million (US$260.4 million equivwlent) for substitute teacher
salaries. Similar shortcomings affect the secondary school teacher upgrading
program: direct costs are estimated at JD 6.3 million (US$18.8 million
equivalent) and costs for substitute teachers at JD 14.0 million (US$41.9
million equivalent). It is therefore imperative to develop adequate interim
in-service teacher training courses which are practical and affordable and
which would, in the shortest possible time, eliminate the existing backlog of
teachers to undergo upgrading training (paras. 3.03-3.05).
2.11     Availability and Use of Instructional Materials.  Studies suggest"'
that investment in instructional materials and appropriate curricula is the
most important factor in improving the quality of education and that even a
slight increase in the availability and proper use of instructional materials
can have a highly beneficial impact on educational achievement. Jordan has a
well-established and smooth-functioning curriculum development system and has
made significant progress in preparing suitable textbooks and other
instructional materials for both basic and secondary-level education. In
1986, the MOE budget allocated about JD 2 million or US$5.9 million equivalent
(2.82 of the MOE budget) for textbooks and for the production and distribution
of related instructional materials. In addition to these centrally budgeted
funds, about 602 of the tuition fees charged are retained at school level and
spent on inst:uctional materials and library books (JD 1.26 million or US$3.7
million equivalent i.i 1986). Altogether, the amount spent on instructional
materials represented 4.6% of recurrent MOE expenditures in 1986. By regional
standards, this level of expenditure is a notable achievement. Nevertheless,
at both the basic and secondary education levels, teaching/learning aids and
materials have not complemented the curricula and have oriented the students
to learn by roce rather than through reasoning and application. The
distribution of instructional materials, other than textbooks and blackboards,
is uneven (paras. 3.06 and 3.07), and these materials are inefficientlv
utilized because teachers are not properly trained in their use (para. 2.10).
Regarding textbooks, the present policy is to supply them free to all basic
education students, on the condition that students in Grades 5-9 return them
for recirculation or pay the cost of replacing them. Unfortunately, 402 of
the stock is lost each year while less than 10% of this loss is recovered by
fines. By September 1988, the Government proposes to introduce a new scheme,
prepared with Bank assistance, which involves taking a deposit for books when
they are issued. Finally, concerning the supply of science equipment, the
Government is considering a restructuring of the Science Equipment Production
Center (SEPROC). The Federal Republic of Germany has proposed an extensive
program of technical assistance to help develop SEPROC. The Government plans
1/ Raising School Quality in Developing Countries: B. Fuller, World Bank
Discussion Papers, No. 2: 1986.



to contract two studies on restructuring SEPROC and identifying which items
can be produced cost-effectively.
2.12     Quality and Cost Efficiency of Physical Facilities.  The Government,
in its efforts to provide access to basic education for the rapidly increasing
school-age population, has fallen behind in the construction of school
buildings and has had to resort to rental facilitles, mainly private houses.
In 1985, total enrollment in public compulsory schools was 519,500, of which
238,900 (45.9X) students were accommodated in rented premises. In spite of a
major construction program which would provide 29,700 student places under the
ongoing Bank-financed Fifth and Sixth Education Projects, and an additional
196,200 places under the Third Five-Year Plan (Government, 94,800 places;
USAID, 36,000 places; and the proposed Seventh Education Project, 65,400
places), it is estimated that by 1993 total compulsory-level school
enrollments would increase to 699,000, of which 172,000 (24%) would still be
accommodated in rented premises.
2.13     Conditions in these rented "schools" are particularly unsatWsfactory,
and the quality of the teaching and learning is adversely affected. Main
problems include inadequate sanitary facilities creating health hazards, poor
lighting, impediments to smooth student circulation, absence of library and/or
multi-purpose rooms and storage facilities, and limited, if any, playground
areas. Classes are overcrowded because the rooms are small. Rented buildings
are also less cost-effective than purpose-built facilities because they allow
less effective use of teaching staff.
2.14     School maintenance operates through two programs.  One deals with the
urgent major repairs identified during annual reviews. This program is run by
the Department of School Building Maintenance in the GDPSB. The other program
is referred to as the mobile maintenance system and handles preventive
maintenance and minor repairs. The mobile maintenance system, which was
established with Bank support (Third Education Project), is managed by
District Education Offices. Currently, these units service only 15 of the 22
education districts and need to be increased to provide full coverage. Even
within individual districts, the coverage is inadequate given the large number
of schools to be serviced. School maintenance encounters difficulties with
respect to budgetary resources, personnel, and maintenance management. In the
1984/85 school year, JD 1.1 million (about US$3.8 equivalent) was spent on
major maintenance and repairs. This translates to about JD 785 (about
US$2,300 equivalent) per school or JD 1.3 (about US$4.0) per square meter.
The funds allocated for maintenance in the MOE budget and those earmarked for
maintenance by headmasters from voluntary tuition fees are not adequate to
keep up with the major maintenance/repair requirements, let alone handle minor
repairs and do preventive maintenance. With respect to personnel, the
shortage of civil engineers and technicians, and the rapid staff turnover are
major problems. Finally, maintenance management is not well developed.
Recognizing that maintenance budgets are not likely to have a significant
increase, it is necessary to strengthen the planning of maintenance activities
and develop practical solutions to enable more efficient use of available
budgetary and personnel resources. Among the alternative solutions to be
considered is subcontracting to private enterprises.



- 8 -
Relevance of Vocational Training to Economy's Requirements
2.15     In 1984, the Government announced its decision to increase
enrollments in vocational education and training programs at the expense of
general secondary education and set as its target 46% of the boys and 30% of
the girls who complete basic education (grade nine). By 1985-86, 28% of
secondary school-age boys and 20% of gir's were enrolled in vocational
education or training. Although enrollments are rapidly increasing towards
the targets, changing domestic and regional labor market requirements, as well
as changing technology, necessitate continued adjustments to curricula.
Accordingly, the Government proposes to introduce office technology, computer
maintenance training, an increased number and range of vocational training
programs for women, and improved community college programs (paras. 3.11-3.13).
2.16     Office Technolpgy_and Computer Maintenance Training.  The shortage of
modern office technology skills is being increasingly felt in both the local
and the regional labor markets. Duri,ng early 1987, the MOE Department of
Vocational Education, as part of its program planning, conducted a survey
which confirmed the growing demand in both the private and public sectors for
skilled personnel in minor computer repairs and maintenance (para. 3.11).
2.17     Vocational Programs for Girls.  Although the Government has realized
a recognizable increase in female participation in vocational training,
additional efforts are needed to expand training opportunities and provide
girls with easily marketable skills. To this end, the Government proposes to
experiment with pilot programs for girls in one school and if successful,
convert 50 other existing girls' general secondary schools into vocational
schools by adding appropriate facilities for training in areas of market
opportunities. Programs would include modern office technology and nursing
(para. 3.12).
2.18     Adaptation of Community College Programs.  Public and private
community colleges, which started in the late 1970s, have experienced a rapid
growth. Program offerings of these colleges have played a vital role in
training technicians who were sorely needed in the domestic and regional labor
markets. The rapid expansion of colleges (52 at present) and course offerings
(over 100 fields of specialization) has, however, outpaced the capability of
the Government to identify and develop programs in emerging areas of high
labor market demand. The Government has taken steps to develop a system for
community college accreditation; it has also established a national
examination for community colleges in an effort to ensure the quality of
graduates. The MOHE is now launching a major review of community college
curricula, with special emphasis on their occupational relevance. In addition,
the MOHE is undertaking a complementary effort to improve the validity and
relevance of the internal community college examinations as a means of
safeguarding their quality (para. 3.13).
Planning and Management, and Measurement and Evaluation of Education Quality
2.19     With respect to general education (primary and secondary), the MOE
institutional capacity needs strengthening in two priority areas: the flow of



- 9 -
relevant information for effective and timely decision-making by management,
and efficient planning and resource allocation based on the accurate testing,
measurement and evaluation of education quality. First, the Management
Information System (MIS), established in 1983 with Bank support, needs to be
expanded in capacity to service the Directorates of Examinations, Personnel,
Planning, Finance, Projects and School Buildings. This would enable speedier
processing of administrative work and provide access to data files which
facilitates decision-making and inter-divisional coordination. Second, the
existing systems for testing and measurement of student and teacher
performance as well as for monitoring and evaluating the impact of education
inputs on quality have not been adequately developed. On the testing and
measurement side, results of certification examinations, for example, show
substantial variations over short periods. To illustrate, the success rate
for the General Secondary Examination Certification for the 1983/84 school
year was 49X, whereas for the 1985/86 school year it was 64.02--too
significant a variation to be explained by qualitative changes. One of the
main reasons for this variation is the lack of a test bank to serve as a basis
in the preparation of objective tests which are related to curricula and which
are consistent over time. On the evaluation side, the lack of valid baseline
data to be used in comparing achievement rates over time or under different
combinations of inputs, or with those of other countries. In recognition of
these deficiencies and the need for coordination between testing and
evaluation, the Government, under the January 1987 reorganization of the MOE,
merged the Directorate for Testing and Measurement with that for Evaluation
and Follow-up and created the General Directorate of Examinations (GDE). This
structure needs to be strengthened by building up the technical capacities of
its staff and establishing a well coordinated system which integrates testing,
measurement, evaluation and follow-up activities and which ensures that the
results are reflected in the planning process (paras. 3.15 and 3.16).
2.20     With respect to higher education, this subsector has experienced a
dramatic increase in enrollments over the past decade (from 10,000 in 1976 to
54,000 in 1986). This rapid enrollment growth has not, however, been
accompanied by the development of institutional capacity, especially since the
MOHE was created only in 1985. Strengthening of MOHE's higher-education
planning capacity becomes paramount in light of the fluctuating levels of
aggregate demand as well as the shifting demand for a different mix of skills
(such as advanced technology, management). Accordingly, higher education
programs need to be geared to what the markets demand. In addition,
cost-efficiency of higher education, especially higher levels of cost
recovery, needs to be a paramount objective because of resource constraints.
The continued flow, at the present levels, of extra-budgetary resources are
not likely to increase in tandem with increased enrollments. Similarly, the
share of higher education in the government budget is unlikely to increase.
The Government recognizes that formulation and clear articulation of a higher
education policy that would control the random and heavy enrollment in some
disciplines and orient higher education to meeting social and economic goals
is necessary. To these ends, the Government intends to cociduct a series of
issue-specific studies to help revise curricula, adjust student flows, examine
the possibility of increasing user fees, and analyze employment status of
graduates (para. 3.17).



- 10 -
Experience with Bank Lending
2.21     Since 1972, the Bank has been assisting the Government in the
development of Jordan's education and training system through two credits and
five loans. The experience with past lending has been satisfactory. The
first six projects have helped establish the institutional structure for
secondary and vocational schools and community colleges by training
administrative and specialized personnel. The Project Performance Audit
Report (No. 2494, Sec. M79-336) on the First Education Project noted its
institutional impact in many areas, especially educational planning. The
recommendations of the report, including improved procurement procedures,
better coordination of technical assistance (TA), more effective scheduling of
required inputs and timing of implementation, and more extended training in
management and administration, have been taken into consideration in the
implementation of subsequent projects. The Project Completion Report on the
Second Education Project (PCR No. 4261) concluded that it contributed to the
expansion of vocational and technical education in Jordan at a time when
demand for skilled labor was increasing. It also noted that the physical
components were well executed, that the quality of construction and equipment
was very good, and that all major TA components were fully implemented; there
were, however, delays and cost overruns during implementation.  The Completion
Report on the Third Education Project (PCR No. 6251) found that, while
physical construction objectives were substantially achieved, site acquisition
and poor contractor performance on some components led to some delays.
Qualitative objectives could not be fully evaluated for lack of an appropriate
system. Concerning TA, the Report recommended that, in the future, fellowship
training should be emphasized in preference to specialist services and that
language training should be provided to improve communication between
specialists and counterpart staff, as well as to prepare candidates for
overseas training. These recommendations have been taken into account in the
proposed Project. Implementation of TA in the Fourth Education Project is
proceeding smoothly, as is construction and equipment procurement for the
schools under the Fourth and Fifth Education Projects. For the Sixth
Education Project, co-financed by the Islamic Development Bank, standardized
designs were developed and construction of schools is underway. The Manpower
Development Project supports development of flexible and responsive
pre-employment and skill ugrading programs by the VTC and assists the Jordan
Institute of Public Administration (JIPA) in management training. The Fourth
Education Project and the Manpower Development Project also support the
Ministry of Health's programs for nursing and paramedical training.
Implementation of the Manpower Development Project is six months ahead of
schedule for the VTC and JIPA components. In the area of TA, the capacity of
the MOE to manage programs has improved significantly. In -he Third and
Fourth Projects, TA was financed by UNDP and managed by the Bank. Since then,
with Bank support, the MOE has sufficiently deve'loped its capacity to manage
TA, which it has been doing for the Fifth and subsequent projects.
Bank Lending Strategy
2.22     A proposed FY90 project would help support industrial productivity
and growth by providing the required mix of skill training through



- 11 -
cost-efficient and short-duration programs and by introducing appropriate
policy measures to improve responsiveness of the education and training sector
to industry's needs.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
Project  ebictives
3.01     The proposed Project would assist the Government to further develop
and implement its medium-term education and training strategy. The overall
objectives of the Project are to improve the quality, relevance and cost
efficiency of education; reinforce institution building; and strengthen the
linkage between education/vocational training and skilled manpower demand.
The Project was identified and prepared by the Government with the assistance
of three Bank missions (in December 1985, and in July and November 1986) and
was appraised in April 1987.
Project Composition
3.02     Within the framework of the broad objectives provided above, the
Project would consist of the fo'llowing components:
(a) Improving the quality of education by:
(i)    introducing cost-effective teacher upgrading programs for basic
education and secondary school teachers; and
(ii)    increasing the availability of instructional materials and
training teachers in using them effectively.
(b) Improving the quality of physical facilities and reducing cost per
student place by:
(i)    replacing pedagogically unsuitable rented premises with 58
compulsory-level schools and by applying cost-effective design
norms and space standards; and
(ii)    strengthening school maintenance systems.
(c) Improving the responsiveness of vocational training to skilled
manpower needs by:
(i)    introducing pilot vocational programs for girls in areas of
rapid employment growth;
(ii)    initiating office technology and computer maintenance training;
and



- 12 -
(iii)    adapting community college curricula and programs.
(d) Strengthening education planning, management and the system for
u*easurement and evaluation of education quality by:
(i)    expanding the use of the Management Information System by the
key directorates of MOE;
(ii)    establishing an integrated system for measuring student and
teacher performance and evaluating the effects of different
combinations of educational inputs on education quality and
cost; and
(iii)    strengthening project implementation capacity.
Improving the Quality of Education
3.03     Teacher Upgrading.  To help upgrade/update the pedagogical skills of
basic education teachers, headmasters and supervisors, the proposed Project
would introduce an on-the-job training program that focuses on identified
skill development needs of teachers. By December 1994, about 30,600 education
staff, comprising headmasters, supervisors, and 29,000 basic education
teachers, are expected to have undergone this upgrading training. The
proposed program would generally consist of 200 hours of instruction spread
over a maximum of 18 months; the 200-hour course would be based on two
intensive, full-time summer courses supplemented by weekly seminars and
classroom visits by the trainers.   The upgrading program would include
training in test administration (para. 3.17) and in the use of instructional
materials (para. 3.08). The new scheme would be introduced by the MOE
Division of Certification and Training (DCT) in two phases and would be
carried out in community colleges in each district. During the first phase,
from October 1987 (prior to start of the Project) to September 1989, DCT would
prepare the teacher training programs and train the teacher training staff. A
working group of DCT staff would be established to prepare the criteria for
selection of teachers and identification of their training needs. These
specialist working groups composed of education supervisors, school
principals, and senior teachers would then be organized to prepare
approximately 15 teacher training programs designed to meet the identified
training needs. From April 1988 to June 1989, teacher training specialists
would be recruited from community colleges and universities to prepare
training materials. From June to September 1989, the training specialists
would train about 100 experienced teachers and teacher-trainers to undertake
the second phase which would begin in October 1989. About 5,000 basic
education teachers and staff would participate in the program each year.
Performance of teachers and other staff who have participated in the program
would be assessed annually and the necessary modifications would be
introduced. Annex 3.1 provides further detail.s on the program. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that by January 1990 the MOE
would enroll about 5,000 teachers and would continue to implement the new
in-service upgrading scheme for basic education and secondary teachers on a
scale necessary to meet project targets on schedule (para. 5.02a).



- 13 -
3.04     The Government has recently established a set of incentives to
encourage school teachers to undertake training in skill upgrading. Included
among these is awarding a six-month seniority, on the Civil Service Regulation
Scale, along with all the benefits and privileges, for every teacher
successfully completing an MO0-approved, job-related training program (para.
2.10). It is estimated that teachers trained under the new scheme would
receive an increment of JD 25 per annum (US$75), and by the year 2000 the
Government would have paid a total of JD 7.7 million (US123.0 million) in
training costs and salary increments for 30,000 teachers. The proposed
teacher skill upgrading program is considered an adequate teaching
qualification, at least in the interim period. By contrast, if the previous
fellowship training for upgrading scheme were to be sustained at present rates
(750 graduates per annum) until the year 2000, the estimated cost to the
Government would be JD 60.24 million (US$180.4 million) in training costs,
substitute teachers and salary increments; and only 9,000 teachers, or about
30% of the backlog, would be upgraded.
3.05     A similar upgrading scheme would be applied for the secondary school
teachers, 92% (6,440) of whom have no adequate pedagogical training (para.
2.10). Secondary school teachers are recruited at the bachelor-degree level
and many of them have not had any training in applied pedagogical skills since
such training is not part of the general degree program. Currently, the only
applied pedagogical skills training/upgrading available to them are the
one-year full time programs providing a diploma in education. Many of the
recruits do not undergo this additional program prior to joining the teaching
force. In order to facilitate and accelerate the training of these teachers
in applied pedagogical skills, the Project would assist MOE, in collaboration
with MOHE, to set-up specialized courses in pedagogy at community colleges and
universities. Teachers would be able to attend these courses on their own
time. This would helo reduce the number of skill-deficient teachers faster
than the one-year diploma courses, would be less costly, more effective and
more relevant. In support of this scheme and also to encourage new recruits
to finance their own pedagogical training, during negotiations the Government
pr.vided assurances that the MOE would ensure that incentives are adequate to
attract the required number of secondary education tea^hers and that with
effect from September 1990 teachers who 1ave followed an approved program of
pedagogical training as part of their degree courses (para. 5.02b) will have
priority in appointment. Annex 3.1 provides additional details on the program.
3.06     Instructional Materials.  To support quality improvement efforts, the
Government has prepared a comprehensive program for procurement, production,
and distribution of instructional materials, equipping of school libraries
with books, the introduction of a textbook rental scheme, and the training of
teachers in using instructional materials effectively. With respect to
production, the Educational Television and Radio Division of the MOE has
planned the production of 30 hours of supporting programs for each of the ten
subjects each grade of the secondary school curriculum (900 program hours),
and 30 program hours on each of the six subjects for each of the final three



- 14 -
years in the basic education curriculum (540 program hours). Production of
these programs is well underway. The completed programs have been distributed
to schools through the national broadcasting network and by video and audio
cassettes.   Evaluation of their use in the classrooms is being systematically
conducted by district supervisors and the results are encouraging. Completion
of the remaining programs (24% of scheduled production for basic education and
512 for secondary education) is behind schedule because of the difficulties
encountered in the timely training of new staff to replace staff going on
retirement. To accelerate program production according to scheiule, the
Project would provide training for nine overseas fellowships for 27 man-mou.th
(m/m) (Annex 3.2) as televisicai and radio producers, studio technicians, and
animators. All schools would be equipped with monitors and receivers as part
of the effort to upgrade quality in Grades 7-12. With respect to procurement
and distribution, the Project would provide support to the MOE to increase the
availability and equitable distribution of instructional materials by
equipping each school with basic audiovisual aids and equipment and ensuring
their effective use through modular in-service training programs for
teachers. The Directorate of Educational Technology (DET), with the
assistance of curriculum specialists have prepared, in April 1987, basic lists
of teaching/learning aids needed for each subject and each grade of the basic
education curriculum (Grades 1-9). These lists include teaching/learning aids
and materials which can be produced by teachers. The DET has also completed
an inventory of audiovisual aids available in each school. Based on the
results of these two exercises, lists of items and quantities required to
equip each school (including equipment needed by teachers to produce their own
instructional materials) have been prepared by DET and reviewed by the Bank.
Project ft'nds would finance the additional iterials and equipment needed
(-lides, iilms, and overhead projectors, TI monitors and video-cassette
players) to equip each school according to the specifications of the basic
lists. Procurement and distribution of these additional materials would be
completed by March 1989 (Annex 3.1).
3.07     To ensure that students and teachers would have access to reference
works and other books, the Government proposes under the Project to have
adequately equippedlibraries in the schools to be constructed. The DET has
prepared the guidelines, agreed to by the Bank, on the categories and numbers
of books to be provided to each school. These books would be purchased by the
Government and would be supplemented by the schools from the voluntary tuition
fees. The program would be initiated in early 1988 (Annex 3.1). With respect
to textbooks, the Government proposes to experiment with a deposit scheme in a
representative sample of urban and rural schools. The present scheme, under
which students in Grades 5-9 are required to return books for recirculation,
or reimburse MOE, has serious deficiencies. In practice, only 60% of the
books have been recovered and fines have been difficult to collect. The new
scheme, which involves taking a deposit when books are issued, would be
reviewed with the Bank and, if successful, generalized by September 1988
(Annex 3.1).
3.08     Three Teacher Resource Centers (TRCs) would be established on a pilot
basis (in Amman, Kerak, and Irbid) to provide support to teachers in the
preparation and effective use of instructional materials. The TRCs would



- 15 -
operate under the authority of the respective District Education Director.
Support to teachers would be provided by school supervisors and audiovisual
aids technicians. The centers would be equipped with reference libraries and
repair workshops and would serve as a depository of reference works on
methodology, professional manuals and audio-visual equipment to be loaned to
schools. The proposed Project would provide for the refurbishment of three
existing MOE buildings to be converted to the pilot TRCs. It would train nine
division heads of the Directorate of Audio-Visual Aids (Annex 3.2) as the DET
headquarters team. This team would plan and supervise the development of a
new program based on the TRCs and drawing upon the experience of the pilot TRC
program. Moreoever, three more DET staff members would be trained in TRC
management and one staff in program planning. In addition, nine district
audiovisual aids supervisors, who cover the whole country (15 districts),
would become trainers for the in-service teacher training scheme (paras.
3.04-C 05) and would prepare ans 4mplement for the production and use of
instructional aids. In addition, six audio-visual aid technicians would be
locally trained to work full-time as support staff, two in each TRC. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the three pilot Teacher
Resource Centers would be systematically evaluated starting in September 1990,
and proposals for their possible extension to the remaining 19 districts would
be reviewed jointly with the Bank by September 1991 (para. 5.01c). The TRCs
would start-up in early 1989 (Annex 3.1), by which time the buildings would be
adapted and the equipment procured.
Improving the Quality of Physical Facilities and Reducing Cost Per Student
Place
3.09     School Construction.  As part of its effort to improve quality, the
Government, in its investment plan in support of the Third Five-Year Plan, has
made provisions for replacing one-third of the rented premises, which are
unsuitable for efficient teaching and learning (para. 2.13), by constructing
school buildings to provide 225,900 student places by 1992/93. The Project
would support the construction of 58 compulsory-level schools, representing
about one-third of the Government's target, in urban and suburban areas where
conditions in rented premises are particularly ill-suited for use as schools
(paras. 2.12 and 2.13). These 58 schools would provide a total of 65,400
student places (16,440 males and 48,960 females). Thirty-two schools would be
constructed under Phase I. The experience from this phase would be utilized
to make the necessary modifications for the remaining 26 schools to be
constructed under Phase II starting January 1990; both phases are scheduled
for completion by March 1993 (Annex 3.1). Fifty-five of the 58 schools would
be large with a capacity of 960 or 1,200 places; the remaining three schools
would be small. They would vary in class combinations (Grades 1-6 and Grades
1-9) to allow optimal utilization (Annex 3.3). Accommodation schedules,
prepared in consultation with the Bank, would enable more efficient use of
teaching staff in comparison with existing schools of similar size. To
provide functional classrooms at a lower cost per student place, the
Government and the Bank have developed new space and area norms, and new
standards and criteria concerning size. These revised area norms and
standards would lower the average cost per student place by about 20% by
reducing the average gross area per student by about 37% (from 4.50 m2 to



- 16 -
2.84 m2). These revised area norms and standards are also lower than the
Bank median (3.30 m2) (para. 3.22). During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that designs for all MOE schools to be constr.ucted in the
future would conform to the newly-revised nurms and standards tnat are used in
designing the 58 compulsory-level schools to be constructed under the proposed
Project (para. 5.02d). The Project would also support the rehabilitation to
the existing Taj secondary school for girls (para. 3.12), adaptation and
conversion of classrooms for use as computer workroom (para. 3.11) and
rehabilitation and adaptation of existing administrative buildings for use as
teacher resources centers (para. 3.08). Project funds would finance civil
works, furniture and equipment for these 58 schools.
3.10     Strengthening School Maintenance.  To enable more efficient use of
available budgetary and personal resources, the Project would strengthen the
school building maintenance system by conducting a comprehensive study to
recommend appropriate maintenance policies and planning processes. The study
would analyze the existing maintenance budgets, personnel and practices (para.
2.14). It would also review manpower requirements and the effect of salary
scales on staff turnover in the mobile maintenance units which handle
preventive maintenance. The study would be contracted to a local firm or
consultant (Annex 3.1). During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that by July 1989, it would implement the agreed recommendations of
the maintenance study to be completed by September 1988, when it would be
reviewed jointly with the Bank (para. 5.02e). Project funds would finance
local consultants to carry out the study as well as 80 m/m local training to
be undertaken by VTC for staff of mobile maintenance units. The training
would be implemented according to specifications and recommendations made by
the study and would be completed by June 1989 (Annex 3.1).
Improving the Relevance of Vocational Training to Labor Market Needs
3.11     Office Technology and Computer Maintenance Training.  The existing
business program in commercial schools does not offer training in
business-related computer applications, although the need for such skills has
been identified in regional as well as local labor markets (para. 2.16). As
part of Government's effort to make vocational education programs and
community college curricula more relevant to the economy's requirements
(paras. 2.15-2.18), the Project would introduce such courses on a pilot basis,
starting September 1989 (Annex 3.1), in four commercial schools--three girls
schools in Amman, Irbid, and Zirka (1,050 places); and one boys school in
Amman (350 places). The program would be evaluated after three years,
reviewed jointly with the Bank and possibly extended to the remaining 63
commercial schools. Project funds would finance equipment (computers,
printers and word processors) and furniture, 48 m/m of overseas fellowships,
24 m/m of local fellowships/training, and 12 m/m of local specialists'
services to assist in preparing and implementing the new programs. A related
requirement of the rapidly expanding office technology field is an adequate
number of skilled technicians in the similarly fast-growing computer
maintenance area (para. 2.16). The Project would introduce a basic computer
repair and maintenance program in the only two industrial secondary schools at
Amman and Zarka (Annex 3.1). It would provide the necessary tools, equipment



- 17 -
and teaching machines (electrical instruments, electronics training kits,
transistor learning systems, logic trainers, and micro-processor trainers) in
accordance with lists and specifications prepared by the Directorate of
Vocational Education. Overseas fellowships for eight instructors in
computer-based office technology for 48 m/m; overseas fellowships for four
instructors in computer naintenance for 36 m/mi; and 12 m/m of local specialist
services (Annex 3.2). Twenty students would graduate per annum from each
school beginning in June 1992. This is expected to meet labor market
requirements.
3.12     Vocational Programs for Girls.  To support the Government's policy to
expand the range of vocational programs offered to girls (para. 2.17), the
Project would help to introduce pilot vocational programs in a secondary
school for girls in the Taj district of Amman (Annex 3.1). This school, which
was originally constructed as a general secondary school would, under the
Project, be provided with workshop and laboratory facilities to accommodate
vocational programs in assistant nursing (90 places), beauty culture (25
places), dressmaking (25 places), and two specialized commercial
programs--office management and finance (160 places). Practical training for
assistant nurses would take place in a local hospital. The school would be
one of the girls schools identified for the introduction of business-related
computer applications into its office management program (para. 3.11). The
pilot experience would be applied to an expansion of up to 50 other schools
(originally constructed as general secondary schools) in other densely
populated urban areas.  In addition to financing the civil works for
extensions, project funds would finance construction of workshops, equipment
and furniture for the new workshops and laboratories, 27 m/m of overseas
fellowships for 3 nursing supervisors; 36 m/i of overseas fellowship for 2
dressmaking and 2 beautician instructors to be trained as supervisors. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the business-related
computer applications and computer maintenance skills programs (para. 3.11)
and the pilot vocational programs for women would be evaluated by December
1991 and reviewed jointly with the Bank (para. 5.02f).
3.13     Adaptation of Community College Curricula.  The rapid proliferation
of public and private community colleges since 1980 (para. 2.18) has not been
matched by progressive adaptation of the programs they offer to the economy's
requirements (para. 2.18). There are six main programs (teacher training,
commercial, engineering, paramedical, social services, and agriculture), and
each one is composed of various specializations ranging in number from two
(agriculture) to 40 (engineering). These curricula now need thorough review
for the following reasons: students do not receive enough practical training;
there is an overlap between many courses; course duration needs to be
rationalized; and some programs need new specializations to improve their
relevance. The Project would support the review of the community college
programs as follows: the MOHE would review the curricula, materials and
methods of each program specialization and prepare new specifications where
change is necessary. In parallel with this review, the Project would
establish a student achievement teating and program evaluation system, which
would: (a) improve the criteria used in admitting students to courses;
(b) set realistic institutional and student performance standards; and



- 18 -
(c) systematically evaluate programs to enable standards to be maintained and
improved. Project funds would finance local consultants to help develop test
banks and testing instruments for new curricula. A specialist in curriculum
and program design would be provided for 24 staff-months to assist the work of
program committees and to train counterpart staff in the Community College
Curriculum Division of the MOHE Community College Directorate (CCD). A
specialist in testing and evaluation would be provided for 38 m/m to assist
the Testing and Examinations Department of the CCD in establishing an
evaluation system and to supervise on-the-job training of 12 new staff who
would receive 144 m/m of overseas training (Annex 3.2).  This specialist would
also help MOHE launch a program of local training for community college
teachers to write and administer tests. College staff would be trained
throughout 1989 and the introduction of new courses completed by September
1991 (Annex 3.1). During negotiations, the Government provided assurances
that a final report on community college curricula review would be issued by
December 1991 and reviewed jointly with the Bank (para. 5.02g).
Strengthening Planning, Management, and the System for Measurement and
Evaluation of Education Quality at the Ministries of Education and Higher
Education
3.14     Expanding the MOE Management Information Systems.  The MOE Management
Information System (MIS) does not yet contribute fully to management
decision-making because Directorates do not have their own computers to link
them to the data base in the MOE's central system (para. 2.19).  To provide
access to the data base, project funds would provide 12 small computers and
related software for the Directorates of Examinations, Personnel, Planning,
Projects and School Buildings, and Finance and link them to the MOE's central
computer system installed in the Ministry's Computer Center. The Center would
develop special software programs to extend the MIS. Training would be
provided for three center staff in computer operations and for 16 center staff
in systems analysis and programming. The director and Center staff would also
study the MIS used in other education systems outside Jordan. Equipment would
be procured by June 1989 (Annex 3.1), and staff training would begin in early
1988 and be completed by June 1991 (Annex 3.2). Project funds would finance
34 m/m of overseas fellowships, one m/m of observation visits.
3.15     Strengthening Testing, Measurement and Evaluation Systems.  The
Project would provide support to the Directorate of Examinations to strengthen
the technical capacities of its staff as well as establish the bases for an
integrated system to measure and monitor the quality of student achievement
and teacher performance and to evaluate education programs and processes and
their cost effectiveness (Annex 3.1). The evaluation system to be set up
would: (a) establish baseline achievement data for Grades 1-12; (b)
supervise, with assistance from the leading institutions, a comparative
assessment of the achievement levels of school children in Jordan with those
of other comparable countries; (c) help identify learning deficiencies and in
turn develop remedial instruction; and (d) help assess the impact on student
achievement of different educational inpt'ts such as teacher upgrading, the
availability and use of instructional materials, aad improved school
facilities. This information would guide future management decisions on how



- 19 -
to deploy increasingly scarce resources to achieve the greatest impact on
quality imorovement.
3.16     Staff development would be carried out through specialist services
and local and overseas training. In the evaluation and follow-up area,
project funds would finance a foreign specialist in evaluation for six m/m,
eight m/m of overseas fellowships, two m/m of study tours and eight staff
me;mbers would be trained part-time on local university courses. The foreign
specialist in evaluation would be assigned to the GDE to assist on the job
training of the eight GDE staff and in designing their training programs which
include part-time training on local university courses as well as assignments
to evaluation and testing units overseas (Annex 3.2). In the area of testing
and measurement, project funds would finance equipment and materials as well
as 12 m/m of foreign consultants and 14 m/m of overseas fellowships.  The
testing/examination specialist would help establish an in-house training
program to train 180 district supervisors per annum for three years (540
supervisors). These supervisors, in turn, would train 5,000 teachers, over
five years, in test administration in schools. This training would form part
of the general in-service teacher training scheme (para. 3.03).
3.17     Strengthening Higher Education Planning.  Until now, the growth of
higher education and the type of programs offered have responded to social
demand rather than to the specific needs of the labor market (para. 2.05). In
recognition of its need to strengthen the information base for higher
education policy and program planning, the Third Five-Year Plan (1986-90),
would undertake studies that would: (a) make higher education planning more
relevant to labor market needs and review existing methods of planning and
financing higher education; (b) review the employment status of Jordanian
graduates qualified in Jordan and abroad, the relevance of their training to
their jobs, and the financial returns of investment to such training; (c)
evaluate the effectiveness of community college programs and their relevance
to community and labor-market needs; (d) provide accurate data on the number,
location, type of course/specialization, and source of financing of Jordanian
students studying abroad; and (e) identify the number of secondary education
graduates likely, for each year of the plan, to gain admission to higher
education or to join the labor market in order to review the expansion plans
of institutions of higher education and their admission and cost-recovery
policies. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that these
studies would be reviewed jointly by the Government and the Bank by no later
than December 1990 (para. 5.02h).
3.18     Strengthening Project Implementation Capacity.  Until December 1986,
Bank-financed projects were implemented by the Projects Implementation
Directorate (PID) which had an excellent track record and experienced staff.
In the recent reorganization of the MOE, this Directorate was merged with that
for School Buildings to form the General Directorate for Projects and School
Buildings (GDPSB) (Annex 3.6, Chart 1). A major task of GDPSB would be
carrying out the Government's zchool building program. During the Five-Year
Development Plan Period (1986-90), the school building program would provide
200,000 places, 65,400 of which would be provided by the Project. To support
GDPSB in this task as well as to help enhance technical capacities of staff



- 20 -
responsible for project coordination and implementation, (par&. 3.31) the
Project would provide the GDPSB with: (a) two passenger vehicles for
construction site supervision, a crane truck to speed-up heavy equipment
handling; and (b) 28 m/m of overseas training for 12 GDPSB staff and
on-the-job training programs for another 28. The training would ensure that
all GDPSB staff are able to follow common procedures in design, procurement,
project programming and cost controls (para. 2.19). Experienced staff of the
former Projects Implementation Department would provide this on-the-job
training.



- 21 -
B. Project Cost and Financing Plan
Project Cost
3.19     The total project cost is estimated at JD 36.2 million or US$108.3
million equivalent. The breakdown by component is provided in Table 3.1 below.
TABLE 3.1: PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
NOTE: 1. Total project costs include US$4.1 million for identifiable duties
and taxes.
2. Net project costs excluding taxes and duties is US$104.2 million.
3. Subtotals and total figures do not add up due to Costab rounding.



- 22 -
A summary of project costs by category of expenditure is given in Table 3.2.
TABLE 3.2: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
3.20     Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimates of school construction costs are
based on the recently awarded contracts for comparable facilities under the
Sixth Education Project. This cost averages US$275 per square meter (M2).
Costs of rehabilitation/extension of existing facilities are based on mission
estimates. Furniture costs are based on 102 of the new building construction
cost, and equipment costs are derived from master equipment lists prepared for
schools financed by the Bank under the Sixth Education Project. Technical
Assistance (TA) costs have been estimated on the basis of recent prices for
comparable TA in the Sixth Education Project and after consultation with
UNDP.  The per m/m cost of specialists include housing, relocation expenses,



- 23 -
salaries, subsistence, office services, fees, overheads and recruitment
costs. Base cost estimates reflect prices as projected for October 1987.
3.21     Customs Duties and Taxes.  Project costs include an estimated US$4.1
million in indirect taxes on locally procured civil works and goods.
Equipment and goods imported directly for use by government ministries are
exempt from duties and taxes.
3.22     Costs and Areas Per Student.  Area allocations for academic and
communal construction shown in Annex 3.4 are appropriate and compatible with
the Bank median allocations for such facilities (3.30 m2). Total capital
costs per student place for academic and communal facilities are comparable to
the costs of similar facilities in Bank-financed projects in other countries.
Cost comparisons are shown in Annex 3.4.
3.23     Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include a physical contingency
of US$7.6 million, corresponding to about 8% of the base cost: 5% of
equipment (based on equipment lists used for the Sixth Education Project) and
10% of the cost of other items. Price contingencies between October 1987 and
the end of project implementation are estimated at US$10.0 million equivalent,
or about 10% of the base cost plus physical contingencies. Total
contingencies (US$17.6 million) represent 19.3% of the base cost. Annual
rates of price increases have been applied to all categories in US dollar
terms at the following annual rates: local, 5% in 1988-94; and foreign, 1% in
1988-90 and 3.5% in 1991-94.
3.24     Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$47.1 million (44%) and broken down as follows: (a) new
construction and rehabilitation/extensions of existing facilities - 42%; (b)
furniture, equipment, materials, books and software - 90%; (c) fellowships -
86%; (d) consultants - 29%; (e) local training - 15%. These percentages were
based on mission calculation of the indirect foreign exchange of construction,
and on the assumptions that fellowships would be overseas, that 15% of
consultants would be foreign and that indirect foreign exchange costs for
local training would be 15%.
Project Financing
3.25     The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million would finance 36.9% of the
total project cost and 85% of the foreign exchange co-mponent. The Government
would finance the remaining 7% of foreign costs (US$4.6 million) and all local
costs (US$61.2 million) including taxes (US$4.1 million). EEC would finance,
through a technical grant of US$2.5 million, overseas training and foreign
specialists (paras. 3.27 and 5.01).
3.26     The proposed loan would help finance civil works (new construction,
site development, rehabilitation/extensions) and provision of furniture,
equipment, materials and software. Table 3.3 shows the financing plan by
category of expenditure.



- 24 -
TABLE 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Estimated
Categcry                               - US$ Million              Share of Bank
of Expenditure                    Gov't   Bank    EEC    Total       Financing (2)
Civil Works                         38.0   27.0    -        65.0         41.5
Furniture                            3.2    2.6    -         5.8         44.8
Equipment. Materials & Software    0.7    8.3    -           9.0         92.2
Books                                2.0    -      -         2.0          0.0
Technical Assistance                12.1    -      2.3      14.4          O.C
Unallocated                          9.8    2.1    0.2      12.1         17.4
Total                         65.             2.5    108.3          36.9
Recurrent Cost and Implications
3.27     In 1993, when all project components are expected to be completed and
the project institutions are fuily operational, they are estimated to
generate, in 1986 prices, about JD 0.6 million per annum in incremental
recurrent costs. This would translate to an additional 0.8% per annum (in
1986 prices) in the MOE's recurrent budget. These cost estimates include
remuneration of additional teaching and non-teaching staff, additional
instructional materials, and maintenance of additional equipment and
buildings. The additional costs generated by the Project would be more than
offset by the savings expected to be realized by the new in-service teacher
upgrading scheme and the school construction program.
C. Project Implementation
Status of Preparation, Implementation, and Technical Assistance
3.28     Status of Preparation.  The proposed Project is at an advanced stage
of preparation. Preparation of designs and tender documents for school
construction has started and would be completed by December 1987; furniture
and equipment lists with related technical specifications would be the same as
those prepared for compulsory level schools under the Sixth Education Project;
and all of the technical assistance packages have been defined and detailed
terms of reference have been completed.
3.29     Architectural Design and Engineering Services.  Consultants for the
preparation and development of designs have been selected in accordance with



- 25 -
the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, dated August 1981. The consultants
would be responsible for site surveys, soil tests and analysis, and all stages
of the design/supervision process. Suitable sites for all project
institutions have been identified and selected. Currently, 32 of the 58 sites
have been acquired and the remaining sites are expected to be acquired by the
time of negotiations. The MOE would obtain the necessary clearances from the
Department of Antiquities with respect to the sites for 58 compulsory schools
to be constructed (para. 4.03).
3.30     Implementation Period and Schedule.  The Project, in accordance with
the disbursement profile for the country and sector, would be implemented over
seven years (1988-94). Project Completion Date would be June 30, 1994 and the
Closing Date, December 31, 1994. The proposed project duration would allow
for a period of readjustment following major reorganisation of the MOE and, in
particular, of the GDPSB (para. 3.15). The TA component would take a full
seven years to be completed. The same would apply to the establishment of an
integrated testing, measurement and evaluation system which would require a
critical minimum time to yield its results. To ensure that the proposed
Project meets its key objectives and is implemented in a timely manner, the
Government has developed, jointly with the Bank, detailed action plans and
identified target dates for completion of major tasks. The Project action
plans and implementation schedule are summarized in Annexes 3.1 and 3.5,
respectively.
3.31     Implementation Responsibilities.  With the exception of adaptation of
community college curricula and examinations (para. 3.13) to be implemented by
the MOHE, the Project would be implemented by the General Directorate of
Projects and School Buildings (GDPSB) (para. 3.18). The Project would provide
training to GDPSB staff to support this objective (Annex 3.6, Chart 1).
Specific project implementation functions of the GDPSB would include: (a) in
the civil works area, selection of consultants and preparation of architects'
briefs, review of designs and bid documents, calling for tenders, and
follow-up of construction; (b) with regard to procurement of goods,
preparation of furniture and equipment lists and related specifications,
organization of bidding, supervision of the execution of contracts,
certification of payments, inspections, warehousing, distribution to schools,
installation, commissioning and settlements of claims; (c) coordinating
technical assistance; (d) keeping project accounts; and (e) selection and
acquisition of sites and provision of schoo'  building maintenance.  Contract
award for civil works would be decided by the Government Tendering Directorate
in the Ministry of Public Works.
3.32     The MOHE component (communicy college curricula and examination
reform) would be implemented by the Department of Curricula and Examinations
of the Directorate of Community Colleges and Institutes. A steering committee
to monitor implementation of the action plans has already been set up. The
committee is chaired by the Secretary General of the MOHE and is composed of
the directors of the Directorates of Development of Higher Education,
Administration and Finance Affairs, and Community Colleges and Institutes; the
heads of the Departments of Curricula and Examinations; and the Secretary of



- 26 -
the Higher Education Council. Liaison with the Bank would be through the
Secretary General of the MOHE. The organizational structure of MOHE is given
in Annex 3.7.
3.33     Technical Assistance (TA).  The in-service teacher training scheme
(para. 3.02) would be implemented by the MOE General Directorate of
Supervision and Teacher Training which would recruit additional specialist
assistance from local community colleges and universities in accordance with
their existing practice for in-service training. Local training for
evaluation and testing would be undertaken through part-time courses at local
universities (para. 3.16). Local technician training for TRCs (para. 3.08)
would be provided by the VTC. Specialists and advisors for MOHE curriculum
and evaluation working groups and committees (para. 3.13) would be recruited
from institutes of higher education and the private sector. To simplify the
management of the remaining TA, the MOE and MOHE would obtain beparate,
comprehensive TA contracts for foreign specialist services and overseas
fellowships for their respective programs. At least three suitably qualified
training institutions would be requested to submit proposals, following a
short listing of institutions acceptable to the Bank. The consultants would
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures acceptable to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency". Detailed action plans,
an implementation schedule, and terms of reference for TA have been prepared
and are available in Annexes 3.1, 3.2 and in the working papers on the Project
file (Annex 3.8).
3.34     The TA program has been arranged in two parts.  Part A consists of
foreign specialists and overseas fellowships for the components related to
strengthening the planning, management, and testing and measurement of
education quality (paras. 3.14-3.16); improving the quality of education
(paras. 3.03-3.09); and improving the relevance of vocational training to
labor market needs (paras. 3.11-3.13). Part B consists of specialist services
and training provided from local resources associated primarily with teacher
training (paras. 3.03-3.05), studies for higher education (para. 3.17),
community college curricula review (para. 3.13), and the school maintenance
study (para. 3.10). The cost of the total program (Parts A and B) is
estimated at US$15.1 million net of contingencies of which US$2.5 million is
for foreign specialist services (80 staff-months) and training overseas (460
staff-months). Annex 3.2 provides a summary of Part A (foreign specialists
and overseas training) and Part B (local training and local specialist
services). Jordan has already displayed a capacity for managing TA
effectively (para. 2.21) and has developed an implementation strategy for the
proposed TA program (para. 3.33) acceptable to the Bank. The Government has
secured a commitment from the EEC to provide grant aid for Part A (foreign
specialists and overseas training) of the TA program. Allocations have been
made in the Third Five-Year Plan to finance Part B of the TA program.
Procurement
3.35     Except as noted in para. 3.36, bids for civil works, furniture and
equipment would be invited under international competitive bidding (ICB)



- 27 -
procedures in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May 1985). Furniture and equipment bids would be
arranged in appropriate packages so that each package can be supplied from a
single source for purposes of uniformity and discounting, and it is estimated
that they would account for 90b of the total value of furniture and
equipment. The remaining 10% would be suitable for procurement procedures
other than ICB. The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4.
3.36     The exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follo*s:
(a) Construction of minor extensions and rehabilitation of existing
buildings estimated to cost a total of US$0.9 million would be
carried out under local competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
(b) Contracts for furniture equipment and materials, estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 equivalent each and totaling US$0.6 million,
would not be expected to interest foreign suppliers either because of
the low value or the variety of items in each contract; they would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding and advertised locally.
(c) Sundry items not exceeding US$50,000 in each contract and aggregating
to a maximum of US$1.1 million equivalent could be purchased on the
basis of a minimum of three quotations in accordance with the local
procurement procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
(d) Acquisition of books (estimated to cost less than US$2.4 million in
aggregate) would be done through negotiations with publishers.



- 28 -
TABLE 3.4: AMOUNTS AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT-'
(US$ million)
Procurement Methods
Procurement Elements                    IOB       LCB       Other         Total
Civil Works                            71.1       0.9         0.0          72.0
(27.4)     (0.4)       (0.0)        (27.8)
Furniture                               5.8       0.6         0.0           6.4
(2.2)     (0.2)       (0.0)         (2.4)
Equipment and Materials                 9.6       0.1         1.1          10.8
(8.7)     (0.1)       (1.0)         (9.8)
Books                                   0.0       0.0         2.4           2.4
(0.0)     (0.0)       (0.0)         (0.0)
Technical Assistance                    0.0       0.0        16.7          16.7
(0.0)     (0.0)       L            (0.0)
Total                            86.5        1.6        20.2         108.3
IBRD Financing:                 (QL7)                   (1.0L
ai  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the
Bank loan.
3.37    In the comparison of bids for furniture and equipment to be procured
through ICB, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of
15%, or the existing customs duty, whichever is lower, above the c.i.f. prices
of competing imports. Under ICB procedures, invitations to bid and the
proposed award of contracts would be reviewed by the Bank prior to final award
decisions. It is estimated that this review would cover about 90% of the
value of all equipment and furniture contracts (US$14.8 million equivalent).
The remaining 10% of furniture and equipment contracts would be subject to
selective post award reviews.
3.38    The Jordanian Government has recently enacted new local competitive
bidding procedures which are being reviewed by the Bank to ensure that they
are consistent with the Bank's guidelines. During negotiations, with respect
to local competitive bidding procedures that are not fully consistent with the
Bank's procurement guidelines, agreement was reached, through a side letter,
regarding the needed changes in the local procedures.



- 29 -
Disbursements
3.39    Disbursements from the loan would be made in accordance with Table 3.5
below.
TABLE 3.5: ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT OF THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
(US$ million)
% of Expenditures
Category                   Amounts                  to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                    27,000,000          41% of total expenditure
(2) Furniture                       2,600,000          45% of total expenditure
(3) Equipment and Materials         8,300,000          1002 of foreign
expenditures, 100l of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 90%
of local expenditures for
other items procured
1 cally
(4) Unallocated                     2,100,000
Total                          40,o0K,om
Disbursements from the proposed loan are expected to take place, on average,
six months after incurring the expenditure. A disbursements schedule and
profile, reflecting this and providing a comparison with the regional profile,
are shown in Annex 3.9. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
December 31, 1994. Disbursements against contracts for goods and services
exceeding US$100,000 would be made against normal documentation.
Disbursements against contracts below that level would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) available for examination by Bank missions.
3.40     Special Accounts.  To facilitate timely project implementation, the
Government would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars to which the Bank
would make an initial deposit equivalent to about US$3.0 million. The Special
Account would be replenished against withdrawal applications when the
undisbursed balance of the account falls below an amount equal to 502 or less
of the amount of the Special Account. Withdrawal applications would be
supported by appropriate documentation.



- 30 
Auditing and Reporting
3.41     The Government would continue to follow the procedures it has
satisfactorily followed in the past. The GDPSB would maintain a separate
account for the Project and would prepare quarterly reports for submission to
the Bank within 45 days of each quarter. Project accounts including the
Special Account, would be audited in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank"
(March 1982). The Bank would be provided, within six months of the end of
each fiscal year, with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank
may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by che auditor on
disbursements against a certified statement of expenses. During negotiations,
the Government pr3vided assurances to this effect (para. 5.02i).
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01     Under the proposed Project, a practical, on-the-job training program
geared to specific skill development and upgrading needs of teachers would
introduced. This in-service training would replace the current practice of
awarding teacher; full tuition fellowships to pursue higher-degree programs
for upgrading purposeb and paying their salaries as well as those of
substitute teachers who replace them. The proposed program would upgrade the
skills of 30,600 basic education teachers, headmasters and supervisors. A
similar scheme geared to secondary school teachers' needs would introduce
pedagogical skill training courses and would, in comparison with the existing
fellowship program, accelerate the speed by which teachers can be upgraded and
reduce the cost per teacher. The school construction program would provide
65,400 student places. Application of the revised accommodation norms and
design standards to all corpulsory-level school construction would reduce the
average gross area per student by about 37% and average cost per student place
by about 20X. It is estimated that by using these cost-efficient norms and
standards, the Government could, on the 60 largest compulsory schools to be
constructed under the Third Five-Year Plan alone, realize savings on the order
of JD 10 million (US$29.9 million equivalent). In addition, replacement of
the pedagogically ill-suited temporary rented facilities with proper
classrooms would help improve quality of learning. A series of issue-specific
studies would provide the basis for adjustments to the existing higher
education policies, programs and financing mechanisms. In addition, the
studies would help set the framework for improved linkage between higher
education and the domestic and external labor markets, thereby enhancing
gainful employment opportunities for graduates. Introduction of pilot
vocational training programs for girls in areas offering high employment
potential would facilitate their integration into the labor market. Further
support to institution building would improve longer-term planning and
resource management at the level of the Ministries of Education and Higher
Education. Strengthening of the testing, measurement and evaluation system
would help determine a cost-effective mix of inputs to help maximize quality.



- 31 -
Risks
4.02     A thrust of the Government's Third Five-Year Development Plan
(1986-90) is to generate employment and incomes through the -development of
labor intensive, small- and medium-scale manufacturing enterprises and
technical service firms directed at the export market. The Bank's lending
strategy for Jordan places heavy emphasis on developing the human resources
necessary to sustain this strategy as well as to provide the skilled manpower
for the productive sectors. Hence, the proposed Pro!ect with its primary
emphasis on the quality of education and training and their relevance to labor
market needs would constitute an essential element in the implementation of
Jordan's Third Five-Year Plan strategy. The proposed Project does not pose
major risks on the substance of project components. With respect to
implementation, the Government has had an excellent track record in carrying
out Bank-financed projects in the sector in the past. In addition, to guard
against any potential risk related to realization of project objectives in a
timely mantner, a series of deta:led action programs and schedules have been
agreed upon with the Government. These programs call for periodic joint
reviews on specified dates as well as implementation of specific follow-up
actions resulting from these reviews to be carried out by the Government.
Environmental Impact of the Project
4.03     A concern relating to the potential presence of antiquities at the
sites for the 58 schools to be constructed has been discussed during
appraisal. It has been confirmed that the Ministry of Education would obtaii,
clearance from the Department of Antiquities for any new sites prior to
construction. In the event antiquities turn up unexpectedly, the Law of
Antiquities would come into effect and govern subsequent excavation, with
provision of opportunities to recover the antiquities. In the event that the
excavation would substantially delay construction scart-up, another suitable
school site would be identified. Based on the Bank's previous experience with
school construction on new sites, no undue complications are foreseen.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) by January 1990 the MOE would have enrolled approximately 5000
teachers and would continue to implement the new in-service upgrading
scheme for basic education and secondary school teachers on a scale
necessary to meet project targets on schedule (para. 3.03);
(b) the MOE would ensure that incentives are adequate to attract the
required number of secondary education teachers and that with effect
from September 1990, teachers who have followed an approved program
of pedagogical training as part of their degree courses (para. 3.05)
will get a priority in appointment;



- 32 -
(c) the three pilot TRCs would be systematically evaluated, starting in
September 1990, and proposals for their possible extension to the
remaining 19 districts would be reviewed jointly with the Bank by
September 1991 (para. 3.08);
(d) designs for all MOE schools to be constructed in the future would
conform to the newly-revised accommodation norms and design standards
that are used for the 58 compulsory-level schools to be constructed
under the proposed Project (para. 3.09);
(e) by July 1989 it would implement the agreed recommendations of the
maintenance study to be completed by September 1988, when it would be
reviewed jointly with the Bank (para. 3.10);
(f) the business-related computer applications and computer maintenance
skills programs and pilot vocational programs for girls would be
evaluated by December 1991 and reviewea jointly with the Bank
(para. 3.12);
(g)  a final report on  ommunity college curricula review would be issued
by December 1991 and reviewed jointly with the Bank (para. 3.13);
(h) the higher eduw ation studies as articulated in the Third Five-Year
Plan would be irviewed jointly by the Government and the Benk by no
lster than Decem er 1990;
(1) within six months of the end of each fiscal year, the Government
would provide the Bank with an audit report of such scope and detail
as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by
the auditor on disbursements against a certified statement of
expenses (para. 3.41).
5.02     In addition, with respect to local competitive bidding procedures
that are not fully consistent with the Bank's procurement guidelines,
agreement was reached, through a side letter, regarding the needed changes in
the local procedures (para. 3.38).
5.03     Subject to the above conditions, the project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank Loan of US$40.0 million equivalent to the Hashemite Kingdom
of Jordan for a term of 17 years, including a grace period of 4 years.



- 33 -                               Annex 1.1
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Basic Data AL
1. Population (1986 Estimate)
Population:                                                 2.5 million
Annual rate of growth:  including immigration               4.02
Current natural increase                                    3.41
Proportion less than 15 years old                           492
2. Labor Force (1986)                                           645,000
% in secondary sector                                       27.01
3.  GNP Per Capita (1986)                                       US$1,570
4. School Enrollments (1986/87)
Enrollmenta    Enrollment
(1987)         Ratios      Girls as S of
Level at Age Group         Grade     (in '000s)       (1986)       Enrollments
Primary (6-11)              1-6        542.5          112.6           48.1
Preparatory (12-14)         7-9        214.7           97.0           47.2
Secondary (15-17)         10-12        130.5           65.2           '8.4
Higher (18+)             13-16+         53.7           24.4           44.9
5. Expenditure on Education (1986, MOE only)
Capital:                   US$230.0 million
Recurrent:                 US$212.5 million
1/ All data are for East Bank only.



- 34 -
ni"now tiaLem                                                                       Annex 1. 2
hGo 0. I"?                                                                            Tage-I of 2
Can"
IWU"00                               COWUTION                &==NW
on awAttos UCUMM    AM?                              U" PON                  UM? can HMW=108
m                 As mom  aftemm  L"Owf 1-tumn nway  "MART ftwm    un PM  SICON001 secommy *low
"a Mr. WTTA MM! M MAI, COMU AUWAM 10i Ult  low". SCML   STMM tWATt= ftOW? TO 90tftL. S"olns goal.
VW "tLu. (1180  DCVMD tO COMOM    Mt S&C St  (t)  SAM  C"U                                              m          AS fftMi ONOOM"  ItAttO   m                        utto
(1971) 0*19)   nwATtoo  timagm                        (1)         (1976)   (2)           (1)      ?&AM=     GO/C&Pt?A          (1)         (2) ,    TUCI=          (s)
(3)            (4)            (1)            (6)        (7)       (s)         (9)   I   (10)            (I 1)        (11)        0 1)    (14)
m a        l*lmlqw          14.6b  8,610        4.30          14.6                                       1031,     too          I I        -                            is         I I      to."
CAiUM                4 1    23.16  9,6501;    7.18           to."?        lot 3at 23at                  lw         too          is         19."?         too           011        Is        22.60
a us mm t. a.    it  6t.2 13.200   4.6                        mo    -   -   -    "b    W                           tooo         -          -             loop           94a    -            13,104
OtiaRLAM             to     14.0  10,400        7.9            1.1        to   is   11         tob?      oo         is          Is         IS.3                        SI         13        11.44)
1=  SLUAND           to      ).26  6,001b    s. sw           11.6         31   3 I   to        "b       loo        too          24         11.6          too           SI         I S       21.4006
swim                 ?9      S.)  13.2$0        9.0          tell         it   10   10         "b        I"        too          IN*        19.9          too            Pix       I ogy     16.WV
tvm NMI
govsum               83       I.Ob     9106    6.0           22.0         41   34   23         40        too        77          31         10.0           40            20        at         1.40
MIMI                 Si      4 1       M        3.660        19.0         42   38   27         IS        2"         is          it         20.2           11                      17         1.00
CMNRM                        0:411    US        11*0         29.0         49   it   22         4$         76        40          310        -              4s                      is         0.60
Wtmmt                64      0 A       An        3.0          11.9         ?I   26   ...       10         42                    40         6?.O           40            10         11        0.60
tTRtoPta             41     12:6b      I*       S."           11.1        45   23   10         11         62        110         61         19.3           934           14        4,         0.4i
FMA                  &I     17.4b    6jOb       5.80         20.1b        65   16    I I       40        In         So          36         14.4           is            to        26         -
"Sam                 02       i.4b    411b    S.$            16.9         38   32   26         Slb       I IGX      4 1         44          9.6           46            II        I
S      130      6.019        Z410         13   IS   1 9        50        #4bx       31          SSb         $.O           is           14         2)t          to"
4ALAvt                                  ,Ob     S.,           11.4         IS    t4   Is       21b        62        II          6S          US             Li                     21         0.40
VAUNITtus            a          ob     1        6:)           14 0        46    16      7      Bob        et         72         23         MO            IM             ld        2 2        1.00
mum                  0 I     S.90,    2106      S 6          lf:4         ? I   14    II       376       GS         70          40         16.0            9             1I       1 6        0.40
sevenuis             79   4.6  1,170   119                    22.44    344 134 100   -                   -          -           IS         -              -            -          -         -
laULtA               A 1     4.5       280      I.S          10.5         Sob   46   6b        Sob        22b       lob         296         1.0b          AO            12b       zi         1.00
SUOAN                60     19: "b     180b      3.0                      66   39              32         Sias      66          A           1.4                          6        I
a)          ,    44-06     1,01,
SWAtttASO                    0                               io. I        St   14   1          65b       t I        so          I I        11.0           to           21         t a        I."
tAnutA               so     ts.1       ZW       S.$          j?,j         4 1   1 0    1 6     yqb       966        S 1         4 3        I t.0          lob            3        204        f). 10
LiCAM                00     IZ' 66b   3006    -              16.19        236  3tb  lob    46             $4x       6 1         146        -              I 7            S        13         O.W
zAtu                 et    21.8        Itob     ?I?          26.4         -     -     I o  -s6b           16        2 S         10         21.0           40            I a       28         2.00
lANStA               so      S lb      $66b     j. $0        It.1         48    23   22        4,61'     is         so          40         12.4           1 4           16        22         1. so
ZDGAM                a I      1:1b     loob      5.1          19.5        62    12      6      64b        to        I I         I 9        20.0           as            I 1       2 3        OJO
am  Ani-                                   b
UNIX                 it       1.46     120      6.$V         31.0         43   it       I     iib         tj        10          *6         14.0           10            it        43         1.00Y
SURNIVA              a)      60        2tab    2. IV         21.1         43   24   is         9          16        is          St         24.1           t 6            3        26         0.01
CAPMMN               84     10.0       wo)    3,10           -            11   )s   to        10                    4ib         44         -                           23         26         Ida
C.A.L                96      2. 4b    2wb    3 pt,           24 lo?       40    16   It       -           79        Is          6say       1 8                           a        4          1.4nov,
CNAO                 16      4.4       ISO      2:41PUT      2t:16        -       -       -   I 5         2sy       -                                                    3"
Como                                            4.09"        111141                                                                                       30           -          241        (1'2*y
is   36  to                                          -  -  -   -                    -    -                 Mbv   -                                            3by   )OST
SWAT. GUMA                   o         lyob    2.3             3.4        41   24   ...   206             13        to          to          5.1           60           23
Guam                 17   0.6  3.420   ).?by                  0.42,    -   -   -    -                     -         -           66kw    -                 -            --         I 94v   2. AOeV
GAMU                 I I     0.4       220      1. I"         4.sb        46   230   64    10b           40"        "S          27by       44.70          to           I lb-      I 7        -
GPAXA                16  11.3   400   4.07                   IS.Sb    -   -  -   -                        ?lb"   -              27bi   -                  -            30"   t I             -
autuRA               19      S.3       I"p      4.600        -            254  led  W         20          34        16          )s         MASS,          Is            16        29         ?.PM
twov COAST           83      9. lb     720      ?']          62A          SI   40      9     3307        72         79          31         29.0           0            2222       10         1.40
LtMTA                so       1.9      szo      4.6          19.6         43   21   24        A          $3         11          II         10.0           16           12         10         Z."
PALt                 41      7.0       Igo      4.14         21.16        is   21   1 1       to         20         60          44         13.1           66             1        1 1        1). 90"
14AURMNIA            is       1.6b     )206     LS           16.9         3 3   4 1   IS      lib         1 2       60                     $2.0           30             9        73         0.37
Ntfta                        S 2       )OO      2.8          21.0         40   IS   20        1 4        Zs         to          16        41.0            3 1           6         2 0       O.SO
MM&                  $3    93:66       160b     1.4y         I 6.0        -                   36         wl         TO          14         19.1           4 7          IS         30         2 v
!!IRGAL              84      6.4       3w       5.06         24.0         466  ;S-.  "lo   is            Si         $9          66         16.0           Igo           166       24         2.104
S tnu  Ltoin         II      314       ISO      4.06         16.Ob        -       -       -   tsb        IP         -           3 S        29.0b          84           fix        22         0.607
Tom                  is      2.6       400      6.169        26. sq       "S  aso  Zia    I I             74L       'O          54bip      U.0            Si           12b-       4&b        1. bob?
W      MISCA, mm Wo  94ti".3 2.210              2.1           10.9        439  310  106   9)b             St        $2          11         -              87            is         6        11.00
I&AMM                70      0.2   1,170        S.)          Mt           16    36    It    93b          09         91          24         -              97           is         it        -
IOJ"a                IN      0.2   2.6so        8.31"v       22.16        434  3to  I (A    "b          low         O"          ITY        tq.94          9"           la         JOY       --
iftivu               so  .4   M    4. lot   30. SO    -  -  -   63                                      747    -               m          -              -            tv    -              iz.6030
swu                  79   its.5   1.110         1.8           6.2         St   -      14      to          73"       -           1367        4.jb          61*           I $87     107       I    b
CNILE                 t,    L60:9   11:m        3.2by        13.0b                                      itguy       -           I*bv       -              -            5st"       loby      11 goby
OKMLA                so     alb        ISOb     ).3          IM           35   lo   20        stb         to        16          It          6.6           -            4?         to        10.0167
CN?A ateA            so      2. lb  1.0job    S.4            31.1         Go    ly   $1    "             03         77          33          US            77           40         27        t4.00
CODA                 70      9.6       -        4.0          11.0         -     -    -        "         112b"       S$          tobt       -              IN           ylbxy      Is        I 9.007
owncAm it".    so            LI   1,030         1.11         Mt)          II   it   22    oob            60         it          St          1.2           %                       13        14.00
=1111040             so      6.46  1.110        6.010        My           45   31   16       of         M           -           16         12.6           84           41         16       24.00
4L SWASON            77      4.4       440      3:667        23.1by       66     0   27    6i            42bul      32          it         -              Al           26b"       27bi,      1. "by
OUkTOWA              to   4's  LMO    I 747    13.66    -   -   -   -                                    69bay   -              3Sby   -                  69            t lb"   loy    5409,
GUUSA                16   0.3   630   S.Iby    11.4by   -   -  -   -                                     jqbXy  -               31by   -                  -            Sgb"   -              3.00"
NAIrt                so      S-ob    230        3.49                      65      0     6     236         so        to                                                  40        2 7        0.80
is      3.6                                                                                               A                                        ixy
"calm"                                 5"       3. lby       14.367       634   ISQ  190   60            gobwr      me          41"        '11.6.         680          2          It         $401,
JAPAttA              so      3.1   1.110        6.1          11.7         31   41   to       90                     ON          40          1.3           IS           SI         zz        4.00
mmtco                so     GS.I I'Sm           4.1          11.04        46    "      I I    92          $6        33          114         M             so           n          I 7       106
MICA06M              is        16   106   3 OW               16.06        -    -   -    job              albu   14               lb                                    26ba   30b    -
70      ':Sb  1.6                                                                   tsby
PAMAPA                       I         SW       s swf        21.0y        429  lip   is    "b                       -           lsb?       Ata            $54          sobv       27by     20.4ob?
ftg~                 to      1.0    I'loo       1.4#         0.1          42    I?   to      SA          83         it          2S          1.4t          1`6          is         12         0.16
FM                   40     16.6    1.000       1.6           4k. 3       $3   1 3   I 9    $0           $3         So          it          m                          it         23        14.40
Mylob 4 M.   11              1.1   ),m          ce"           &.Or        48    It   20      91          to         it          10         10.31          49           63         24       -
anomi                76      2.9   1.300        I I           0.4b        -                  96         toibn       -           24kb       -              -            64bit      -         I 1. MST
Vg=tMA               if     14.4    ).440       9:17         :8.9b        -                  82         IQ*bz       -                                     -            is"        17,       21.407



- 35 -
getaLn" aoc*noo ,ou                                                                      Annex 1. 2
Juen 9, 7 t tttPage   2   of   2
00 Eam""=   88101*80          AWL?               SAM   O                NTEwr" M I
c~~~~ m ~       Ot **l rncOtt gz*Uz1Wao  ijW.t   ,wmu                  *oMB   FIlms?         conMM  061         8gRk7o8ctOlto
cte mt               AS  MONr          * ttZM       LMrntt*in       f  FtttntW       ttt  nttASt           an  ttM        S  A    Ifttr  ataft
8ut  POP.  CAPItA           t n ct GOP  AL c  u1    tn1 A Ao  tO, SaYS     *t  U. ICUOL         Stow     tttA?tOb   Pn18t to  t10...   st1ttttS   MOWt
YUt HILLS. (000)   ttl  TO  t09            tmm    73   SC  4it    (t)    RATIO   CT2            no        As mOEtw   8CttMu    IL73I          #8         0atto
(1479) (1979)   109CAT6O0 t     E08t1101          (t)        (i9t7)   (1)         (73     0tt1Clt c0W/CAPtTA         (I)         (t)   r7c8 n         (t)
(1)     ()         O               }            O)           O           }       {}-    (9)            (10)         (I 1)       O}         (O      t
-   1 3.0 o        0lob    t.l        7.1        )0   40   22       t7b       77        *i         is        4.0          63           Is        it       *.80
tttut7.A           Si   150.56    G20       t.l          9.3         0   36    6       32b       9s        61         27        11.0          74          27        26        3.70
3814               Al    39.3b  1,636b    7.7'          20.6        3    3    it                            s 9       4)        IO.           98                    is      it.10
lAIA7t9A           84    15.26  1(.v0o      6.1         16.7         39*  4p   lis    70         975       97         16        Il.S'         69          72        J3        4.00
"VA N..            63      3.0'    M        1.6          19.0       40   17   22        -        60        734        31        1MO           3S          ti3e      27'       1.00
?i8t1L1W           it    4#-Jb    sob    2. SW          14.0        66   39   -        7         6         65         t1        1.1           9s                   36      21.00
$tour=             60      2.t   4,6t0      2.t          6.7        39   40   16       *1        92        93         II         0.8          99          31        22       6.00
t4          MSL.   82      023    640       6. sow      19.06,      4 1   3   20       IJ        78        60         tt        10.3          *0          tO        I0        2."0
tlAtLAO             l2 33    6.06    00ob    3.4        t0.)        s9   14   10       Sob      lOt        Go         21         *.3'         44          66        It       4.00
vtAUMTU            so    o0         - b      .          23.3         01  32     6     I       Is         60         24        11.0          25          20        16        2.00
7W 9MA           60     I.IV         to.1 lay    St   1   20       226       631       -          3)         9.6          -           I6        21        1.61
tStU sO                    1.2       s        .6 0 X     11.0       -       -10        to        is   _         _          _                 _                      --
1816A              77  439.6       210      2.91 t        .9,                          34        Ion                  43        -                         I R      -         S. _0" 
8A4                83    is. b    10ob    1.4                      _                             70                   is        -             -21   _ 3                       1.0 ?_
*411               02   I*.16   3tbb    2.0              7.0        38   30   2'    3I I          0        *1         30         A.#          $36         2 I                  n.00
tUOq   lOi  JS A11I t             AItCA
^04lI@fft-AIt *} 15~~~~_            .5     1 . .7          47   19   Is       12         lbs, b 4            jib  _                     6t  2bv                     1.001
ALOU1A              9    18.3   1n770        3.t4        12.3        344  26'  I1a    )          937       4SO        17         7.0?         lie         29        36        3.7t?
lam                62    43.*    63504    4.6            7.9        Ila  310  26'    46          ?%         0         364        9.8'         9Is*       4.r        9'     17.00
C0*al1             16      9.3   4.140      3.6'        l0.6t        17   26   21      -         97b?      -          39b        6.34         -           79        27?b     17. 0bv
t(A4               79    36.6      -   5     .47        14.1"       -     -     -  5 0          tots       .          34 -                                44         46'     4.90"
ao4                76    12 I    t710       4*           6."t       -    -    -        -_      lov                            _ 38  _  _                 4 3*      29        9 ,30*
tAD                818   )1.4   4.4*0       **7          11sa y      -   -    -        *4       63                   "I 29     -             9IS        A11        14       ll.00
JOtW               aI     ,.b .   .420b    4.9 '       10.2        19   44   14 S      0 l                116*   9   2         IS. I        -           6         3a       8.90
mp                 19  2.3   -    -                     l6.6"r          - -  -   -                 '   -              19    -                 -           ''   -             7- i.s
Wt0COfO            44    21.S       6706    6.9O        22.6        )3   63   19       IS        S74        9         )I        IS.1           _          14       13         *.9of
0@g 43                     1.2b 6.3    ,6o  1.             12.7a    -    -     -       306'      ?)x       63'        3                                   lie0  I   14*
819700A1          7I       ,46  2.040      1.4         23.2        sO   2    II 71              97        20         I'        12.8          op          63t       Ila       .I.O0
81u JA                       22.1   2.100   3.,96r       6.2?       _-  -.  -*          8       1066*      - _        3b       -              tt          84'      t20      10.60t9
SPAIN              79    31.0   4.920       2.17        16.07       -    -    -        - _        a67                 39 2      -. _          -           Olt       -       2_ .taby
sylnA              i8      S.4   1.170      4.68        la.1        3i    3    3 2     18        ,76?      90         356       ._ -          60           iby      21      12.60
115tV1             '       9.6   1.130      7.0 6p      L0 14.0     4           1 S       t 46  t00k       90        139        1.8           10          In*       30       S.00
tUUCY              7 1      1.5  1.230       1.1        16.2        50   22   26       73b      110        77         Sl         6.g         1i           26       I1        6.00
"us  6.6                   S.86  9   3306    7.9?      1.7         80   20  II       Z1'       IS        Z6         S1       27.8          gO            9       to         1.90
106X P.D A.        02      2.0(    436    7.6            6. 1       643  14'   AS    1)          41        1'         23        32.'          46          17        t0       2.3s
S1116987600  13'8.0910OCUNI11E(E1,
"M". eT  Gh^                         M               93       70  6967          a1 t       2        60         9         63            is          91       b6       461
8*989                                     (1.4-          (3.7-  (23.  (0-  (3-    (S-         (12-     (12-        (1t-      (1.4-         (10-        (1-       (8-      (0.01-
10.0)         36.3)   64      6 36)  "3 9)         Il      969)          77)      Al.A)          100)       06)       403      !9.01
Qw*rttl; U0pper:                           5.6           21.d      St   36   22    o*           98        tO         41        In           61          47        26       11.0
V1sign5                        *.0            16.1    *4   28   Ii        53 I       3        61        ]3         1            465          26       22        3.7
19t.6,                         3.0           11.0      3s 8 I   I3        23        60        3S         26        9            40           14       19        1.0
t*1ttle 1 Ov h  at,*(                      1.3             S.4    6.3  ?.5  4.)   20.0        19.0     22.1         .0       t.t          331          16.3S     3.3        3.3
rd" 1                                  *.4           17.0       6  2818          33        74        If         36        19            42          It        23        6.9
st74td  ft9 t,fi%*ot                       1.9            8.7      12   10    7       29        27        26         I1       13             7           23         7       7.6
8t.t41a                                    4.0            16.0     63   2s   it       $3        93        61         )3       1            6I           28       32        3.7
-    OAT10  U0IWAtIASL                                                     A *   1AT01 n8tO1  TO *68  Y                 SS  * 9118t1?tY 0r IOCATtOII (661) 0NLY
..   UltUOC titt; Oa ZCLICtaL                                           S  *AT   MMlb  lltlEt  I tt    MN  MOt  t        t   no  AND SnnI  omlm$gOltft ONLYl
3414  9659300 8gtOW                                                     * *988 CtJ1ttt7        1t"i * teutc.1  E198(?98  081.
wim gmttttwt  Xlttl                                                  *    'm lln   O l    btt                     r V- KIOLiC0  OOt"   ONLY
*    1611.2118 6**?433U  17008098                       1 ~~~~~~~~- 63S V0U20U07  RATIO             I * 1nwLI1 S8*.fl87SM7
P * WtO tES 1l7.0   3*1                        .8ce sct
F- 009
3S0131           C61.oo I **  Is  k8w*d tbak Atlas.o  1wtto9o 4"ctet tt*914 51*9s1.
Clme  3 W t@ 161  l d     tOA lh       . 6_9tor 0(01.9  Oeveam,tt tSomme  t/dior tbo loe  . ttt8 tt0l         tl 11t*r6ob.
C,.tlw     84,CGO.1 , 8*t4 aft  *=t1t to t1e  '*l1oodm, of *6tio, 4,eatteo  #yst*a   6.4 isaust* of t*t,stt   * 0158*t9o  06"1*1o1*9d1t            5o1  betmo' v*rtme
countries.  No"ot. O,  the b*6    at t01  t60**  498. tromoteula*         I c*..,1m re_rt_         69*890*89  w11it6h Stu*f  c*tto1.  O6. stametre to t      ,o cb " *4  a* w8he
600  tollte*ad loamely  by Ink 0(9s0*to  0 t6te0 gow"     t   _s,1*6  t69 7MO049 tn o        .1tA4  t       et11u  tof * 46t  1'.I meSo. mme ..6ttetu    he b 04 SW 9 to stt*h&tte
to1tattt7.  '6.  6itb11  t3tt0tt. tOs 4d   r*,l       6.  Of the sees.  89"9 1t9o1. $*1c  4**e  r,1tll 1tme7e4t 1t so 4            I r9ee*      d  tta t the 181 I rking to
tt? tfu   16r6 e<g"? t1t*  009te        61*0@8 of     OPW*ttloa  mel.  1to 168 we ot 160. data. th e 1otM  , qIre to*8 e               ,*6ttft4tt .4 b. boot 1to 4dt
[IJ .tt*.a' a5 ott4  to616 t1b*le t0W, s all odumttel Uo                   tgst,1a. 6tb to#.9) ta  ae.fo,al.
(2)   'Priar?e  4d91tte      r?96t?  to *t *tts  *at tCb 1tr0t 1ev1l .54 '60coo'*?1, 0491t*d *  r**C   to *all .48tt5     4t: t41 16*0 n4*r0, lee 1     *tdlts oof t"9
(t. 8.*8t*3, 14t* ebnte1, .peotIurolt.
(3)   1 .t*,v tat** (Col. 6) Areo             baie te4     country e' (c05 1.       0.6 *tt  01700toe t1*5an  Otr     .rl n o'1sto. 0"  1t ts 4btt1    t1at 691  9*1te9
4.2l9iti15 of '1t1t1.1' h4 4t.t  te,l2o9d 10tot,1515 7.
(6)   '100611o 90.41tt187 to o.tdtlce   (Celo. A sad S) tr*te    10f1 7it      1,t)l sad r98870t 61  7*5 9*0 49mo9             So 0tee1tto1  by 9ubl61  ..  uQbUe4.9)e
9C8t0 9.
S)      brollUet i*toe' (cte1 . 1. It Rod 14) rotor to oU  bt reet ove  te th1* 9reo4t7 1             of .11ttbt ebt61 t4   r,ntelte tpl-td1o  tn tb1  *067097t1t*   School.
Pblite tsd  )tt 9to er l,l.  14*   91 *ttZ,  6Jel9t to 1     W4u* 947t91at *trer  1o t16  495010l51.  1*7*et       06    19 to C )61tt)0*6e t1   the   1.8r of b6.01
do" (t.o.,  go,Op*lttfc Pop9 latt7 *   sad e40ttel    3).  80e1ll.t tt119 s ot76O9t12? 47* 6gA*  11t ,  t1e .0*0t  Of ettud4ne  *ctually t*o 49Ot.
Wat1*47 4 *1te4*194 me   lbe tlud5C 1to t16        tt7 ft9   sad can inflate the 7 w.



- 36 -                              Annex 2.1
RASHEMITE KfNGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Education and Training Sttem. 1987
Higher Education
Higher Education     4-6 Year
2-3 year      University Progran :
Community      B.A. /B.Sc,Diploma,
Age                       Colleges            Masters                       Grades
General Secondary Education Exam.
18                    Secondary Education (3 yrs apprent.)
17                   Vocational General    Comprehensive  Apprentic
Schools:   Schools:   Schools:        (3 yrs)
Voc.      -Indust.   -Literary  -General        institut.        9-12
Centers     -Commerc.  -Science   -Nursing           and
16*       2 yrs.     -Agricul.              -Postal        on-the-jo
-Postal               -Comercial        (VTC)
15     ____________  -Nursing
Preparatory (3 years)                              6-9
12
Elementary (6 years)                               1-6
6
Kindergarten
4
*Compulsory Schcol'ng - 9 years up to the age of 16.
and VqW*teft
Doe 421tV



- 37 -                               Annex 2.2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollments by Level and Type of Education,
Sex and Administering Authority
(1986/87)
Level and                      Other
of Education         NfE     Government a/   UNRWA         Private         Total
Kiniergarten            -_          582            =          31,245       31,827
Yale                   -          310            --         17,343       17,653
Female                            272            --        13,902        14,174
Primary           403,641         3,544        91,434         43,900      542,519
Male             207,110        2,802        46,522         25,027      281,461
Female          196,531           742        44,912         18,873      261,058
Preparatory        161,710        1,542        44,162          7,329      214,743
Male             85,420         1,340        22,568          3,948      113,276
Female           76,290           202        21,594         3,381       101,467
Secondary General  91,807           841           't-          6.138       98,786
Male             4?1,440          680                        3,844       47,964
Female           48,367           161                        2,294       50,822
Secondary
Vocational         26,164        4,760           527            319       31,770
Male              14,058        4,599           458            213       19,328
Female           12,106           161            69            106       12,442
Community
ColleRes b/                     27,042 c/
Male                           13,283
Female                         13,759
Universities                     26,711 c/
Male                           16,308
Female                         10,403
a/ Ministry of Defense, VTC and MOHE.
b/ Including nursing colleges.
c/ 1985/86 data.



TIl VSIUITE KIt        OF  MO
181.1? OF ACTION MOM   as liP9.E IEtNIA SCINEPIE
GOJEC                           P315D 70) LOSg                                                                                                                                                             -           __       _
OMtJVE               Cl MI          V      fU EFFECTIVENESS           ESR I t1981             no5 It 1199           S11          9                   ES (19t 1 e   r )  VW  1 tim                  E  11 Y99VI 1 EIV 511   4)
A. IWreVI        L   eaher Itioradiag
oan,ity ef  LI  lotro oe jb-          Wi) Onlw  to,ell)        toA)   #se Oa rmilts   IA)  Coeplts prepar&-  (A) tomot* trateaq   Wi Comt ce trulaisg la)  Coseec  trasatsg  (A)  Co t t  traiaags  (A) Cuetcte trst.oia
Edecabtio    related., ashIer as-    fer defasne teachers' d4 tranlsg nods              tioso of pr oads asd    of (Tra70he e)l 170      Of (TrhsK C) ItO         Of  rsah 0) 10           of (ITranche El 10       of (Trearce fl 11t
srwvice traisie  pro-   inhdvideal trailnng       assene   t, defies       tai g matrials for  grors of ari                              poxsi-           s        res- df epprosd-                         s d  aros-
gran for teachers,                                                                gcos  als  mamlet ar eats    5  traiaig cod. a  sts   30 trauls     each sate 1 30 trasss  shte y 30 trausee  sate    traess  ets   3  tresw
priocipalJ, sw   er-  traisfna  seedh  assr-           u       ta      s  is    relat ase    (Juy 1990).                     each (July 1991).        ch Usly 1992.            ach (Jul  1991.         ech (uly  9941.
vale's with sttep        met IItoll-/130117).   of teache   tbe            (Jl  I, I  19.
*AKitNc t attrt                                   VW d              s                               (3) Ceomlets traaloas   WI) Ct.tte evalua-   IS) C elete eval@-   WI C                to e olu-   IS)  C let. evalua-
Incentives a d ^stl-                              doi w9s esisles 1)  Consae modular   of VItrae   A4 IfUd                  tion  ro  sae Ae     *ruh a                       taosa  f Trea. C         taom of Tractase
fitsaced traisua                                  for nah e ep (bps   traitiag  orWas  for   (SqtIer 1901.                  tachWrs (isee 19911.  teachers 'JIos  1992.   teachers (us 19911.  teachrs (Jio   t994.
eptaees.                                          DeK   1  tl   cetpt tn  satti(  rrache t       ItO
thr  l  1, 191).         r s of .bat 30           (CI  kgam stsluatioe   IC) hlens  tratlisa        4)  leviet   traiate    mCg ls  tesai            ICI   es  trami
) C ta- l     b e n     dof irech  a teacers        dules as appropriate  rahles n  w        tro tres  mo s as aproprate  smdules     apwrorte
tO) of                   gtity areas  riely    (ttoeWr 1990).             bas   o Trucks A         bse      trasch          bast on Trt"ce C          aod go Isrsec    D
taos  am   r iett D    r,,,1.                                             evaltatits rrults        evalaten relatts         evalatin resltIts        evalutmo  rtlts
priorite      cats-                               l)  logis offerg         (Joe thros  Saet.        tJ  throph Sept.    fig" thrau     Sept.          hm  throegSt.
WADS 1(4prl 11.    tC)  Defane saate    separate sa lar pro-   1991).                              1t711.                   1993).                   1994).
esiular prorass ts      grs  dfsd in (Cl
(CI  Oqgit Prerataen   ririt  are  fer            s tear  Ib (u           tDI talete treactp  WI  Couple trate       tatng   I  Cwlettt trasasi  1I  Cmplete trasinpg
of pr ra  a"d  ro   tecIrs              vis   J     19901.                of dtrace D eos gr          troin   C gprows      df treacle a gro usw      of Treace I groaps
dteetprcare   tral:g   a     rtlal        d                                t50pt 191.               Sept.1 )..132).                                  (Sept.  99f)l.
astorials for trati-    art      dth tralings
ia moduls (Deg,          istat&tmos  ttntver-                              (El    tsa evatatntiom    tE)   ias evaleatitea  (tE   DQeas evao tios   (E) kgi evatsatioI
Peril 193).            sitir, cossaity                                    of TreKch  I tachrs   of Trdach C tecKes    of treact  C teachers  CA Treae t tothers                  ,
tollege. JIM. ett.)                              (Octobe  19911.          (octooe  19921.          (Otobe  3993).           (DrIobe  399411.
Weaf4r. these pro-
&rs  atdrtie  sa                                 (Ft tCOtiasu  oferiwqg  IF)  Catetsw offerieg  (F)  Cties  ofDttmrog  IF)  Ctotis  olferaog
macaerageseif-ftlm   trd sparat:   l                                   r  -  tswepaate atiorla pro-    parate  olar Drrpro-   stwtt to        l, D
rt   icetl   01rgr itt doiswiftril   gros  in njw>rsitin   lr                                               Uto wrivwsMhto, gr am  eto  tCrvUts
Seo       rei cO#mity colleges and  cnttp colle   &   cemty ctilte  as  rc_ ity tollt_eg    a
r    Wit Z OR Osother  ageas.                                       Dther  paecites          other  so nis.           othw  seisI.
arageesby
ilcteber 1919)
U     Alleviate the     oi  antotcett            ON  to cortasseb S         E to ta leset           Iupietatas             Sm                       Sm                       Sam
ulal O1afcits            that ano secoshere       tdvetis  se              se  pods itela  trait-
clog of aesy recruat-  twebhr oill he be    reqirost for                   lag r iaret for
od sKt asy srstool       h r 1990191 or late st udAr  sthel                seoeoy schwol
tehes.                      dmic yr sWls         teahr t r*rts-            tteaes (effitttu
AS     has at tesnt      imiat.                  Iff 1990191 Kadsic
12 credit hw's, or                               yar).
eeisalet, of re
niled pde  _ t   v
Straia r llll} 
t Ialsaug (a.eouece by
Segtuehsw 1918).



PRIOR la LOC
OBJEtIIUE           cUIIUIHT              EFFECTIIVEUS            VWS  I 0981S            YEAR I I (1909)        YEAR III 119901          YEAR IV (1911           TimS v 1199            YENR VI i1993          TEA  Vil 11994)
2.1) Increasiag Avail-
ability of lestruc-
tional materials and
tratisig tbatos tn
their use.
2.1  Systeoatsii  and    PreWae bidding dots-  IAl Start systoentic  1A) Cuntimue iaple-   IA) Coptic"uos nle-   MA  Complete iuple-   Continue process o4    COntinue  rOKess Of    Costig, pocess Of
wipin  the profuc-       tse    for prucrmut  Process of adeuthcla-  netation of Eel ouship cetatios of fellon-   antattmn  of Eel on    identification ano             tdeitifiatimi and      idsntafication and
tlionprncare.nt        and lists of aedlo-      etn   dPr areizn    pogras.                    ship prwogra            ship prograo (f0ISltW). peatinopno-              rprainfpot-pprtIun Gof po
and distribution of     visual uquipsut for    of pratuty:m  of curr-tsfcriuu-tiso  criuu-                                                                                                    tpso  urclm
audihovisulad h$S.rlDrr                         05lO5-016   5COd  Oct O (   Distribute pro    M8  Cuntinew eruces  ofil  Continue process  KesdsIenc  equip-  oa    stnunc aqot -related ucitact oqip-
to schools.       bikort of C.triculn    e7uapaet and adilo-    cured equipment to       identification aid prot- of ideut3ficatiok aud   cat and andic-vissal  cmot and auipvids"11     ant and audio-visua
nod Educational Tech-   v sual aids itatrch St, schools ICoitvd by   parttioo of prOtotpe   prprtioo of proto    aids, and diKscss             & t suS, adi aics       aids, id d1iMScs
eulogy and for         191).                    arch 3I, 19511.        of cviuw-eae            ye   fcurrntulus-   nubh SEPR  ites             with UEPK  Ito"s        with SEUMO  ates
schools so agreed nuth                               s~~~~~~~Ktcic  squlpeet cud  reae   c sec   qip-   ubit nay he suitable  idiich nay he wiltabli  okich cay to osutablt
Oank fto) 37.           8   Strengthen the      0C  Contine proces   audio-visua  aiskanmd aunt and audio-visua    for large scale             for lare scale          for larp scale
19971.                  coapbl' ty of the      of ldestlflcatl mn    ad isca  ssith IPk        aids,  ddiscuss         Production,             produtiron.             prodKctioa.
Oescr., Directorate    espaatios of proto-   ites woiuch may be        aith IEF ll itees
of Curriculum and       1,M  of cerric we    suitable for large        okick na" to suitable
Educatioeal Technloln    related scIen* eqs    scale production.       for fogescale
to Identify turriculsa  ant "a sadil"T                                 PTintuaI
end fdscat:osl Tech-  aids, awd disnus
Belowy to idestify      with KMU  itls"
tnrrcsluo-rlnled        which any he suitable
teacbiog/leoalaln aids, for Iarp scale pro-
and to  aproart prao-  duction.
grn 31yS, ltl
IC) PrKore ageed
list of eqeipoet
Isard cuetracts by
2.2   School            Procure end distribute  Procur and distribute  PrKoe wan  dietribate  Pracare and distribute  Procure and distribute
libraries schus.        library books to NM     library books to ME    library hooks to HOK    library baoks to NM    library bunks in NM
schools shth library    scheols suib ltbrarY    schools with library   school with library    schools with librarV
room  in actordane     rowsIn  ac cordAnc,      oo rne  -i a    -odac  roo Inaccordance,    ros in accordance
wit 2tai        W d th idilmlo      m umodsulktq pi     del,s W        e itb ILk.              suWa   idb guidelins" agred
with Bak.              sitk go rt.             pit godell   agee         ith   udolices  greed awit
2.3   Introduce,        Coopote experiment    Coaplte eupeisei         PrKor ead distrute`11  PrKor  oad distribute  Procure and distribute
atperimnutaly, a        cent In couple schools  and asses  resuts       tibrary bans to UK    library books to Hil   library books to UK
tust  bo  opnst         in 09187.               by S7IU1 infore Sank. schools with library    Keos sitk library    schools with library
schece.                                         Decide on action for   rgom  is accordance    roses in aCCOrdanc       roos tn accordance
,nt      wdlise  agree   with  idalleess agree   with gsieliees agree
Go



mjtcisw            CUIIE U              EFPECT1WXlf1SS         VW    I                 ti)  O  11 tin99           III  1i"O          W  IV 11 199           1  9 419921           16 VI t131            no v       ")
24   Establish Pilot  (A) Smral Biroc-    (A) Procure qruu           (A) IOitribste         Establish eselatimn    (a) Contioge  u-   (m  Cuatis a ovum-   la) ctisw ovol-   (A) Contade   ov-
Teacher Rsrce         torate of Curriculu     hist o stqupot           dgt to TRCS          process and carry      tien proce  for pilot t:s' proes fr pilot tim pruco  for pilot tim pr    far pilot
Cwter ('tCs)           a"d Edecatlot tack-  (Awd contracts by        1 2/                   oMt initial  vuds-      Ms nO madify/tta    tug ad sdify/opad  Ws ifd coid1# veS sad  ICsit/dml
au, in coll-       0U30/U).                                      taon ef oporatis Of   pogra    a cti  -         ogr  and activ-    r           d atin-    1r-m    1   t
bvfa on nith rn-                              IBI Start .wgtien    pilot Tau aod if   tiz accordigly.              fis accerdily.         tis  wccordisgly.      tist accordigly.
itave District Edo-  (3) Rehabilitate         of tICs (0U21/19.    prograa/ttiatitius
Maion  ffkies, to      buIdings fir Mis                              accurdiO11l is cm-     (SI troWeplutas far
select uitable buit-   in      l ACCOSBK  with  (Cnlspinet foe- siltation with lak           pamism   of T3C nt-
diq! fer pilot ?KlCS      Id        co        ship prras for Ti    (30901. *ork is accirdance
in zunb   rand    petvt "^    ne).            Ilprc (07-M).                                 With pilot TIC evalu-
Ir1i  I                    ?        .         N                                             tiu(on l r0Jb9.  q
nd      "ronabi-   tC) CinAKt trainina   ID) Coml   training
litatir plans for      pr       fr    pt  pr          " fr   ipent
bailtia"  109I3371).  seintenae persuhs   so uce int   stnnel
of Disticet  caticn    409flk41.
tot Prawn bidding   Sirswates  lgie
domts fw  prce  030e).
mt of list    WPr
mutas urMsdib
B.  Imroing  3D Sctnel toatruc-
hality        tim
ad cost  CMNtstiftl  of So       (At  Site        S eletaOn  (Al  As3 cup-lr   A) CostructIon3        (A )trtA                       strtct          (A) Cstrctim:          (At   Cos ttion:
Eff tda- crnplsy-te'l            cupletud (06t/80).     timt by 0516.           3/ (011/3). twie          lts b 3 C of P  t a    plett  ef Phase  compefte    1 oc               t  d0 OF
Cy of     schools.               Aguisitim 1yI .                               20eId                   1. eli    a tl         I b1 1291g. Coplete      ae 1       92 be 113S It 92. co-
khol                                                    to) ConstriUctto       10 Of totW l cosru-                                                                         po1I)h  1t02 of tota                                o
Faclli-                          to) hon s   blc         ompeto  of bid        tlio by) 12/P.         21oPas  129.Ttlcole IS112. oal                                       constructio  adsr
ties                             ties AM  =arioet dcmt 06/8&.(29)   oa co-   ti   fcsrci                                                             upeimof coo-          Phas I ad phas
of co    tts (12/, U dlt ad  wait-    (tl   uRnitue at               lotiof                 lannt-  dt ol   y 121.    s   itt    au   9   it by 03l19.
Ittf on           s     I  of bids            Iltd        iert          IOIabI ot    1by b2/92.
(or/ liliay    (Oti).    _1gm1 Xr
iC)                                                                                 Eoztrutti   tt) ftture   t7/llSlt ipX eztm   andtwo  lt r   _t
idsigns      .         of coSntrats (l U)                              lc bid toneis(toibte
evaluation ad contract elpunt  Pocue-   tim  Phta  It tot
(C) Constrwet          Ml Peratur   d(                         sin met of Ion by            receviog goft to
sreulificat:oso    Eege:   rpr of                fcotas            0391dlstrihduti        coepltioa of cml-
=utraor 12/B7          I ta   pes             C/92                    hs I fkm  rKeiV-   stuc tioo.
Evalsetinr of Cm-     iEU4-ods3toStoo
traKtor (1/ 5.         oprn   0-03)                                    !1 f con
final lists ad te-                            trsclo.
il0^12tf)egti~ ~~~itrctao
afltcgliflco foc
IA



PeteE to LOU
1ECl?if             C      t              EFEECtlWUES             Stf3  I 1IS11           YEN1t 11969)           VW   III 1190)           VW  it (1991)            Et1R1 V OM             VW  V11    Y       l    3V   VII 1)194
40 Strwthmir th
ea"tetmac  preplan.                             1iA   bOSKt & l&c    3M   erl,tia od            IA) Start  up)anota-  IA) haess  pw-            he   oelmts
corltat to stdy    aiattact *o stud  taes of the scool                  f eoaK of the subM I  of the itplmotatuo
am  am.  the   r-    prparatur    f a c rn    utmae plan w-   omits and I  Enaite-   of th                 u eos
fereo   nd         - SAc d ft-    pln pin to    wedm        la) il      waset-op ad             mut           an a"
iumu of scto            iWrea $factivwe a         w  t (061699.         etablish  chiS         plan fute arti
huildil oiterna-ce    of the prKcaw  (09186).                           for rutar wpriodic   arce nlv.
liKcluda, te 13                                (3)  Cantinu  and corn  asesuset; plan
ouistioegohile "its)  (8) litttt SC colka-    plat, the tt   il  saits  futue actio  acwKr-
tt to drim  p w 0th VIC hogatian, iuplant    staff tramwo rg proran  dily.
collaheb tarN sPcial  SR  Of th  tdainian    tOUO).
in-ervice trattong     progas tO1019S).                                tB) Caatte acplen-
trra  fr tohicel                                                        tatto  of the cowp-
staff (ZVI.                                          It~~~~~~~~~~~~~ootsiv aaiitoanc#
(3) Cateract atentno
1ith c5it1tact
(121?it.
4.   Iupravins7  Si.) hpad Traioti
trUtrtt4        fot r  Ss6irlr
aboer      Ceanert " a forcer     FIlaluso  plas for    01  awre cusatruc-   (tA) Complete cm- bSD.lute local                      Sae# o   the vacre      Go W Ial acttic 
aret    sKeondry qo atl            astanti  of btidin   tiorn contract             struction Proprao        nstructor training     of the actd  co         required.
Listtbn   sctoo  to actom-         ndoprw   biddia        (t015JI36.              hy 051t.                paps (06190).           weraskoatooutars n                                                                                 4
date an IKrncaa         dscum g.rocess and dram can-
shr  of fanle                                   IOt Finale "MP          (3)  hRceime and tn-                            tknia s for future
stdes it a  u-                                  rnst lItt ad prepare  stall uqipot by                                   pan   in thin rmPct
timtl pgron to                                  hiUdin  decKNtS ata   I6W").                                            112191)
sV  an a pilot                                   reont Kcedule.
fr siallar effarts                               ets 0tt hn             (C) Strt local train-
to s otr lrat                                   (0/3011                 ta program  for its-
secondary sc   Is                                                       structors of arias-
uceErP clrocure          attin Ad hraty
tl Prean agrood    cultue Iurt tim
list Of  ouput.         I day wr  no
tractrd i      by        startq ,  06101139).
01910)131.
18)  Istrode  Now
(s)  tolptemt  rdos- propa   to et tae
sh ip m       S ser- sol (099).
vtzn.   Instructors)
accrda  to *Jah e
strttee troitog
Wood is 09M. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~         ~        ~        ~
co



OWIECllfllES        tYB                   iFCIII ISS              913I  ll ti EA  ll            t f1909)         VW  III (19991           TEN  I                  11V    9 11992)   IW          I V1I93)         119 l viI 11Y94t;
6W INrUINIce Pilot
Vocational Fro-
ma in Office
ame.
6.1  tatroecK GOs 1a1) FiaaItsz  equp-   tA) %C0, Vs    as-    1o) Losplete loca                                        Coatmau  "nommot        Start systatic           atinag the   o          0ttO     the proa
Btilt Kate  pregrs                               Mt listod prpare   stall omapmt by             "part warnca  pro-   at ptial adjust-           drogro   assems tl    anestladju sUt  ast*gmotf4d  amant
wet 11"124ft-"Itted                            biddies tnC ts          0UYI/s.                 Ira IW901.              met of tht propa.   adjutmt process             rots.                  proems.
t   iter splitatims                             ad p-ectSrot                                                                                    Oa the "to of tte
to  SW  tral ul                                 scbo.                  (el 3 IBI.q  t tellC -  tot tt as-                                      tramat proras of
Wgid&rl  Ks tIIS tX                             nth lant lOi34111.         oovwn According  wat of the rvsults                                  dr  tniouen on
gshls  t boys                                                           to  hstWe lgrouP of   of tf* prograe                                    future epts ono
sehoosl.  19) FKroer  W 4 3nstructors          lOU9l) fo  gra-                                 412/92).
last of eqvioset,       O1t-06 , satts         d*ates Ir  tbait
Cattact aard by        grwp of 4 istrtf- rKttsd  xtrtftIon
09/01i/1.               tors @1-12/39).        in tti 30 ra    NW
sak  necessry aljst-
tt)  Renate aesttru-  IC) Procte local         eot.
tors for fellaonsip,    e t  rvicsn for I
ad besa E^ltsh          year starting O6U89.
t"9lpw  tfaittOt   tl-
gra (start ratOts61,   (O    tt  f0 t  cotw
tId 11t13/189).         Vtter prWao to 11 
tt sebwls M09M).
6.2  Introduce                                 U4) finalize qaip-   (A) Rective aid            fo secsl KctiOn          (A) Start Systowtic  IA) Lontaiw  the           14) tEontin  the        IA)  Eoaatanoe the
stlled earer-ltevl                             ent list ad Prepw    install QIpmnt by   requred.                        aostmt of the          proqraa asessot/        prop.. aasetsscnt/    prograo aasenast/
uspotur iciatwcte                               bidding "outs ad   @6/30/39.                                           reslto of the ard- &jutomtnt racess.            admsteot prcets.        admtevtt process.
prgr  in 2  ndn-                                 Klrornut ecidasle.                                                     gras for graitts
trial Msco*dbry Kcooels.                         An aith 9ank           tt)  Coalete foreign                            cto he rceied
I 134tal.              fhtloZp gsroe.                                  full tIrtrKction in
KCWderi oto tschoe                               tr a1nd 12 sad
tB) Procrere Wo Ood1             te3eJ a. das Ilind   Wes to
tist of eqapot.                  .                                                     prt  an
Cuetrat  wrd by        tC)  latrodte coo"tar
0/01M.                 uiAtmOasc  prOguAB to
the 2 iiOt KcolB
IC) Resinate iastruc-  109/19)
tors for Iellomnbi
4) sad imaplot    .l1
l _tM        tratniot t-
-ri t -WO). Statrt
tor,trF folo  ip ppro-
OQ :
OD.



PRIR to Lo
oSJtilY E      t     ECIE1I                 EFFECtTIENESS            VW   I ilSU)             YER It (1919            10 11  ((0)               1E*  IV (M91)    t4M  V I1992)                   tKa VI 1)tl31           VW6 vIIW 419)
7D0 Not Cmityt
selv  casuity            (A) Iforoattn df  ither (a)  Cctistation of    IA) Caotin. tork cc    (A) Ctsh.t. cork on                                    IA) Cahe.t. ark          Ul) Ctntion cok (r) Cwotin  cork
Colleq  ptrer   by       Coemtte  104/01/Bt        orwkte iscurreltul   c     the tnttroda tiom,    the ietroduct,ow,                                 au rwised vasions        on rtens   vwesios      on revisd vorswss
deispa  csrrccla    uc pregras  colttees  cittm   (till 10/0(/W.evaetio  and                        evalution aed                                     of deihvry systm         of tlivr ty systm       of  eltvsy sstm
ane  study plins and     10710/I?t, ae tecb-                               revision of ealtr-       revihosn of mater-                               lIti) and of project).  (till end 0   prof ectl.  (tall ced 0* proett).
cmmaty colleg             iucl coeitten  bteor- (81  Plannng the pro-  salt  ed toathieg            itle ad  ttachigi
ni .rs) (07/115/7U  paratibn for ad aitro- pUn.Io
hJCarr carotclmt *"lop- drstte of idelivy                                r/0  1   )1)II                                    s te  haks aJ  of        revind cuem eahcs,   revised nes ctims ad
Mtt.                     systse  (start           II)  Start   ok am the                            II) Catiu.e  rt ok o    namaters aed tnts  and tests.                     tnts.
I1311/8).               fotroutist  of the        (10  Coasti   cork an   ANtm haks cad as          (till "UtSI/)  ccc-
18)  Start ef ctrrico-                           Ne  delivery system      the introductios of    ncainat,es and Vnts. tice werk os revisd                                     IC) Ftial rWcrt,
lag cacaittee crk       (It  Start preparatio   (9/419).                   tht ee  delitery                                ne tatims asd tests.                               tecludice evaluatin
tabout 0S/l0(t/);       of etrialS  a   teach-                            syste                                                                                               rlMtts 112/4.
reorts to proee                  taiutd, evaleati
comitteet fros           and revis  i accorwdi( IDC  tostrectien of
OMtl5tt).                to pla (12101/CII.                                item bets ad of
anaiatioes sod tests
(C) Iabttett of          101  Foreratti  of pe-                            (start 01//901).
ford,. eart in           or" tcoittes (07l1t5/U
carritmla deemlop-       aedt ehOiCal tcoattM
met (a  seas em          (0731/SI     for etsea-
ssei.le after            tite
(I) .Kreitmt Of
foq IEIw lltote
faragnstertac 
valteats l07t/881.
(F)  Six Wrns   abroad
ar fslluah$s far 12
mtb e (09111.
SI t Sort at ta4gotic
ieblptom  eur l     sa
dmlepmt of nFsam
tens Itill 122/S1.
leclude  the show l in Sub-torare 3 Stix).
100
C.I
00 



PUIID to LOU
sDEClitE           ct sEl                 EFFECTIVENESS           11W  I l5 11)           YEA  it tim)           UEf  III IIYYQ           TEAR IV (19) 9t1EW V 1921                       fEt VI 1MP            YEWt  ViIl 1)9941
D. 5tiottgtrz- 8M11011E   _ t""o
ass,t       Empaiot the             Prepare  qpstpet        Procarejepm     t       Costume iolomata-    IA) Coeotht* lploeA- IA) ct               ippeti- IA) P$roed  s             m.                    Se.
fbaa,.      COrPtu-bosod ttS        'procnomnt dKou-   1 i     I           I        tiem of ftl ousips      tattoo of folloushlp    tattimof fetImlesap    indicated witb aglo-
met  ad   varionus Drctorattes    mte WM2117).                                      etcwdist to p1an.       aOrdiql to p1at.        Ocewdiftg te Nla d    loot of rstfta ane
blaty                                                                                                                               ttetetoth   riter the devlp
o                                                                                                           (SI  ltredtic adds-   by Joe   17WI.              et of prograb
met oi                                                                                                      tita  progres anl                               thrus  mAl
EltaIt-                                                                                                     proesse  as reuired.  fIi eSrO the Pro-  ansum t.
tiom                                                                                                                                ,rmt   d deKide m
utu* ip"msice aed/
or mdiiicatlees.
9D balItty sumwe-
mtd ad Evl-
eatiml  kbfrg
91  Iotredoc  no        4A) Prewpre ttaSf       (A) Prparetamo of    [A) tecrott additth-  1*1 IReruit aUito.-  1a) Cmotuew recrtit-  IA) CoUtieo  trainsig  IA) Cohow  traisiop  1I  Comtiw etra3g
ctmrtKt standaiud  rdcute_t plan td    detailed piso for               ad staff for Eseae-  dI staff for Easa-  apt ad treiemns of   of staff So E hnao-   of staff in  afetmu-   of staff is Esaw-
schoastic ad etetr   tie scietdle fwr the  sorb dreri  roas             tieM  Diretor&ate       time  Directewate       staff for Erniae-       hies Dirtorate          tim, Directorate       time Diretoate
tests to mitrs am       DirKtnreti of           I-VII  tay I.            tctcardia to Ili.      accding to pe.          tm    irctorat as   actierang to plan.          ctordig to pin.         acordot  to pla.
tomatr sttot            EsleeiatiUs ad                                                                                  ia Yer  It.
cthitotet.              Evaloataio sad folo-  IB) Rtcruit aatimak            do  potsr-   IBI lse ospert sore-                                 (B) PrtKe seoi           to)I hroduebo sa.       (U) pr7ci   eeral
up (Dteador IW3.    staff to diro'twatps   ices dotria  thren           kes dories 3 mths    ID) Pr.         a t teat  oeM sut tests Mi  se  ubet tets tt  eans tfbect tss aid
9.2   Sot o oewratiom                           acordirn to plan.       moths in eac  oF the  si  xeoaistlsD rlhc-  tno an U*set tests  an  i*tfffttl   test  m                         t tt s   lSt&rattmal tott-
ochanisa lfr  catsuat-  ID) Start omeiatim                              too birtoraten.         torat*.                 as at least mNe         ad it  bts fr          andi itn bon J#         a   Itol bnSks for
o  educotimal prol-  of cadidatn for           tC) Cmrtrect stprt                                                      *atterotimal test      othr tests ad aPp   t  her tts a           py   othr tass ad  Wtpl           -
ot,s, progr  ed         felooships ad PlN       arcus  lUoth a).   IC) Cotisuw  isi-    IC) Ceatic  tolsg-    m  prodoo n         atm baets prewiously  se  tets  prefimely sed tests   pro sy used teats
processes.              for trausiag 1l2/171.                           metatiet of  letlou-   mtatie  of  ilou         for other teats         ae  Eufaoat3oue    agati  tEiatuims            if   ffraitims;I
10on s w tt gwet s     shipg ergrai is Rt hi proa atccrd-    tlsaistbMs  irtrc-    Diroctoratt).                      IHrgctorato).            l r toater  .
icn darial cst maths tne  irgctort s            s  to olia to          toratol.
in Dorectora tefor      accerditn  to Pa.M      Esasattlio Direrctorate.                       lCe  Cary out at d       C   CU tr   t St       lt)  Cary oet at
Esaoiaatmes, three                                                      M) Carry Mut too        lea    e  ajor         lt  t to soar           least too sojor
mhs to Diretorate  111) Prodc   sd sodap    ID) tocad   apply   er   auahos                     evaluatis   stutdies   ovaatim ostdies         evolation etuti;
for Evalsatim oad       tws stamdardsaed tats  too stsdtrdited tets  stuis lhvatlattm           lvesatosatim SW        iEvalsatim  am           ytualOtit  ad
follou-up.              in stbhotics aod       ti Enolish Impe          WA  ol                 Foell"   Dtrtt      l   ln-l Directoatte). Fallow*  Directorate).
produeIt ite  ban           produCe itea bAts  Directoratel.
It)  Start sd tuatttv   i ftlilh Itt ati-    for ether sIubJKts
Wnlluship prtorm       tien Diretorate).    IlEtsaetimts Dtrt-
accfrlodi   to p1in is                         toratel.
tie tue Hrli ac ttrt.   IE) Cary out tub
eajer evauatip          tEI Cary at tue
IF) Euip offices       studies lEvalsatim      lowr emvastim
tccrdin  to plus.        d feollee-u            studies IEavataltt
Directorate).           ad fall"-ep
16I Prewpe Ite                                 Diretoate).
bas iso tuo grame
in Iithnttsics
Ihstaoiatiat Diret-
torate).
2'1
_4



PRIOR TO LOW
oh!ttWlV            CI ENtt                EFFEEIIVEUESS           YEAR I (88)              YEAR 11 (1989)         Yff0  I I  19191          f01  IV (M9)           YEN V (29                YEW VI t4119931        Y     vil 19941
Nil) tosgt.,sou.
tml projSttt 5010-
tatches caplil-
tie..                   Prprt  bidding           to) 0   cerr t  tipot. 1A) Complete folls-   Castule" projet              tM.                     SM.                     S5.                     SM.
dectamets Iw  pre-      butd cggtract by         ship op   hr by         imploototios.
cutrentt of twit        4ril 1e"11.              OK    r  1999.
M"t (tcuw r X             1ui 
19e7).                  1at bops li1soso-
tatiw  if fd ioo
ghp pres (67 We
f orobip aid 36 aef
Iuopop traisddgl It
acctreiKo sith areud
scle    starting oth
taigea    traietlr  in
Jawt   193.
lltnt
1) A tUntatiHW  hit Of rented scolS to bt
rolctad  ea  s atscls to Q  ett pblic4
KtidPi  ta tuet  f fOW    Otbttt ti  ""rt 
aid ans  proevd to prinKiPle 411/0).
S) CIM  StrKctor   two of attenodatioss
b  schod l ar   pyilIt, uhsr rtios h     hos
dites d A orONd  acpa it it p4             to  the
awi shuds (113.
IC) Cl1 troCtitOs Of KcoolS  ohhitt t otd iKcIuded in
the listd  est ceply with the aboo-o lsot
0.



- 46 -                                                   Amex 3.2
JORDAN                                            Page              6
Seventh Education Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Suonary of Technical Assistance
A. Foreign Specialists, Overseas Training
Progras   Title                      Sub-Program           Title                   Specialists        Fellowships         Study Tours        Language Trng.
No.      e/n       No.       nJu      NO.       e/n       No.      oM
A.    laproving quality of
education                      1.0l             Teacher upgrading          0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0
2.0             Instructional
saterials              0         0        28       84         0         0       28        84
Sub-total                  0        0        28        84        0         0        28       84
D.    Improving school quality
and cost-efticiency          3.01             School construction        0 0           0              0         0        0         0         0
4.01             haintenance                0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0
Sub-total                  O        0         0         0        0         0         0        0
C.    laproving training/labour        5.0             Expanding training
market linkage                                  for girls                0         0         7       63         0        0         7        21
6.0             Otftica technology
and computer
maintenance             0         0        12       84         0         0       12        36
7.01             Adapting comunity
college program         2        62        12      144         0         0       12        36
Sub-total                 2        62        31      291         0         0       31        93
D.    Planning, manajenent,          8.01             HOE managesent
quality measureoent                             information systes
evaluation                                                               0         0       19        34         1        1        19        57
q,0             Strengthening exao
and testing system       2       18        16       22         2         2       16        48
10.01            Strengthtening Projects
Directorate             0         0        12       29         0         0       12        36
Sub-total            2        18       47        85         3        3        47       141
Grand Total                4       80       106      460         3         3       106      316
Note:  HSub-programs include local training and specialist services:  see Part B Technical Assistance Annex 3.2, Pages 2-4.



Hk ASHEMITE VIUOCH OF JORDAN
SEVEONT EDUCATioN PROJECT
STAFF 4PPRAISAL REPORT
Technical ASsistIOce lwsleeotatiowf Scheoule
A. Foreign2 Specialists. Overseas traixting
P'r g'o                                                     -- --- -- -- ----- -- -- -E -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- --                                                                          ----- ----- -- -- -- --- ---- -- --OT--- --  -   -- -  70T N T-FN W -
Sob-Progra.    TOR                                 Doratiof           98     198         9             1989    19          90I"           191               1992             1993             1994              l95      Sg'sts F sbiu0 S.Toars  FLT
Noabev   Ref. ft.           DescrAption         No. S'RS    FT   I LS    F                      I          LS 1 5    F  T    L.  S   f T L S ; ILF    I                         LS TI    $   FL15    FT .   FT    L.   (Si    IF)        III    ILI
A      INPROINGWS   UlIT  G  EDUCATION
1.0     teacher UIpgradir,91
2.0     Iftgtruct3onal Naterialsl
-.1   Audo-Visual Aids$
FellowshipsI
2.1.1    Audio-visual Aids                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
Supervisory Trainifi9      6    3                                           90                                                                                                                              1a        0    0      -a
2.1.?    Educational TV awd
Radio Production           6    3                          o60                                                                                                                                               to       0    0 
2.1.;    Educational TV
Studio Wansageamnt         1    3                                                            30                                                                                                              3        0    0
2.1.4   Ahieation TechnaQues          2    3                         3                 3                                                                                                                        0       6        0    0
2.2   LlbfarieS SCheflet
2.3 Teitboats Sche.e
2.4   teacher 6esource Centrest
Fellowships
2.4.1    RAdia-cisnal Aids
DIivisim Heads Training  9    "3                                                                               9                 9                                                                          27        0    0
2.4.2      Teacher Center Mtanage.   3    3                                            9                                                                                                                        0       9        0    0
2.4.3     Teacher Centter P'lanning  1    3                                            3                                                                                                                        0       3        8    0
fITA     Fellow. Language Trn9.  28    3                                     9                30               27                 9                9                                                           0       0        0   84



THE OMASEITE kIMUO  OF 21310
SEVEITH EMOJCTION PRAOJECT
STAFF AF9MSK. REPORT
Teckuacal Assistauce lapluantation kchedule
A. FOreipO SPecWaiStf OveSeas Iraisuog9
Proga                                                   ---------------------------  ------  ----  - ---                        ku ------CA E  YW   --.---- ---------------                                         TT.50I            U
Sub4fogyas    TOR                                Ouratim          1967            19                S 19%           1991"oI"                         192              1993            1994             199      Spiste Fabips S.Tuvs  F13
bedur   Ref. IL.          Desription         No.SISi        F I L Pt    1   Ff I 1SF    T                 L   st r     I.  SF          i.7  S      F    T       Sf      T    L   F       T   L1SF    T   L    IS)    (F)       (T)    (I)
I      IWUVIN6 SCOUR  URATY AN  C0S1 EFFICIENIS
3.0     ScholOC  Construction
4.  NiliteuatKee
C   109MBN IRAININBILMBOl NANUT  IIMBAS
V.      EvpwIdiq Tratiting for Sirisi                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
Velliouhips                                                                                                                                                                                                                O
3.1.1    Oursiag Supevisor Trog.  3    9                                          to1                                                                                                                  0      27        0    0 
3.1.2    Oreseakiog Supervisors   2    9                                          12                                                                                                                   0      to        0    0
3.1.3    hauticla. Supevisors    2    9                                           12                                                                                                                   0      is8       0    0
6.0     Office Technology sed Compter Naantteance
6.1 Susiness Related Computer Applicatioast
Fulloutslvp
6.1.1    Ceapoter-tased Office
lstwchmlo                 9    b                                        43                                                                                                                   0      45       0   0
6.2   Computer IlaMtso.sie lrazoasg
Fellowships
6.2.1    omputer Nhmctenanc         4    9                        12              24                                                                                                                   0      36        0    0
7.0     Adaptiag Iomuity Colep  Propastt
Specialists
7.1.1    Cwarmtuluugssiga           1   24   6                                                                                                                                                        24       0        0    0
7.1.2    hmasureuit & Evaluation  1   38                      6               12               12                S                                                                                    38       0        0    0
fe)lousbips
7. 1.    testing A Evaluation      12   12                        le              72               54                                                                                                  0     144         
FLTC     Felli.. Lang      Iraqe1 .   31    3            21               30               42                                                                                                          0        0       0 9
0%



lE I"HITE 11k68  OF 308
SEWETK EDATION PIJECT
STAFF   PISkI REPORT
leCheICl Assistance Implmentation SChdule
A. foreign Specialists. Overseas Training
ProOr                                                    -------- - -------CALE56AP  YE------ - --------------------- ti. STWFNUT--
Sub-Program    TOR                            Dkratian         1987            1988            1989            1m               91             299             IM              IM              1s99     Sp'sts F'sip S.Toan  FLt
Omber   bt.fh. D. ucriptii                  No. SIN S   F   tI L   S    F   I   L   S  '   I  L   S          1f    L    S   F    7   L  S   F   TI L   S  F       L        S     F   T  L    S   F   I L    IS)    IFI    JT)   IL)
D.   Ftm, N6IT    WibLlv
ME4 TR 1 DIID EVILUATTIOU
e.0    "a Nl ama_    t lote. System
Fellossbips
8.1.1    Aplicatio  Systes         3    6                                       6                                                                                                              0      le       0    0
1.1.2    ProgrMmi  Trailg         16    1                       4               4               4               4                                                                              0      16       0    0
Stdy ttar
1.1.3    Comter Applications       I   I                            I                                                                                                                          0       0       1   0
9.0    Strengtheig Eas S lsting Systems
9.1  lntroduce standardn2ed testsl
Specialists
9.1.1    EutKatiotal testiog       1  12                    6               3               3                                                                                                 12       0       0    0
Felloksbips
9.1.2   Testi   and Evaluation 14                               2               2               2               2               2               2               2                              0      14       0  0
9.2   Evaluation of Ed. ProjectSt
Specialist
9.2.1    Evaltetium Specialist     1   6                    3               3                                                                                                                  &       c       0    0
Fellooships
V.2.2    Evalutiir                 2    4                       4               4                                                                                                              0       8       0    0
Study Tur
9.2.3   Evaluation and Follow-p  2    1                             1                               1                                                                                          0       0       2   0
10.0   Strengthming Projects DirectorateF
fPl lousips
10.1.l   TA Proessing # Image.   1    2                          1                               1                                                                                              0       2       0   0
Basb  & Donwr Operations   I   I                       I                                                                                                                              0       1       0 
SWpYl A N* terials an.  2    3                         6                                                                                                                              0       t       00 
evolvig Fbds              2   2                        4                                                                                                                              0       4       0  0
atstty Surveyin           2   2                                        4                                                                                                              0       4       0   0
Project Plaing            2                                            6                                                                                                              0       6          O .e 2j
Project Haneont           2    3                                       6                                                                                                              0       6       0   
FLTO Lraeuage 7rng.      47 3                                 $9              42              21              21               6               6               6                      0       0       0  141
__ __  ____         --- - -------------  -_-_-- ---------                                                                                                                                                                            O 3
MIMES:  i. Sub-progras mrked t he local training u specified tn Part 3 1Ans 3.2 pg   521.
2. Fellouhip (EnglasSi Language  tF) will be job-related atmor for stpfic purposes, ad is to he   rtaken locally.
It is calculated at the rate of three staftmoths of part-tise study (up to 20 hours per seek) per fellmokip, but the total provision
sbould be allocated according to need.  See TOls for language traning on Project file.  TWre is no la ae  training for stwdy tours.
File$ 21?



- 50 -                           Annex 3.2
Page 5 of 6
ILsiiE4ITE KINGDOM OF JO
Seventh Education Proiect
Summary of Technical Assistance
Part B: 'Local Specialties
A.  Improving Quality of Education
1.0 Teacher Upgrading         1.1  About 29,000 compulsory-level
teachers (200 hour part-time
course) and up to 7,000
secondary level teachers (196
hour part-time course).
2.0  Instructional Materials  2.1  4 audio-visual aid technicians
to be trained by VTC on 4 month
full-time courses.
B. Improving Quality and Relevance
3.0 School Construction
4A0 Maintenance               4.1 School maintenance policy and
planning study.
4.2  80 m/m of training by
Vocational Training Corporation
of staff of mobile maintenane
units.
C.  Improving Training and Labour Market Linkage
5.0 Expanding Training        5.1  200 hour part-time local
program for Girls             courses to train instructors in
dressmaking and beauty culture.
6.0 Office Technology and    6.1  Local consultant for 1 year
Computer Training             (from Sept. 1989) to assist
introduction of program.
7.0 Adapting Community        7.1 Local consultants/specialists
College Programs              for working groups to review
curricula and examinations.
7.2 Local training by foreign
specialists of local teachers
in test design and
construction.



- 51 -                           Annex 3.2
Page 6 of 6
D. Planning, Management, Quality Measurement and Evaluation
8.0  MOE Management           8.1  On-the-Job training of MOE
Information System            staff for extension of MIS
system.



- 52 -                              Annex 3.3
Page I of 4
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
School Construction Program: School Capacities, Types and Site Locations
Location            Education                                 Cycle
Group I             Directorate      Brollment  Sex       Prime  Prep    Bites
1. Khilda           Amman I          1200         p               +
2. Tsbarbor          a    a          1200         n         +     +
3 Al-ManarsLa                .       .1200        p         +     +       AeR .
4, South lashii      a   a           1200         N         +     _       Acq
5. gaifeh            a               1200         1         +
6. A-Jofah           a               1200         1     .         _
7Iskan Asir          a   .            720         p               +
8. North Narka       a   a           1200         p               +        Acq
9souvaileh           a    a          1200                   +  
10.Al-Kousoor        a    a          1200         1         +     -        Acq
11.Narth Nusha            a          1200         r         +              Acq
........_                               -. 
Group UI
1. Wadl Al-eer    AuaRD II           1200         It              4        _
2. Rat Nassl         a    -          1200        a 3                       Aeq
3. a     a                           1200 .       1                        Acq
4. u Abhara          a    a           960         1         +     e        Acq
5. Buth U                 a           960Q        1                        Acq
Sw.ak.
6. South &MifiLah    a    a          1200           *             +        Acq.



- 53 -
Annx 3.3
Page 2 of 4
Location                    3ducation                                   Cycle
Group II                    Directorate          Enrollment  Sex  Prime    Prep : Sites
7. Ua Tom&                  Aamen II               1200      p      o            Acq
8. Al-Dsbaibah              .                      1200      1            +      Acq
9. Hay Mukbhra islamiah    a       a               1200      1     +      +      Acq
10. Al- lahalih             a      a               1200      1        *  +       Aeq
11 Abdoon                                          960       1                    - +
12. N  ySaifih              Balqa                  1200     n      +      o      Aq
Group III
1. Al-Datrawee              1Arka                 1200 .                         Acq
2.   W -Ai4aoos                                    1200     1?                   Aeq
3. Al- fthaira              .                      1200     1 It                 Acq
4. Avajan Al-Shaki.                                1 200     1     4      +      Acq
5.    y -Al-INsha         a1200                           n             4      -
6. BayAl- buna        a                            1200      1    *
7. jamne                                           1200            +      o 
8. Al- HasWhiea                                    1200      1     4.            Aoq
9. Zara                                            1 1200   IN      +     *
10. Eq Al- Oharbi           MR'adaba               1200      1                   _
11.  aW A1-4uaali                                 1200        ' _
12.  ay Al-Aeant                                  1 1200     1    +             Aeq
^~~~ -    _                                             -     _



- 54 -
Annex 3.3
Page 3 of 4
Location                    Education                               Cycle  I
Group IV                    Directorate  Erolluent   _e:   Prime    Prep   Sites
I Vasat Al-Delad            Irbid I      1200         P      +        _
2. Nay Al- Janoobi
A1- rbi                                1200         P     +        + 
3.aniza                           a      1200    ,           +        +_
. Al-DB-rha                 n     a      1200          P     +
5. Qay8hyialt  harki             a      1200         P               *
6.Sal                       a             960          P              +      Acq
7. DitrasB s                      a       960         1      4        +       _
S. Bay Al-Janoobi Al-       a            1200         P      +               Acq
Oarbbi.
Group j
~~~~ -   -  
1. Z4ei$a                   Irbid II     1200         N      +        +     Acq
2. Asmal                    a     a      1200         1      +                cq
3.-ayb                      a .960                    p      +   _     _
#. lay Abu-!aas             bh           1200         n          +      
5. SW Al-Deumida            n            1200         1     4        4      -
6. Uskbxa                   AJloum       1200         1      +      .        kcq
7. Jerah                    Joraes        960         1      +               Acq
8. B" Al- Oulaimat          fafraq       1200         1      +        +      A
9. Al- Padeen                            1200         1               4      _



-   -5                     Annex 3.3
Page 4 of 4
Location                  Education                               Cycli
Group II                  Directorate  Enrollment   Sex   Pr,.,    Prep   Sites
1. Al- Nadeena               Karak        960           p     +                 -
2. Al- Nasar                 -            960           F     +        +      _
3. Ayy                       =            720          tI    +         +      Acq
4. Rwaiu                     Tatelah      360          M      +        +
5. Shallalih                 Aqaba        1200         F      +        +      Acq
6. Al- Remal                 Aqaba        960          M      +        +      Acq.



- 56 -                             Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Costs and Areas Per Student Place
1.       Academic Unit Area Per Student.  The teaching accommodation includes
classrooms with a capacity of 40 students per unit, library, multipurpose hall
and specialized units for a general science laboratory, an art room and pre-
vocational workshop each with a capacity of 40 students and net unit area per
student as indicated in Table A below.
Table A: ACADEMIC UNIT AREA
Academic Net Unit
Accommodation Units             Capacity Per Unit           Area Per Student
(m2)
1.  Classrooms                           40                        1.20
2.  General Science Laboratory           40                        2.25
3.  Art Room                             40                        2.25
4.  Vocational Education Workshop        40                        2.25
5. Library                               40                        2.00
6.  Multipurpose                     Variable a/                    --
a/ Variable with size of school. The net area of the multipurpose hall is
180m2 for schools with a capacity of enrollment of 720 students up to
1,200 students and 120m2 for schools with enrollment capacity below 720
students.
2.       Unit Area Per Student Place.  The unit area in square meters per
student place varies with the size of school and its related capacity. It
varies from 2.77m2 per student place for the large model with 1,200 student
capacity, to 4.86m2 for the smallest model with 360 student capacity. Table B
below indicates the type of each school model with respect to capacity and
sex, the area in square meters of each model and the unit area per student
place.



-57 -                             Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 2
Table B: UNIT AREA PER STUDENT PLACE
Number of                    Total Student Place      Area Per       Unit Area
Schools      Capacity         Male      Female        School       Per Student
(m2)
1              360           360                     1,463            4.06
1              720            720         --         2,451            3.40
1              720            --         720         2,386            3.14
1              960           960          --         2,892            3.00
9              960            --       8,640         2,892            3.00
12            1,200        14,400          -          3,322            2.77
33            1,200            -       39,600         3,443            2.78
a          .. ~--                 &L2Q           __iQ            ZJ ia'
a/ Weighted average for project institutions.
3.       Unit Area and Cost Comparison. Table C shows unit area and cost
comparison for new project institutions, net of contingency allowances and
professional fees.
Table C: AREA AND COSTS PER STUDENT PLACE
Cost Per Student Place (US$)
Gross Area      Site
(m2)        Develop.  Building   Furnit.  Equip.  Total
Project
Institutions          2.84 a/      116         769        77      92    1,055
Bank median (81-83)
for comparable
facilities b/         3.30          108        975        92      95    1,270
a/ See Annex __, Table B.
b/ Weighted figures are derived from Bank median values for FY81-83 projects
for primary institutions and FY81-83 projects for secondary general using
751 and 251 of Bank median values for primary and secondary general,
respectively.



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATON
ImplementatIon Schedule
(Civil Works)
AC MUS                  X                  e    07           7   a*          u   59           O9              90                    9              n1  _                           94 
I silts_IiLLJlU0X!00U
2 sde s5'ectmon
3 SiB ACqur~Ol                            -m  7 =
4 Sie legObOn                 -
a 14CJau1M,*N OF CONSAR IANIS
lAtA C*- lS*M
5 AovettGoMenet
6 Pfqh#fcoBOn,
s S.DrW. u (S u*acf%V
10 oei.gn Evewe4omeni 
I t 8.d(aI cumer$1
t2 A.3ewt*Mr,ef..
13 fPreQwC**COhr'
14 tvoiulotIOf
ty COF&SRACSI(N PtASI~ I&e
IS bid Aav..ee.1$e.j                                                                BB
i I Con*act Awdrd                                                                        C
is Sa .n>     Os coX tacti                                                            -     C
w Corgiuctsor. *%Ole                                                                       m I                                 
I1 (.uc.11AUChon PflKAe                                                                       a.   s   e   asam   eesaesea*saea
I 1.4 Phose IL.iii55                                                                                                                      jm iiiui8    8
o0  1.t. I.~ I



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
MlNISTRY OF EDUCATION
Implemenation Schedule
(Fumiture Equipment And Technical Assistance)
_86        19r6        17           9          1969         990         99          9993                   1994
I FURtUwE & EQfM*N
t Pse4wnmon Lou an se*c_oto
2  ao* review n OapP9oid                                                         gm
4 Advhtlentandt GM bKdk*Q
S Subm    and opetng Of bd                                                               13
6 Evciteon 0o bds, andO  coociwwd'
7 sigwn9 o connCtsand opwnog of kIer
Of ctoott 
R Receg of goob                                                                                    S 
9 odxont of goods                                                                                      _
o TECHN)CAL ASSiSIANCa                                                 -                                                                              -
'Wofid *-nk Re*vi*
Wow Ban*-34200 2 ^
I..



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
The New Administrative Chart of the Ministry of Education
r------  -I-
As~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I -T! 3   XEI
0.
l   }d  hl  =  t}  i  J-m   [  <<  XP1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N



- 61 -
Annex 3.6
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN                    Page 2 of 2
SEVEW    EDUCATTON PPOJECT
General Directorate of Prolects and School Buildings
(1987)
GENERAL OIRlClOR Or
P20JECIS & SC"
pRoJcc,s
"IKEIS                     TECHnICAL                         SCHO  ITE$C
ODAINGSO                     DIV.wR IC DIV.   1" 
ACCOUNT                              IV
.#~ ~ DV
-SSIUDlf5,  ItC,.tX               k HSING
CNICV CLERK          DIV,.



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION ORGANIZATION CHART
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ck   OW r o
&~ ~                                of Co09  ESu Ged
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fnt                                                  sko" 
as" Agan   A"d 5         d Cn    |             Gr~~~~~~SCoknhO  Riabao              wEdu. D_.
.                                       _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
r   _  |          _        l                  l                 _   . ,. .           l       _~~~~~~~~~~Aob  kmtt
2  ,00  1 . , a | | L r L r E~~~Ovm"                                A0ch
<    R   Ten0"     | 1     &9>n       1  !   9*tb^   r  I OKh &  OWbk"    r  I    *ft" V 
d~~~~~~~~"u"                         fqvMc            a hJV & sm s
a   I g    "^  I  I          I  [  ~~~~~~~~~~ L  I                  L  I S"A-~~~~~~Uu-Up 
5  |  n  |  5 tTtt | |  r ! r I a r~~~~~~~~~SKfW
f   I   f  }  X  1  1 9 | F | a p~~~~~~~~~~~so io
.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k% Ad
r T ] | QsOoua L I Deo L Gukow"
n Z I r | r I aT~~~CG&Xtn r
I  1  1- L I - L~~~~~~Acs 



- 63-                              Annex 3.8
Page 1 of 2
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents aad Data Available in Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies Relating to Education
1.   MOE:  Educational Statistics, 1986/87.
2.   Studies to be conducted under MOHE Five-Year Plan (1986-90).
3.   Linking Training and Employment:  A Case Study of Training Systems in
Jordan, USAID.
4.   Summary of Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development
(1986-90): Ministry of Planning (MOP).
5. The Role of the Private Sector in Development in Jordan (MOP).
6.   Engineering Industry in Jordan.
7.   Five-Year Plan for the Higher Education Sector (1986-90), MOHE.
8.   Teachers in Jordan in the Year 2000, MOHE, March 1985.
9.   Reducing the Cost of Education:  Directorate of Planning and
Educational Research, MOE, April 1985.
10. Guidelines for Curricula of Compulsory Education, Department of
Curricula and Educational Aids, MOE, 1985.
B.   Working Papers
1.   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance (Education Sector
Investment Loan); Foreign Specialists, Overseas Training, Local
Specialists, Studies, and Training.
2.   Costs and Savings Analysis of School Construction Plan.
3.   Education Sector Investment Project:  School Construction.
4.   Special Study on Compulsory Education.
5.   Costs Savings in School Construction through Revised Accommodation
Rooms and Design Standard.
6.   Improving Education Quality by Increasing Availability and Use of
Instructional Materials.



- 64 -                            Annex 3.8
Page 2 of 2
7.    Calculation of Savings from Increased Re-Use of Compulsory Level
Textbooks under Deposit Practice.
8.    Teaching Upgrading:  A Scheme to Enhance Education Quality and
Provide Participation Incentives with Cost Recovery Features.
9.    Safe-Guarding Education Quality through Improved Systems for
Measurement and Evaluation.
10.    Staffweeks for Planning and Analytical Studies by MOHE.
C.   Data
1. Voluntary Tuition Fees; Regulations, December 1986.
2. Yarmouk University Budget, 1986.
3. Financial Cost of Ed%ication in Yarmouk University, 1984/85.
4. Jordan University Student Guide (1985), Tuition Fees.
5. Provisional Law No. 20 of 1979--additional fees for Jordan and
Yarmouk Universities.
6. MOE Budget, 1984/85. Detailed Financial Statements (MOE).
7.   Jordanian Universities, Customs Duties Revenue and Earmarked Taxes.
8. Teaching Schedules, Compulsory Schools (Grades 1-9).
9.   Secondary Curriculum Plans (1984/85).



- 65 -                               Annex 3.9
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursement Profile
Regional
IBRD Fiscal                Disbursements                This          Average in
Year and          Semester         Cumulative         Project          Education
Semester          -       (US$Million) -------        ----------(%)      __________
1988
lst                  0.00              0.00             0.0                0
2nd                   2.00 a/          2.00             5.0                1
1989
lst                  0.50              2.50             6.3                6
2nd                   2.50             5.00            12.5               14
1990
lst                  4.00              9.00            22.5               25
2nd                  4.50             13.50            33.8               37
1991
1st                  5.50             19.00            47.5               50
2nd                  5.00             24.00            60.0               62
1992
1st                  5.00             29.00            72.5               73
2nd                  3.50             32.50            81.3               82
1993
1st                  3.00             35.50            88.8               90
2nd                  2.50             38.00            93.3               95
1994
1st                  1.50             39.50            98.8               99
2nd                  0.50             40.00           100.0              100
a/  Payment into a Special Account.



NOTES



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20618
386'                                    38'
LEBANON
SYRIAN
ARAB                                      IRAO
REPUBLIC
32        "  '""L  ar\
IRBI   Ramtha 
30  ~~~~~~~~~~~10                  A0
i ~~~Aijoun  
b2"e'OFi.'o FW.2 Q Ma raq                  \B
s;,>    :    J~erash                           Ri        
-32'                         A,,< 3                                                                     '
.  g     a    t     A tMli,MgAAN3 
AD  ~        AMA
~~~~~~A Madaba                            /JORDAN
0       *         ~                B        K AMMAN ETERS 000DU8ATIO1
t9" J \ ~~~~~PiROJECT
9                                      \                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Schoaols,
\  e K DRAK                   \               1200:             T 6,
\ ISRAEL                                                              i KARAK / X 960. I   I
MILES 0     20\40        360
l   {                                            \        o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Towns
(  MA'AN                     P         o gaplXarra38
uvne      UL 1ries
\   I           o~~~~~~~MA'AN                                            a 2  Uatinl
30'~~~~~~~~~~~ >  $erorles                                                             30t-
ARAB    \                                                        SAUDI
REP.       /                                               ARABIA
EGYPT           qaaJ'                                                                            e ,
/                       ~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS O  20  40  60  80 tO     --_h0
r                Iq  '1                A-' I  e6O d
MILES O     20    40    60                _   C,7
JULY 1987



