Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2890 JO
                    (Seventh Education Project)
                              between
                    HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated February 10, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2890 JO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1988, between HASHEMITE KINGDOM
OF JORDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the  Borrower  intends  to   obtain  from  the  European
Economic Community a  grant  in  the  amount  of  two million five
hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000)  to  assist in financing the
Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in   the   General  Conditions  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
     (b)  "MOHE" means the  Ministry  of  Higher  Education of the
Borrower; and
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in various  currencies equivalent to forty million
dollars ($40,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open  and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account  in  a bank,
acceptable to the Bank,  on  terms  and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and  payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The  Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1994
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Borrower  of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
Page  3
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MOE and MOHE with due  diligence  and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial, technical, educational and administra-
tive practices, and shall provide,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
Page  4
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
       (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records and
              accounts reflecting such expenditures;
      (ii)    retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
              records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such  records  and accounts are included
              in the annual audit referred  to in paragraph (b) of
              this Section and that the  report of such audit con-
              tains a  separate  opinion  by  said  auditors as to
              whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted
              during such fiscal  year,  together  with the proce-
              dures and internal controls  involved in their prep-
              aration, can be relied  upon  to support the related
              withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  cause  MOE to ensure that
designs for construction  of  compulsory  level schools conform to
space, area, class size, structure and teacher standards agreed to
by the Bank and MOE.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Planning  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Planning
          P.O. Box 555
          Amman, Jordan
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               MINISTRY OF PLANNING            21319 JO
               Amman
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
Page  5
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                   By /s/ Mohamad Kamal
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ A. Stoutjesdijk
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                27,000,000      41%
     under Part A (1)
     and A (2) of
     the Project
(2)  Furniture under             2,600,000      45%
     Part A (1) and
     A (2) of the
     Project
(3)  Equipment and               8,300,000      100% of foreign
     materials under                            expenditures,
     Part B (1),                                100% of local
     B (2) and B (3)                            expenditures
     of the Project                             (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 90%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(4)  Unallocated                 2,100,000
                                __________
Page  6
          TOTAL                40,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of  the Project are to assist the Borrower's
ongoing efforts to improve  the  quality of educational facilities
and instruction, to  expand  the  supply  and use of instructional
materials, to adapt  vocational  education  to meet changing labor
needs and to continue the institutional development of MOE.
     The Project  consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  School  Construction,   Rehabilitation,   Extensions  and
         Maintenance
     1.  Construction. Construction,  equipping  and furnishing of
         approximately 58 compulsory level schools.
     2.  Rehabilitation.  Rehabilitation  of   and  extensions  to
         existing schools.
     3.  Maintenance. Conducting a  study  of  the school building
         maintenance system, and strengthening the school building
         maintenance system.
Part B:  Training, Resources and Management
     1.  Training.
         Assist in further development of:
         (a)  skills-oriented,  in-service  training  courses  for
              teachers and staff; and
         (b)  vocational  training  programs  for business-related
              computer  applications,   for  computer  maintenance
              skills, and for women's vocational education.
     2.  Resource Centers and Materials.
         (a)  Establishment of a pilot  teacher resource center in
              each of Amman, Kerak and Irbid; and
         (b)  provision, supply and use  of instructional aids and
              materials for compulsory level schools.
     3.  Management Systems.
         Strengthening of MOE management systems through:
         (a)  expansion   of    the    computer-based   management
              information system for directorates in the MOE;
Page  7
         (b)  strengthening of  MOE's  capability  to  monitor and
              manage project implementation; and
         (c)  strengthening of  MOE's  capabilities for evaluation
              of scholastic  achievement  and educational programs
              and processes.
     4.  Higher Education.
         Assisting MOHE:
         (a)  to continue its review  and development of community
              college curricula; and
         (b)  to further develop courses, materials and evaluation
              methods for community colleges.
                           *     *     *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
     beginning September 1, 1992
     through   September 1, 2004                 1,540,000
On March 1, 2005                                 1,500,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                           .18
     before maturity
More than three years but                           .35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                             .65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          .88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years                                 1.00
Page  8
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured in Jordan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local competitive bidding:
     (a)  Contracts for works under  Parts  A  (1)  and (2) of the
Project up to an aggregate amount  not to exceed the equivalent of
$900,000 may  be  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
     (b)  Contracts for furniture under Parts A (1) and (2) of the
Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$600,000 may  be  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
     (c)  Contracts for equipment and materials under Parts B (1),
(2) and (3) of  the  Project,  up  to  an  aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $100,000  may  be awarded on the basis of
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Local Shopping:
     Contracts for items or  groups  of  items  under Parts B (1),
(2) and  (3)  of  the  Project  estimated  to  cost  less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $1,100,000 may be awarded on the basis
of comparison of  price  quotations  solicited  from  a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000  or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
Page  9
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms  of  reference  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall: (a) complete  and provide to the Bank for
its review and comments,  by  September  1988, the study of school
building maintenance system to be  undertaken  under Part A (3) of
the Project,  and  (b)  discuss  with  the  Bank  the findings and
recommendations of such study  with  a  view to preparing measures
to be undertaken by  the  Borrower  by  July 1989, to improve such
system.
2.   By September 1990,  the  Borrower  shall  cause MOE to ensure
that incentives are  adequate  to  attract  the required number of
secondary teachers.
3.   In order  to  improve  the  efficiency  of  MOE's teacher in-
service training, the Borrower  shall  take all action required to
ensure that  approximately  5,000  teachers  are  enrolled in such
programs by January 1990, and  that enrollment thereafter shall be
at levels adequate to meet MOE's training targets.
4.   The Borrower shall: (a)  provide  to  the Bank for its review
and comments,  by  September  1990,  and  annually  thereafter, an
evaluation of each Teacher  Resource  Center  to be established in
Amman, Kerak and  Irbid  under  Part  B  (2)  of  the Project; and
(b) review with the Bank, by September 1991, the measures proposed
for extension of such  Centers  to  the  remaining 19 districts of
MOE.
5.   The Borrower shall provide  to  the  Bank  for its review and
comments, by December 1991,  an  evaluation of the pilot business-
related  computer  applications  and  computer  maintenance skills
programs  and  the  pilot  vocational  programs  for  women  to be
undertaken under Part B (1) of the Project.
6.   The Borrower shall provide  to  the  Bank  for its review and
comments, by December 1991, MOHE's evaluation of community college
curricula, materials and evaluation methods to be undertaken under
Part B (4) of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  10
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account under the respec-
tive  eligible  Categories,  and   in  the  respective  equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
           (i)   the Bank shall  have  determined that all further
                 withdrawals  should  be   made  by  the  Borrower
                 directly from the Loan Account in accordance with
                 the  provisions  of  Article  V  of  the  General
                 Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of
                 this Agreement; or
          (ii)   the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Loan
                 allocated to  the  eligible  Categories minus the
                 amount  of  any  outstanding  special  commitment
                 entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
                 of the  General  Conditions  with  respect to the
                 Project, shall  be  equal  to  the  equivalent of
                 twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  11
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
