Document of                  F1LE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2542-BI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
FORESTRY PROJECT
May 9, 1979
This document bas a restricted distrIuon and may be usd by recipients oniy In the perfonrance of
taelr oficial duties. Its contents my not otherwise be discloe without World fank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -    Burundi Francs (FBu)
US$1.00            -    FBu 90
FBu 1              -    US$0.011
ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE      -    Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
(National Bank for Economic Development)
EEC       -    European Economic Community
FAC       -    Fonds d' aide et de cooperation (France) (French Aid and
Cooperation)
FAO       -    United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
FED
(or EDF)  -    Fonds Europeen de Developpement (European Development Fund)
ISABU     -    Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi (Burundi
Institute of Agronomy)
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Burundi.
Amount:                US$4.3 million (IDA); and US$1.2 million (EEC Special
Action Credit).
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms (for both credits).
Project
Description:
(i) Purpose: To assist the Government in initiating the first
stage of a long-term program to develop basic forestry
services and plantations supplying fuel wood, building
poles and timber and to further the Government's objectives
of increasing forest production and establishing long-term
production and marketing policies.
(ii)  Components:  a) establishment of rural nurseries in 30 communes;
b) establishment of a 2,000 ha Eucalyptus plantation and a
5,000 ha Pine plantation; c) technical assistance for project
management and training of local staff for forestry services
and d) studies on energy needs and applied trials in particular
to improve charcoal production.
(iii) Benefits: increased supply of fuel wood, building poles and
charcoal to the population; an increase in employment opportu-
nities through the creation of about 400 permanent jobs and
employment of about 3,000 persons to meet unskilled labor
requirements for project implementation.
(iv)  Risks:  The project does not face any unusual risks.  Manage-
ment difficulties, recruitment problems and slow delivery of
materials and equipment may delay project implementation.
However, these delays would not significantly reduce the
economic rate of return of the project. The principal risk
relates to the rural nursery component, because of the uncer-
tainty about the willingness of farmers to pay for seedlings
and to develop woodlots for their own fuel needs. The project
provides for regular consultation on this matter between Burundi
and the Association to seek solutions when problems occur.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Estimated Cost:
(US$'000)
Local           Foreign         Total
Rural Nurseries                         293             108            401
Eucalyptus Plantation                   535             288            823
Pine Plantation                       1,099             673          1,772
Project Management
and Administration                    222             120            342
Technical Assistance                    131           1,179          1,310
Training                                 55             500            555
Studies and Trials                      260             221            481
Total                                 2,595           3,089          5,684
Contingency Allowances
Physical                              338             382            720
Price                              1,138            1,284          2,422
Total Contingencies                   1,476           1,666          3,142
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
(net of taxes)                     4,071           42755           8,826
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign        Total         %
----------------US$ million--------------
Government                 0.77             -           0.77         9
F.A.C. (France)            0.19          1.67           1.86        21
U.N.D.P.                   0.07          0.63           0.70         8
E.E.C. (Special
Action Account)           0.78          0.42           1.20        13
IDA                        2.26          2.04           4.30        49
Total Project Cost       4.07          4.76           8.83       100
Estimated
Disbursement:
--------------US$ thousand----------------
IDA Fiscal Year        80      81        82      83       84       85
IDA
Annual               60   1,140    1,260   1,000    600         300
Cumulative           60   1,200    2,400   3,400  4,000   4,300
EEC
Annual               50      200       550     400       -        -
Cumulative           50      250       800   1,200       -        -
Rate of Return:       About 20 percent (on about 80% of total project cost).
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 2376-BU dated May 8, 1979.
Map:                 IBRD 13869



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED
CREDITS TO THE REPUBLIC OF BIJRUNDI
FOR A FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
Credits to the Republic of Burundi for the equivalent of USS5.5 nillion on
standard IDA terms to help finance a forestry project. One Credit of US$4.3
million equivalent would be made from IDA resources; a second Credit of about
US$1.2 million equivalent would be made from the EEC Special Action Account
administered by the Association in accordance with the terms of the Agreement
of May 2, 1978, between the Association and the European Economic Community.
The French Republic and the UNDP will provide a grant of about US$1.86 mil-
lion and US$0.7 million equivalent, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        The last economic memorandum on Burundi (1838-BU) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 25, 1978. tJpdated country data are pro-
vided in Annex I.
3.        With an average GNP per capita of about US$130, Burundi is one of
the poorest countries in the world and is designated as "least developed" by
the United Nations. Of a population of about four million, only 121,000 are
wage earners; the remainder depends mainly on subsistence agriculture. The
Government is facing several critical problems in its efforts to develop the
economy: the capability to prepare and manage programs and projects is weak;
the agricultural labor force is largely untrained; and population growth
keeps straining Burundi's productive resources, particularly in agriculture.
Despite the recent adoption of a policy of "spaced births", the problem of
population pressure cannot be solved in the immediate future; therefore,
a major effort must be made to increase agricultural productivity. Agri-
cultural yields have been declining, because more and more marginal land has
been brought under cultivation. The search for more arable land has caused
large-scale deforestation, resulting in a severe lack of firewood in the
rural areas and forcing the development of alternative energy sources.
4.        Improvements to the internal transport system will be of limited
effect unless reliable external links can be established. Shipments of
imports and exports through the principal outlet via Tanzania have tradi-
tionally encountered frequent delays and losses because of theft. However,
some action is being taken to improve the situation. For example, several
donors (Canada, Belgium and the European Development Fund) are considering
financing the rehabilitation of railway and port infrastructure in Tanzania.
The link via Rwanda and Uganda to the former East African Railways and the
port of Mombasa (Kenya) is becoming increasingly attractive with the con-
tinuing improvement in national highways between Bujumbura and Mombasa.
1/   This part is identical to that of the President's Report regarding the
Second Technical Assistance Project (P-2532-BU).



- 2 -
Recent hostilities in Uganda have illustrated the vulnerability of Burundi's
external transport lines, as imports of heavy bulk goods (gasoline, construc-
tion materials, etc.) and equipment came to a standstill, affecting prices,
production, trade and development work.
5.        Recent Economic Developments.  Over the period 1970-77, Burundi's
GDP grew at a rate of only 2.2 percent per annum in real terms (about the
same as population) and per capita income stagnated. Growth was concentrated
mainly in the capital city, particularly in manufacturing and construction
activity. Food crop production grew significantly slower than did population,
averaging an increase of 1.3 percent annually, while the production of export
crops (including coffee) fluctuated around a declining trend.
6.        The overall investment rate of the economy rose considerably in
1977, when it accounted for 11.0 percent of GDP, but it is still below the
average for low-income countries. The allocation of investment between
production and infrastructure, one-third and two-thirds, respectively, has
not changed noticeably in recent years. The bulk of investment in the rural
areas has been to a large extent financed by official external aid and has
been allocated mostly to export crops. In 1977, the public sector accounted
for about 90 percent of gross fixed capital formation. This has been accom-
plished largely by government investment in social and transport infrastruc-
ture and by the activities of public corporations. Investment by private
enterprises has been relatively weak, reflecting in part the excess capacity
prevailing in certain industries and the limited financial and managerial
capabilities of most private firms.
7.        Burundi's coffee production has become increasingly important for
its foreign exchange earnings: the share of coffee in total exports rose
from 79 percent in 1965 to 88 percent in 1977-78. Owing mainly to the sharp
increases in the world coffee price and a large crop in 1976-1977, average
prices for Burundi's exports more than doubled in 1976 and again in 1977. For
the first time since 1970, the current account balance registered a surplus,
amounting to US$16.9 million in 1977. By the end of 1977, Burundi had accumu-
lated about US$86 million in net foreign reserves, equivalent to 11 months
of imports. The improvement in the terms of trade resulted in income gains
equivalent to an increase of about one-fourth of GDP over 1975. Including
these gains, gross national savings, which averaged only 5.4 percent of GDP
in 1970-75 and were below the level for most developing countries, increased
to 11 percent and 16 percent of GDP in 1976 and 1977, respectively. The
increases in income have accrued primarily to the Government through higher
export taxes; the rest was shared by the small coffee producers. Producer
prices were increased two-and-a-half-fold from 1975 to 1977, but the export
tax on coffee more than quadrupled in 1976 and was raised by another 300
percent in June 1977. This resulted in an increase in tax revenues from
coffee exports from a level of BuF 154 million (4.4 percent of total current
revenue in 1975) to an unprecedented BuF 1,250 million in 1976 and BuF 3,500
million (43 percent of current revenue) in 1977.
8.        The increase in Government revenues allowed substantial increases
in current and investment expenditures. During 1976-77, ordinary budgetary



- 3 -
expenditures shot up by about 58 percent to BuF 5.1 billion, owing to signif-
icant increases in the basic salary scale, the effects of a 14 percent devalu-
ation which took place in May 1976, and the establishment of new ministries.
The salary increases were the first since the mid-sixties, although in real
terms, the average salary has increased very little, if any, since that period.
Revenues allocated to ministries which provide economic and social services,
which had declined in real terms up to 1975, were increased by 57 percent in
1976-77. Nevertheless, budgeted amounts for agriculture in 1977 were still
low and constituted only 3.8 percent of the ordinary budget. Although in 1976
only half of the investment budget was spent, investment expenditures were
three times higher than in 1975. In 1977, Government investment doubled to
about BuF 2 billion. In spite of the substantial increases in expenditures,
overall budgetary transactions, which showed a small deficit in 1975, registered
a surplus of BuF 170 million and BuF 890 million in 1976 and 1977 respectively,
due to the higher growth of tax revenues.
9.        Although Burundi still holds a comfortable net international
reserve position (US$69 million at the end of 1978, equivalent to over eight
months of imports), the situation is less favorable than it was 18 months ago.
During 1978 Burundi lost US$17 million of its reserves, and this despite a
large increase in net disbursements of external loans. According to preliminary
information, several factors were responsible for this deterioration. Despite
a one-third increase in exports of coffee, total merchandise exports dropped
by one fourth to US$67 million, mainly as a result of a 50 percent decline in
the average unit price of this commodity. Although part of this decline was
attributable to unfavorable sales in the forward market, most of it was due to
deteriorating world market conditions. Additionally, in the wake of rapidly
increasing public investment, strong consumer demand, a 12 percent increase in
import prices and rising insurance and freight costs, Burundi's merchandise
imports shot up by one-third to US$98 million. Faced with a significant
decline in revenues from coffee exports, as well as rapidly rising expendi-
tures, after two years of surpluses, the Government was forced to borrow close
to BuF 1,196 million from the banking system (2 percent of GDP) to finance its
overall deficit.
10.       Government Development Strategy.  Since 1977 the Government has
designed a new strategy to achieve social justice, ethnic reconciliation
and improved living conditions in the rural areas. The poll tax, which
was levied on all males, was replaced by compulsory deposits which can be
withdrawn after three years. In addition, small farmers no longer have to
provide services to landowners in exchange for land, as they have acquired
exclusive rights to the land they cultivate. Likewise, land which was
obtained in an irregular manner for speculative purposes has been returned
to the state or to the farmers who cultivated it.  Other aspects of the new
policies, which are embodied in the Third Five-Year Plan (1978-82), are:
(a) to emphasize agricultural production to face the increasing needs in
food supplies of the fast-growing population; (b) to increase the rate
of economic growth substantially in order to provide greater employment
opportunities and more income to the poorest segments of the population;



4-
(c) to raise the investment rate significantly; (d) to give the Government a
more active role in mobilizing financial and manpower resources an in parti-
cipating in mixed enterprises in the commercial and productive sectors; and
(e) to foster decentralization of economic and social activity away from the
capital city and achieve a more balanced geographic distribution through the
creation of development poles, voluntary settlement of the peasant population
in villages, and migration from densely populated areas. To facilitate the
implementation of its strategy, the Government has strengthened the role of
planning by elevating the planning organization to the rank of ministry and by
giving it a key role in the allocation and monitoring of public investment.
11.       External Assistance and Prospects.  Economic prospects are less
favorable than during 1976-77 as a result of rapid declines in coffee prices.
The major issues which the Government currently faces are how to limit the
loss in reserves, preserve its revenue base, and contain inflationary pres-
sures. This will require cautious budgetary income policies and a significant
reduction of the Government's investment targets for the remainder of the
Third Five-Year Plan. In addition, the producer price for coffee will have
to be reduced in real terms, as the world market price for this commodity is
expected to average in real terms, during 1979-82, only 38 percent of the
1977 level. The Government is currently revising its policies in all these
areas as well as considering the use of IMF facilities.
12.       If the Government continues to focus on development and strengthens
its administration, it may achieve a steady, albeit slow, improvement in per
capita income. If mining of Burundi's nickel deposits proves feasible, the
prospects over the next ten years would be much better. However, the commer-
cial viability of exploiting these deposits has yet to be established.
Regional development in Central Africa will also be important to Burundi's
economy. On September 20, 1976, Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire signed a conven-
tion establishing the "Economic Community of the Countries of Great Lakes".
The Community, which has its seat in Gisenyi, Rwanda, aims inter alia at
stimulating and intensifying intra-regional trade and cooperation in a wide
range of activities.  A major objective of the Community is the electrifica-
tion of the Great Lakes region. The three countries have also agreed to set
up a joint development bank, exploit methane deposits around Lake Kivu, and
develop a fishing industry around Lake Tanganyika. They also instructed the
Secretariat to investigate ways of improving the transport system around the
lakes in order to ease the enclavement of Burundi and Rwanda.
13.       Disbursements of official loans and capital grants averaged US$21
million per annum during 1976-77, most of it coming from Belgium, IDA, the
UN agencies, and the European Development Fund.  In the 1973-77 period, total
net foreign capital inflows amounted to about US$95 million, of which US$66
million was in the form of grants.  On December 31, 1978, Burundi's external
medium and long-term debt amounted to about US$55.6 million (excluding
undisbursed amounts), of which IDA held 26 percent. Debt service averaged
3.7 percent of export earnings during 1976-77, with IDA receiving 18 percent
of all debt service payments. Due to the large grant element in external



assistance, IDA will probably continue to hold an important proportion of
Burundi's debt. Notwithstanding the low debt service ratio, Burundi is unable
to absorb any borrowing on commercial terms, because of its poverty and the
instability of its export earnings. External aid should therefore be on grant
or very concessional terms and continue to include a substantial share of
local cost financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       Since IDA lending started in Burundi in 1966, ten Credits have
been made totalling US$48.4 million. One Credit (US$1.1 million) helped
improve water supply to Bujumbura; three Credits (US$13.0 million) were for
agriculture (coffee production and fishing); three Credits (US$19.4 million,
including an engineering credit of about US$400,000) helped start a highway
maintenance and improvement program; a US$10.0 million Credit is supporting
the improvement of primary education; a US$1.5 million Credit was made for
a technical assistance project and the National Economic Development Bank
received a Credit of US$3.4 million. Seven of these Credits (US$44.1 million)
were made after 1973 since civil strife in the years before made lending
difficult. The Second Coffee Project and the Fisheries project are being
cofinanced by the Kuwait Fund (US$1.0 million) and the Abu Dhabi Fund (US$1.2
million). The Second Highway Project is cofinanced by the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) in an amount of US$6.0 million. Annex
II contains a summary statement of IDA Credits and notes on the execution of
projects and the status of disbursements as of March 31, 1979.
15.       Project performance has been uneven, reflecting the lack of local
management capacity and technical skills which is likely to remain a stumbling
block for some time to come. This situation has particularly delayed the
execution of the Fisheries and the Second Coffee projects although recently
the implementation of both projects has improved. Disbursement of the Credit
to the National Economic Development Bank has been lagging because of the
general sluggishness of the industrial sector. Conversely, implementation of
the Education project and the Second Highway project has been very satisfac-
tory. Following a slow start - mainly because of recruitment difficulties -
the first Technical Assistance Credit is now entirely committed. Nearly all
key staff envisaged to be hired under the project are in post and several
studies have been completed.
16.       Future IDA operations in Burundi will continue to focus on improving
agricultural productivity, transportation and education. In addition, lending
will continue to include assistance in the field of project management and
technical expertise. Documents concerning a proposed Second Technical Assis-
tance project are being circulated to the Executive Directors. Preparation of
an agricultural development project which would aim at improving the living
standards of the rural population in one of the poorest areas of the country,
is being completed and the project is expected to be appraised early next
fiscal year. Further improvement of the road sector will be envisaged under
a third highway project to facilitate the distribution of foodstuffs between



- 6 -
surplus and deficit areas and reduce regional price differences. A second
education project is being appraised to improve and expand technical education.
An urban project is being prepared to help improve the living conditions of
the urban poor in Bujumbura. We also intend to provide further assistance to
the industrial sector by supporting the activities of the National Economic
Development Bank.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
17.       General features and Constraints:  Agriculture dominates Burundi's
economy and employs about 90 percent of the total population (about 750,000
farm families). Burundi's agricultural economy is almost exclusively composed
of smallholdings. Average farm size is about one hectare. Farming techniques
are traditional and based on hand labor, using rudimentary equipment (hoes and
machetes). Modern techniques are used only for the cultivation of cash crops.
Extension services or provision of inputs for food crops are limited. Non-
agricultural services in rural areas are poor; although progress is being made
in extending the primary school system, education facilities are still inade-
quate; health centers are limited in number and lack staff and equipment. The
road network is relatively dense, but feeder roads are often impassable during
the wet seasons. The rural population is scattered and there is virtually no
public transport system.
18.       Because of its varied topography and generally favorable climate,
Burundi produces a wide range of crops. The distribution of rainfall between
two wet seasons allows two harvests a year in most places. About 90 percent
of cultivated land is under food crops, mostly beans and manioc. Maize and
sweet potatoes are the other principal crops. The principal cash crop is
coffee followed by tea and cotton though in much smaller quantities. Live-
stock is also being kept, although overgrazing (there are about 760,000
cattle in Burundi) has led to serious soil and pasture deterioration. The
traditional farming techniques, and inadequate extension services cause crop
yields to be generally low. On most farms, no chemical fertilizers are used.
Crop yields depend on leaving the fields fallow and on returning crop residues
to the soil as manure. However, because of extensive deforestation in the
search for more arable land, crop residues are increasingly used for cooking
and heating purposes causing a loss of material for compost which in turn
reduces crop yields even further.
19.       Land Tenure.   All land in Burundi belongs to the Government,
and any unoccupied and unutilized land can be used by the Government for
any purpose. In practice virtually all land (about 98%) is governed by a
combination of traditional land law and modern regulations; about 1 to 2
percent of all land is formally registered, with modern title deeds. Tradi-
tional land rights grant individual usufruct rights to continously cultivated
land, while all pasture land is communally held. Cultivated land can be
passed on to heirs and is occassionally sold within the rural community
for cash. When the Government expropriates cultivated land, compensation must
be paid; the Government can, however, take over other land, including pasture,
without compensation to the local community.



20.       Government Services.  The Ministry of Agriculture Livestock and
Rural Development is responsible for the direction and coordination of all
activities in the agricultural sector. The Ministry also oversees all agri-
cultural research and training activities and employs about 800 extension
staff. The Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi (ISABU), a semi-
autonomous agency under the Ministry of Agriculture, is responsible for
agricultural research. Almost all of its professional staff are foreigners.
ISABU's activities have focussed on the key cash crops and research on fores-
try has been relatively limited. There is pressing need for research on food
crop production and on Burundi's energy use and needs. Lack of manpower and
equipment has been a severe constraint on research activities.
21.       Government Strategy.  The Government's agricultural development
strategy to address the problems described in paragraphs 17-19 is presented
in the Third Five Year Development Plan (1978-1982). Special attention is
given to rural development projects and reforestation. About 22 percent of
total investment is to be allocated directly to the agricultural sector and an
additional 35 percent to related infrastructure such as rural housing, water
supply, electricity and roads; the rural areas are thus expected to benefit
from about 57 percent of total investment. The Government also intends to
convene a Round Table Conference on Agriculture with foreign aid agencies to
discuss the constraints Burundi is facing in agricultural development and
to consider specific project proposals. IDA is assisting the Government in
preparing the documentation for this Conference, which is expected to be held
later in 1979.
The Forestry Sub-Sector
22.       General.  Burundi's forest resources, including woodland savanna
and tree plantations, amount to about 90,000 ha (about 3 percent of the
country's total area). Areas of natural forest include the remnants of dense
mountain tropical forest along the Zaire/Nile crestline (about 40,000 ha),
small areas of savannah woodland (15-20,000 ha), and forest galleries along
water courses and in steep gorges, making a total area of approximately 60,000
ha. It is estimated that there are also some 25,000 ha of forest plantations,
mainly Eucalyptus, as well as roadside trees and small woodlots.
23.       Wood Consumption and Future Needs.  A high proportion of wood con-
sumption is for fuel, especially in the rural areas. Poles are used exten-
sively outside the towns for construction and repair of dwellings. Sawn
timber, when available, is used for construction, furniture manufacture and
boat-building. At present Burundi imports only very small quantities of wood
and wood products. This is largely because costs of imported wood are very
high and supply is not well-organized. Official statistics for the period
1976-1977 indicate that the total for all imports of wood and wood-derived
products represented only about 0.3 percent of the value of all imports,
while metal imports, which substitute for wood at a high cost in the modern
construction sector, represented about 6 percent of the value of imports,
paper and paper products about 2 percent, and petroleum products about
8 percent. Although future wood needs are difficult to estimate, it is



-8-
expected that by the year 2000 the production of at least 50,000 ha of plant-
ation would be required to satisfy3a demand for about 1.3 million tons of wood
(equivalent to about 0.5 million m a year). It is certain that there will be
a demand for wood far in excess of current supplies since demand is steadily
increasing with the growth of population.
24.       Prices and Marketing.  Prices of wood and wood products vary widely.
The most important wood commodity in terms of value is charcoal, which is the
preferred source of fuel for most of Bujumbura's population. Charcoal prices,
which a few years ago were US$2.78 equivalent for a 40 kg bag, had increased
to US$5.56 equivalent by July 1978. Most of the limited trade in wood and
wood derived products centers on the Bujumbura market.
25.       Because forests and plantations are scattered and personnel is
scarce, control of wood cutting and fee collection is almost impossible.
Thus, firewood and poles for construction are usually cut directly by con-
sumers in the rural areas without payment or permits.  Because of the dif-
ficulties of exercising effective controls and for fear of increasing illegal
speculation, the Government hesitates to increase license fees. As a con-
sequence, prices of wood and wood products do not reflect the economic value
of wood. To attain a balanced use of Burundi's forestry resources, it is,
therefore, essential that the Government define a comprehensive policy for
the forestry sector (see para. 30).
26.       Forestry Services.  The Forestry Department is part of the Ministry
of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development. Forestry services are
organized at provincial and district level, with one "agronome forestier" per
province and "assistants forestiers" in the districts, assisted by a varying
number of lower level staff. The Forestry Department's recurrent budget used
to be less than FBu 10 million (US$110,000) p.a., supplemented by a small
development budget; the latter has recently been increased from FBu 10 million
to 35 million.
27.       Training.  Effectiveness of forestry staff is seriously hampered by
a lack of adequate training and supervision. Even today, Burundi does not
have a single national trained forester. Existing forest department staff
have only general training in agriculture, with no specialization in forestry,
and their numbers are far from adequate. Training in existing agricultural
institutions in Burundi devotes only a few hours to forestry. Thus the need
for trained manpower, particular at higher and middle levels, is crucial
and is to be met through training staff overseas and on-the-job training in
Burundi (para. 39).
28.       Energy Needs.  Burundi's forest resources are dwindling rapidly.
Both natural and man-made forests are being cut down faster than they are
being replaced and production is far below the population's minimal require-
ments for fuel wood and building timber. The urban population is directly
affected by the wood shortage, as prices of charcoal increase rapidly and
periodic shortages occur. The prognosis for the near future is a speedy
aggravation of these problems compounded by increases in population and



-9-
reductions in total forested areas. This is likely to lead to a severe energy
crisis and, unless remedial action is taken rapidly, charcoal and wood would
simply no longer be available. Some specialists have predicted the total
disappearance of Burundi's forests in less than a decade. The poorest segments
of the population would suffer most from the increasing prices and ultimate
scarcity. The Government is aware of the gravity of the situation and has
initiated a broad reforestation program.
29.       In the meantime, however, wood supplies will remain inadequate
requiring studies of the possible use of alternative energy sources. Peat was
identified in large quantities in Burundi in 1959. Potentially, these peat
deposits could provide an alternative source for private as well as industrial
consumption. To promote the use of peat for household as well as industrial
purposes (inter alia for the processing of nickel ore), the Government estab-
lished in 1977 a national peat development agency (ONATOUR, Office National
de la Tourbe) which is mining peat at several small valley bottom sites using
manual labor. Current production is about 800 tons a year, although ONATOUR
hopes to increase this rapidly to 5,000 tons a year. Peat is currently used
by some bakeries, tea factories and schools, but has not yet been sold to the
population on a large scale. With financial assistance from USAID and the
Catholic Relief Services, the Government is initiating a pilot project to test
and promote the acceptance of peat by the rural population. The use of peat
for household purposes is meeting with some resistance because it implies
basic changes in cooking habits. Farmers have been reluctant so far to use
peat even when offered free of charge because of high smoke production. The
Government is considering requesting Irish aid and expertise to study further
development of the peat resources and to improve exploitation techniques.
30.       Forestry Development.  Forestry development in Burundi faces three
major problems: (a) a scarcity of land; (b) a critical shortage of local
forestry staff and (c) the lack of a coherent policy for forestry development
and wood prices. A coherent forestry policy for Burundi should include, inter
alia, appropriate measures to protect the natural forests for environmental
purposes, more effective protection and control of plantations, a concerted
effort to develop plantations to meet the needs of the urban and rural popu-
lation for fuel wood and saw timber, a comprehensive pricing policy and an
intensive staff training program. The Government has taken steps to address
these demands. To create a greater awareness among the population of the
impending fuel wood crisis and of the long-term damage to the ecology that may
result from forestry destruction, the Government has proclaimed the year 1979
as "the Year of the Trees". The budget of the Department of Water and Forests
has been increased over the last two years, although it is still too modest
to meet the needs. Until 1976 new plantations rarely exceeded 250 ha p.a.,
but in 1977 they increased to 750 ha. In 1978 the target was 1,500 ha, of
which 1,000 ha would be Government and 500 ha communal plantations. The
proposed project is designed to assist in the development of a coherent
forestry policy including pricing and marketing (paras. 45-47).
31.       Among the foreign aid givers that are assisting the Government in
its reforestation efforts, France has provided support for forestry trials,
research and expertise and is financing a 500 ha project to protect the



- 10 -
natural forest around the Zaire/Nile crest line. The European Development
Fund (EDF) is financing a 3,200 ha forestry project in the Rusizi valley. A
2,000 ha pilot project is being studied by the national agricultural research
institute (ISABU) to be followed by a 12,000 ha project expected to be co-
financed by Belgium and the Saudi Fund for Development. Both projects would
mainly aim at preventing soil erosion on hill tops. Small forestry components
will be included in agricultural projects, which are currently being prepared
in the Rumonge and the Kirimiro regions. USAID is also examining ways to
assist in the forestry sector. Effective coordination among these various
projects is important and will be ensured by the Government institutions
concerned (para. 44). The Government has requested the Association to parti-
cipate in this concerted effort to restore Burundi's forest resources.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.       The proposed project was identified in 1977 and was prepared by
Burundi, with IDA assistance, during 1978. A staff appraisal report entitled
"Burundi Forestry Project" dated May 8, 1979 is being circulated separately
to the Executive directors. A map (IBRD 13869) showing the project areas
is attached. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 16 to 20. The
government delegation was headed by H.E. Donatien Bihute, Minister of Planning.
Objectives and Description of the Project
33.       The project, to be carried out over a period of five years, will be
the first stage of a long-term program to develop basic forestry services and
plantations supplying fuelwood, building poles and timber. its purpose is to
redress the current and worsening shortage of wood resources in the country,
to lessen reliance on wood imports, to increase forest acreage and to restore
the ecological balance. It will assist the Government in devising comprehen-
sive production and marketing policies for the subsector. If successful, the
project could be replicated in other areas of the country. Specifically, the
project will comprise:
(a) Establishment of rural nurseries in 30 of Burundi's 79 com-
munes to produce high quality Eucalyptus seedlings for commune
plantations and for sale to individual farmers;
(b) Development of 2,000 ha of Eucalyptus in the Mageyo area
as a short rotation plantation to supply fuel wood and
charcoal to Bujumbura;
(c) Development of a pine plantation of about 5,000 ha in
Vyanda, near Bururi, to produce saw timber;
(d) Training of Barundi staff for forestry services, princi-
pally through overseas courses at higher and intermediate
levels;



- 11 -
(e) Technical assistance for project management and on-the-job
training for Barundi forestry staff; and
(f) Studies and applied trials, notably a study of Burundi's
energy use and needs, trials of more efficient charcoal
production techniques, development of new designs for
cooking stoves for the rural population and preparation
of future forestry projects.
Detailed Features
34.       Project Area.  Rural nurseries will be established in 30 communes,
several of which have already been selected by the Government. By Ministerial
decree of July 1978, the Government has designated land for the proposed
Eucalyptus and Pine plantations. An area of 6,000 ha has been reserved out
of which 2,000 ha will be utilized for the Eucalyptus plantation and an
additional 29,000 ha has been reserved from which 5,000 ha will be selected
for the Pine plantation.
35.       Rural Nurseries.  30 rural nurseries will be established (i) to
produce Eucalyptus seedlings to plant more than 5,000 ha and (ii) to strengthen
forestry services through training by expatriate advisers and (iii) to provide
advice to farmers on the planting and care of young trees. In view of the
limited capacity of the forestry services, the establishment of the nurseries
will be spread over three years at the rate of 10 communes each year. One
of the objectives of the nurseries is to encourage the rural population to
cultivate wood lots to supply their own domestic fuel needs and to support
communal planting programs. At full production (about five years after
project inception) each rural nursery is expected to produce about 100,000
seedlings (mostly Eucalyptus) per year of which about 40 percent will be
planted by the communal administration and 60 percent will be sold to the
public. Seed will be imported from neighboring countries to introduce new
and better stock. Forest services at the provincial and communal level will
be closely associated with the supervision of nursery operations and extension
activities of nursery staff. Planting will be undertaken on communal land -
at communal expense and for communal use - by the commune administration and
by schools and missions.
36.       Eucalyptus Plantation.  A short-rotation Eucalyptus plantation
of about 2000 ha will be established at Mageyo (east of Bujumbura) to supply
pine wood, charcoal and building poles, principally for the population of
Bujumbura. Plantation would be gradual, reaching 2000 ha during the project
period. Infrastructure required includes upgrading of existing rural roads
and establishment of forestry tracks, fire protection and buildings for
plantation staff housing, offices, stores and workshops. The plantation would
be exploited either by a parastatal company established for this purpose or by
licensed private entrepreneurs. A decision on this matter will be taken by
the end of the project period.



- 12 -
37.       Pine Timber Plantation:  A Pine plantation of about 5,000 ha would
be established at Vyanda in the Bururi province to produce saw timber for
use throughout Burundi. Ultimately, about 25,000 ha of pine are expected
to be planted in the Bururi province to supply a future sawmill. To support
the planting program, nurseries will be established producing over 2 million
seedlings per year by the end of the project period. In addition, construc-
tion of staff housing and offices, some road improvement and the establishment
of forest tracts are included. The exploitation of the Vyanda Pine planta-
tion would be undertaken by a parastatal company or by licensed private entre-
preneurs; arrangements for these matters will be made when the capacity of the
future saw mill is determined (in about 10 years from project inception).
38.       Land Use and Tenure.  Because of the scarcity of land and the
necessity for Burundi to increase food crop production to meet the nutri-
tional needs of the population, land which is suitable for cultivation will
not be used for the project. Most land in the areas designated for planta-
tion development is currently unutilized or used by the local population
for extensive grazing of livestock. In designating land for plantation
development the principal criterion was the selection of sites which were
sparsely populated largely to avoid the need to expropriate farms and to
avert possible friction with the local population. Expropriation might be
required but only in exceptional circumstances and would be subject to the
payment of an appropriate compensation (para. 19). The situation of land
tenure and the impact of plantation developments on the local population
will be carefully monitored during project supervision. The detailed plant-
ing programs for the Eucalyptus and Pine plantations will be submitted to the
Association for approval prior to initiating these programs (Section 3.06 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
39.       Technical Assistance and Training.  Because of the lack of suitably
qualified Barundi staff, a team of specialists will be hired to help implement
the project. To strengthen the national forestry services at higher and
middle levels, the Government has prepared a detailed training program with
the assistance of UNDP and FAO based on the overall manpower requirements
projected for the forestry sub-sector. Most training would be at specialized
institutions in Africa and Europe. In addition, provision has been made for
training visits to forestry projects in neighboring African countries. Exten-
sion staff will be trained by the project management team during execution
of the project. The Director-General of Agriculture will have the general
responsibility for the execution of the training program, which will be
discussed periodically with the Association, and will submit annual progress
reports to the Association, (Section 3.04(b)(iii) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
40.       Studies and Trials.  Several studies and trials will be carried out
under the project, some of which will be more specifically defined during proj-
ect execution. The Ministry of Planning is considering a study of Burundi's
projected energy needs until the year 2000, which will be prepared and moni-
tored with the assistance of IDA. A study would be carried out to develop
new designs for cooking stoves for use by the rural population. The project
also includes studies for the preparation of future forestry projects. The



- 13 -
terms of reference will be subject to IDA approval before the start of each
study (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Trials will
be undertaken to improve charcoal production methods for which a few kilns (a
heated enclosure made of steel cylinders) of advanced design will be imported.
With this design charcoal can be produced five times faster with half as much
wood as with the method currently used in Burundi. It is already widely used
in Uganda and Kenya and other African countries. A consultant will be hired
to train local operators and supervisors in the use of the kilns with the
expectation that by the end of the project period, a private enterprise will
be interested in taking over the operation on a wider scale.
Project Implementation
41.       The Department of Waters and Forests of the Ministry of Agriculture
will have the principal responsibility for the implementation of the project's
forestry development components including the rural nurseries. A project
management unit will be established including a Project Manager and two silvi-
culturists who will be expatriates, and a Deputy Project Manager, three deputy
silviculturists and an accountant who will be nationals. The expatriate
silvilculturists will be responsible for the rural nurseries and the planta-
tions. The employment of the expatriates will be under terms of reference and
in accordance with qualifications which will be approved by the Association.
The Government will ensure that competent support staff in sufficient numbers
will be assigned to the project unit (Section 3.01 c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The appointment of the Project Manager, the Deputy Project
Manager, the two expatriate silviculturists and the accountant is a condition
of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 d) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
42.       The Government will establish a revolving fund with an initial
deposit of US$200,000 equivalent to be managed by the Project Manager under
the direct control of the Director of Water and Forests and to be replenished
quarterly by the Government, so that sufficient funds will be at hand throughout
the implementation of the project. The establishment of this revolving fund
is a condition of credit effectiveness (Sections 3.01(b) and 6.01(c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.       The Department of Water and Forests will prepare semi-annual and
annual reports during project implementation which would include a review
of the rural nurseries in operation and their annual production and sales;
progress with the Eucalyptus and Pine plantations, the construction of feeder
roads and tracks and other infrastructure, and the impact of the planting
program on the local population, specifically the impact on livestock keeping
in project areas. Not later than six months after the closing date of the
Credit, the Government will prepare a completion report evaluating the proj-
ect's operations and benefits (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
44.       Since the proposed project will be part of an overall reforestation
program, the Government recognizes the importance of close coordination of
the various forestry projects which will be undertaken with foreign aid. The



- 14 -
Director of Water and Forests has been made responsible for project coordi-
nation in cooperation with the Ministries of Planning and Finance and will
ensure that overall project implementation will proceed smoothly and that
difficulties of technical nature, staffing and extension requirements will
be resolved satisfactorily.
Prices and Marketing
45.       As stated above (para. 30) the Government has not yet established
a policy for pricing and marketing of forestry products. However, the Govern-
ment recognizes the need for a comprehensive pricing and marketing policy
and has agreed that fees for forest exploitation should gradually be increased
to a level reflecting the economic value of wood. The Government has also
accepted the principle that charges for all forest products regulated by the
Government should reflect the costs of production and will introduce by
December 31, 1980 a system of charges adequate to cover gradually the full
production costs (Section 4.03(ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
To assist the Government in developing a realistic price system, the project
provides that the Government will regularly consult with the Association on
general pricing and marketing policies affecting the forestry subsector
(Section 4.04(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
46.       It is intended to recover the production costs of the nurseries
through the sale of seedlings to farmers. Although introduction of charges
to farmers should be cautious as farmers are not accustomed to pay for many
inputs and services and might resist payments for seedlings in cash, the
Government will use its best efforts to sell seedlings produced by the
nurseries at prices adequate to recover their full production costs (excluding
only expatriate management costs). The annual production costs of the 30
nurseries at full development (about four years after project inception) is
estimated at about US$110,000 equivalent. It is expected that at full develop-
ment charges for seedlings would yield about US$80,000 per year. The Govern-
ment will consult periodically with the Association on prices charged for
seedlings and the adequacy of incentives to farmers to plant trees (Section
4.03(i) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Forest department
nurseries have operated for several years in many parts of the country, and
have never encountered any difficulty in distributing all available seedlings.
However, there has been to date no significant experience with the sale of
seedlings, although farmers are gradually getting more willing to pay for some
services provided by the Government, for instance with respect to veterinary
and medical services. If farmers prove unwilling to pay cash for seedlings,
and if no coherent cost recovery policy were introduced for other inputs, the
level of payment required for seedlings would be reviewed. Alternative
solutions might involve a reduced charge for seedlings, or distribution of
seedlings in conjunction with communal labor schemes.
47.       The Government will also ensure that the stumpage rates (the value
of standing timber) charged for wood produced by the plantations will be
sufficient to recover the full investment, operation and maintenance cost of
the plantations (Section 4.04 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The market for Eucalyptus plantation production is virtually guaranteed since



- 15 -
it will be producing fuel wood for Bujumbura in quantities which are relatively
small in comparison to demand.  The theoretical stumpage rate which would          3
cover the production costs (based on mid 1979 prices) is istimated at FB 800/m
(about US$9) and would translate into a price of FB 550/m (US$6) for a 40 k
bag of charcoal. This is not much higher than the current price of FB 500/mi
which is basically determined by the scarcity of wood. Similarly, it is
anticipated that the selling price of building poles will not be much above
the prices currently being charged. Pine produced at the Vyanda plantation
will be marketed throughout the country with an estimated total cost of one
cubic meter sawn timber at mill site of about FB 11,570 (US$128). This is
considerably more than the current price of FB 7,000 (US$77), but would be
less than the price of US$167 equivalent quoted for imported Cypress sawn
timber from Kenya. With regard to the pricing and marketing arrangements
for future eucalyptus and pine wood produced by the plantations at Mageyo and
Vyanda respectively, the Government will consult the Association before June
30, 1984 (Section 4.04(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Prolect Cost and Financing
48.       The total cost of the project has been estimated at US$8.8 million
(net of taxes, which are negligible) of which about US$4.7 million (or 53 per-
cent) in foreign exchange. Project costs were estimated at prices as of March
1979. The proposed US$4.3 million IDA Credit will finance about 49 percent of
total project costs. A Credit of about US$1.2 million from the EEC Special
Action Account representing about 13 percent of total project costs, will
finance the construction of buildings and the cost of the studies and trials
included in the project. UNDP agreed to contribute about US$700,000 to
finance overseas fellowships in forestry and a study tour for Barundi staff
designated to manage the project. France (FAC) has agreed to contribute the
equivalent of about US$1.86 million to finance the technical assistance costs
of the project (about 21 percent of total project cost). Total external
financing is estimated at about 91 percent. The FAC, EEC and UNDP financing
will be provided on a parallel basis. IDA, acting as Administrator of the EEC
Special Action Credit, will enter into a separate agreement with the Government
of Burundi. The Government will contribute the equivalent of about US$700,000
which will finance about 9 percent of total project cost. The financing plan
is as follows:
Total
Local    Foreign    US$ Million    %
Government of Burundi           0.77        -            0.77       9
France (FAC)                    0.19      1.67           1.86      21
UNDP                            0.07      0.63           0.70       8
EEC (Special Action Account)  0.78        0.42           1.20      13
IDA                             2.26      2.04           4.30      49
Total Project Cost              4.07      4.76           8.83     100
The FAC Grant Agreement, the UNDP Grant Agreement and the EEC Special Action
Credit Agreement will be linked with the IDA Credit Agreement through cross
effectiveness provisions (see para. 56 below).



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       With respect to goods to be financed from the IDA Credit, contracts
for the supply of vehicles, materials and equipment exceeding US$80,000 will
be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. Contracts will be grouped to the extent possible. Contracts for
materials and equipment costing US$80,000 or less will be awarded following
government procurement procedures, which are considered satisfactory; however,
for purchases of goods costing above US$20,000 quotations will be sought
from suppliers in at least three countries. Contracts for civil works will
be awarded locally following local competitive bidding, since these contracts
will be small and scattered throughout Burundi and therefore unlikely to
attract international firms. Development of the plantation sites will be
undertaken directly by the project management services. The road works will
be carried out by the project management services and by a mechanical pool
of the Department of Genie Rural (Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and
Rural Development). Civil works for the construction of offices and housing
financed under the EEC Special Action Credit will be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, while the
construction of workshops will be carried out by force account.
50.       IDA funds will be disbursed as follows:  (a) 100 percent of foreign
exchange expenditure and 90 percent of local expenditures for vehicles, equip-
ment and materials; (b) 90 percent of total expenditures for civil works,
including buildings, road works, and direct costs of plantation development
and of total operating costs of Project implementation and (c) 100 percent
of foreign exchange expenditures and 90 percent of local expenditures for
project preparation work, and monitoring and evaluation. Disbursements
against (a) and (c) will be fully documented. Disbursements against (b) will
be made against statements of expenditure certified by the Director of Water
and Forests and the Ministry of Finance, the documentation of which will be
retained for inspection by IDA supervision missions. The IDA Credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by the end of 1985. EEC funds will be dis-
bursed as follows: 90 percent of total expenditures for civil works (con-
struction of buildings), and 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90
percent of local expenditures for studies and trials.
Economic Justification and Benefits
51.       The economic rate of return from all directly productive components
of the project (about 80 percent of total project costs) is estimated at about
20%. The costs of overseas training, studies and trials, and future project
preparation were not included in the analysis, as benefits from these activi-
ties would accrue principally in future projects and programs. No separate
rate of return was calculated for the rural nurseries because of the diffi-
culty in defining an appropriate value for either the seedlings or the even-
tual wood production. Valuations against alternative sources of energy would
not be realistic since the rural population would not be able to afford them.
The rate of return for the Eucalyptus plantation is estimated at 17 percent
(over 33 years) assuming that the economic value of wood for urban consumption
is equivalent to the value of the principal available alternative, which is



- 17 -
kerosene. The rate of return of the Pine plantation is estimated at 22 per-
cent (over 22 years) assuming that the economic value of timber equals the
projected cost of importing sawn timber, including transport and milling.
The rates of return are most sensitive to reduction in yields and delays in
project implementation, but under all reasonable assumptions they would still
be satisfactory.
52.       In undertaking the proposed project, the Government of Burundi
is committed to a long term development program that in particular for the
Vyanda Pine plantation will not yield financial benefits for a number of
years. The principal benefits of the project include an increased supply
of fuel wood, building poles and charcoal to the population. About 8 years
after project inception, the rural nurseries are expected to provide the fuel
wood and building pole requirements of about 6,000 rural families in each
year of Speration and the Eucalyptus plantation is expected to produce about
30,000 m a year to supply part of the fuel wood and building pole require-
ments of the population of Bujumbura. These targets are conservatively esti-
timated. The Vyanda Pine plantation is expected to produce about 215,000 m
of saw logs after a period of 20-25 years - assuming that the proposed project
will be followed by additional phases - to support a sawmilling industry which
would be established in future years. Smallwood will be produced to help meet
other industrial or rural fuel needs. The rural nursery program is likely
to encourage part of the rural population to reduce the use of agricultural
residues for fuel thus enhancing soil fertilization and reducing erosion.
53.       Non quantifiable benefits are that the project's technical assis-
tance and training components will help develop effective forest services
for Burundi and that this project will assist the Government in formulating
adequate forestry development policies. Additional benefits are that project
investments are expectea to have a significant employment impact in the areas
concerned as plantation development will be highly labor intensive. The rural
nurseries will employ about 60 persons permanently, and up to 20 laborers at
certain periods. The Eucalyptus plantation will employ 120 permanent staff
and up to 800 laborers, while the Pine plantation will require about 220 full
time staff and up to 1,500 casual laborers. The total number of permanent
jobs created will be about 400 while about 3,000 day workers will be employed.
Risks
54.       The Project does not face any unusual risks.  Delays in project
implementation could result from management difficulties, problems in recruit-
ing staff, or slow deliveries of materials and equipment from overseas; these
delays would, however, not significantly reduce the economic rate of return
of the project. Compared with many other operations in the rural development
and agriculture sector, the project is simple in design and should require
limited reliance on administrative services and farmers' cooperation for
support. An important risk relates to the rural nursery component because of
its experimental nature, including the uncertainty concerning the willingness
of farmers to pay for seedlings and to develop woodlots on a scale sufficient
to meet their fuel needs. While failure of this component would only cause



- 18 -
small financial losses, it could have more serious long-term implications for
Burundi in terms of soil fertility and erosion. This will be closely monitored
during project implementation. Another possible risk is that yields would be
lower than expected; experience with plantation development in Burundi is
limited, and soil conditions in the project areas are not well known. However,
experience with other African countries suggests that yield estimates are
reasonable, and probably conservative. A further risk is destruction of
plantations by fire, but this risk is common to all forestry projects and
appropriate provision has been made for fire prevention measures.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Burundi and the Association, the draft EEC Special Action Credit Agreement
between the Republic of Burundi and the International Development Associa-
tion as Administrator of the EEC Special Action Account established with
funds contributed by the Member States of the EEC, and the Recommendations
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d), of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
56.        Additional conditions of effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement
are (i) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the FAC and UNDP
Grant Agreements and of the EEC Special Action Credit Agreement, other than
the effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled; (ii) that
the revolving fund has been established with a deposit of at least US$200,000
equivalent; and (iii) that all key project staff have been appointed (Section
6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). An additional condition of
effectiveness of the Special Action Credit Agreement is that all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement, other than the
effectiveness of the EEC Special Action Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled
(Section 6.01 of the draft Special Action Credit Agreement).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the proposed EEC Special
Action Credit would be in conformity with the Agreement dated May 2, 1978
between the Association and the EEC and its Member States.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit
and the proposed EEC Special Action Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 9, 1979



ANNEX I
- 20
Page I of 5
TABLE 3A
BURUNDI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BURUNDI                                                    L
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL              27.8                                                      SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       16.9                                  MHST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP fe
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                     50.0        80.0      130.0            223.6       182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        10.0 /f      15.0       13.0             86.7        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                           2.8          3.4       4.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  1.9            3.1        3.7             13.6        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KH.                         99.0        121.0      144.0             18.4        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    173.0          206.0      237.0             53.6       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           46.8 /1      45.0       44.1 /h          44.4        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                           49.0 /A      52.0 L    53.8 /h           52.7        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     4.2 /g       3.0 li    2.1 /h            2.8         2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.1          2.0        2.2              2.6         2.4          2.7
URBAN                                5.3          7.1        5.8              5.8         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       48.3         47.9       48.0             46.9        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       30.6         28.0       24.7             20.6        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.6 /1       2.8        2.8              3.1         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..         ..              2.5        14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               87.9        100.0       97.2             94.2        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     82.0         99.0       99.0             90.1        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            47.0         61.0       62.0 /k          55.2        50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         28.0         40.0         ..             17.1        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          ..          ..         ..               ..          ..7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    33.5           38.5       39.0             43.7        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            150.0 ft    138.0          ..            138.4       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..             22.4        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                 ..         77.0         ..             66.3        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..             10.4        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..             23.9        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..             70.3        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..             14.2         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           63000.0      59000.0   45110.0           21757.5    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       5420.0       7500.0    5500.0            3473.8      6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              730.0        790.0      760.0            645.4      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                  ..        70.0         ..            172.9       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                 ..        730.0         ..           1292.6      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..          ..         ..              19.2       19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..              4.9         5.2
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..              5.0         4.8
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..              4.7         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               ..         1.8          2.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..         ..                ..       25.9         28.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                ..        8.7         10.3



-21-                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABL! 3A
BURUNDI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BURUNDI                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /a
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MDST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  19.0         21.7       12.6             52.1        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                 9.0         14.4        9.5             37.6        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0          2.0        3.0              8.0        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 1.0          1.0        2.0              5.0         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 35.0           24.0       15.0              7.2         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             36.0         37.0       31.0             43.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           15.0         12.0       18.0             22.8        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         13.9           ..       10.0             20.3        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.6          1.0        1.1              3.9         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         18.0       27.0             40.1        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..              2.2         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..         0.1        0.3              3.9         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..              1.2         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1500.0       1700.0    1900.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    45.1         44.8      44.4              32.6        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               90.0         86.0         ..             73.3        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.0          3.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 52.7         51.2       49.6             42.0        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  58.5         57.2       55.8             54.8        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                47.0         45.3       43.4             27.3        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        0.9              1.2         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..             25.7        20.3         i9.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..         ..             55.1        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..              5.8         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..             14.5        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      121.0            108.8        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       80.0             74.1        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..            124.4       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..       30.0             59.6        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       30.0             26.8        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       90.0             47.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);   /e  Lower Middle Income
($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /f  1962;   /i  1965;  lh  Population aged 15-59 and 60 years and over
respectively;  /i  1971;  /1 1957;  /k  1967-71 average.
September, 1978



_22-                                                       ANNEX I
DKPISIITIOIIS 07 SOCLlL I71DICATS                                      Page   3   of   5
Usa   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric insne, excluding the extree valus of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countrie, among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Du  to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Ixporters and indicators of accesa to water and excrete dimposal, housing. incom distribution and poverty are
iple population-wihted geomtric mans  without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand eq. kh)                                                                Population per hospital bad - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface ara comprising land era  and in7lnd waters                            urbn, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Aaricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public  nd private general  nd specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hoepitals are establisheants permanently staffed by
lie fallow                                                                               at least ont physician.  Establishmnts providing principally custodial
care  are not included.  Rural hoepitals  however. include health and  edi-
ONP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP par capit- estimtes at current market prices,                     cal centers not perm-antly tffed  by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by aeme conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                aistnt, nures, midwife, etc.) which offar in-patient  ccosodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admiseions per hospital bed - Total number of  dmisions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PEf  CAPITA - Annual consumption of coonercial energy                     from  hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petrolum, mtural gs and hydro-, nucler and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average sios of household (per-on. Per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population. aid-yer (millions) - An of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or my not be included in
verage of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas my affect comparability                     Averaxe number of persons oar room - total, urban, and rural - Average nun-
of data smong countries,                                                                 ber of parsons per room  in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings* respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures sod
Per  q. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - totai. urban, and rural -
Per sq. k.. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwelliags with electricity in livirg quarters as percentage
only                                                                                     of total, urban  and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Childrea  (0-14 years)    orking-ags
(15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primry school - total  and female - Total snd feale enrollment of a11 age.
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primry level as percentages of respectively primary ochool-.eg
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year srithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent *ince some pupils are belov or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimat.                       sbove the official achool age.
Crude desth rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     S..ondary school - total, and female - Computed an above; .scondary educa-
year population; tan-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved priusry inotrrction; pro-
end five-year average ending in 1975 for soot recent estiate,                            video general vocational, or teacher truining instructions for pupils
ircee reproduction rat. - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 yearo of age; corre-pondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she eoperiences present age-                        ecluded.
npecific fertility rates; usually five-year  verages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollmnt (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other prograno which operate independently
FPeily planning - acceptors   nnual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departmenta of secondary institutiono.
acceptors of birth-onntrol devices under auspices of national faily                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning pro-ra.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by nombers of teachers in the corro-
Fonily planning - users (percent of erried women) - Percentage of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (sblo to read and writs) an
devices to s11 married women in *sme age group,                                          a percentage of total adult population eged 15 yearn and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Inden of food production per capita (1970-100) - Inde.  number of per                   Passengor cern (per thousand population) - P.anenger cam  comyreie notor cars
capita annual production of all food comodities.                                       seating lens then eight pernons; secludes axhulancee, hearses  and  ilitary
Per capita .upply of calories (percent of requirments) - Computed fron                   vehicles
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivero for radio
por day.  Available supplies comprise domeestic production, imports lesa               broadcests to general public per thousand of population; ..cludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies occlude animal feed, seedn,               rceivers in countries and in years when regintration of radio sotl  .s. in
quantitien used in food processing, and looses in distribution.   Re-                  effect; data for recent years msy not be co-purable oince nost countrien
quireonont  were estimsted by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
=al activity and health conuidering environmental tmperature, body                    TV receivers (per thoosand population) - TV receivers for broadoant to genera
weights, age and se  distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludee unlicensed TV rec.ivere in coup-
cet for waste at household level.                                                       trieo and in yearn when registration of TV nets was in effect.
9er capita supply of protein (greas per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita not supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tiot of "daily general interest newspaper", defined an a periodical publi-
abovo.  cequire.ento for a11 countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted prmariily to recording general ntown    It in considered to
o  niion  allowance of 60 gra-n of total protein per day and 20 grace                   bh  "daily" if it appearn at leant foor tie= a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 groa. should be apical protein.              Cineca annoal attendance per capit. per year - faced on the number of tickets
These standards are lower then thooe of 75 gras of total protein and                     sold during rho year, including adoistions to drive-in cinoema  and nobile
23 grano of animal protein an an averoge for tho world, proposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein sopply fr.n *ninal and pulse - Protein nupply of food               ENPLOYNIENT
derived frn.  animals and polsoe  in grace per day.                                   Total labor force (thouuands) - Econocically action peroons, including srted
Child (agee  1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thiue-                  forces ond unecployed but excluding housewiven, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age groop.                               tions in varioos coontries are not coeparable.
Perale (perceet) - Fe=alo labor force an percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (perce-    ) - Labor force in fcrming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life eapecraccy at birth (years) - Averaga cuober of years of life                         an percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; uoually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - 'abor force in =ining, construction,   anufacturing and
ond 1975.                                                                                electricity, outer and gas as percentage of total labor force.
lnfant  ortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deathr  of infants under                  Participation rate (percent) - total.   le. and fecale - Total, male, and
000 year of  geg  per thousand live birhtn.                                              crud0 labor forc   s perceorogen of their respe-cice populution.
Access to safe water (percent of  opulation) - total, urban, and rural -                    The- core ILOu adjuoted partioipotion ratat reflectingaye-snx
Nu=ber of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable ac..ss  to                   ostroctre of rho popclati-o, -nd rog tife trend.
nufe cater supply (includes treated surface cetera or untreated but                   Econo=ic depeodeoct  ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and cooe  to
ucconta-inared water ouch as that free protected boroholen, springn,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary welln) as percentages of their respective popolations.
In an  rban area a poblic fountain or stecdpoot located not core                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 netre. from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
soneble access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent. and poorest 40 percent
i=ply that the housewife or -eebern of the household do not have to                      of huseholds.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the fanily's
outer needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Accc  to e. creta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                   Estinated absolute poverty  one level (10$ per capita) - urban and total -
rural - Nunber of people (total, urban, and rural) nerved by encreto                        Absolute poverty inco=e level in that intone level below which a minia.
disposal an percentages of their renpective yopolations   Etcreta                         notritionally adequate diet plus essential con-food requirements is o-
dinposal say include the collection and dinposal, with or without                        affordable.
creatoent, of hucan encrer  and wa lce-wator hyontot-borne systec                     Etatieated relative poverty inco=e level (USi  per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privieotend nicilar instaliation.                                       Relative poverty inco.e  level in that inone level lost than one-third
Population per phyolcian - Population divided by nu=ber of practicing                       per capita personal incone of the country.
physicians qualified fro= a nedical school at -niversity level.                        E.tioated poulation hbeo  poverty  ince level (percent)  - urban and rcral -
copulotion pot cursing person - Population divided by nunber of                             Percent of population (urban and rurol) who ore either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and fenale graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater.
aosistant nurses.
Etoonoic and Social Dita Divinion
Economic Analysis and Projections DePart=ent



AXiEX I
-23 -                          Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIOIIAL PRODUCT IN 197T                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%,  constant prices)
US$ EMn.                                                   1971-76            1977
GNP at Market Prices           539.1       100.0                                             2.1             3.7
Gross Domestic Investment       60.2        11.2                                             3-4            13.5
Gross National Saving           48.1         8.9                                             5.5           -83.5
Current Account Balance         16.9         3.1
Exports of Goods, NFS           96.3        17.9                                            1.0            -14.6
Imports of Goods, NFS          94.7         17.6                                            3.5             18.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added
US$ Nln.     1-
Agriculture                    320.6   * 64.1
Industry                        64.7       12.9
Services                       115.3       23.0
Unallocated                       0.0       0.0
Total/Average           500.6     100.0
OOVERN)ENT FINANCE
Central Government
xBuF MLn.)         % of GDP
-1977      I7           197 17-77
Current Receipts                                                                   7,998.0       16.3        12.8
Current Expenditure                                                               55,_206.7      10.6        10.6
Current Surplus                                                                    2,791.3        5.7         2.2
Capital Expenditures                                                               1,928.0        3.9         2.2
External Assistance (net) 2/                                                       2,385.0        4.9         4.2
IVNET, CREDIT and PRICES                   1Q74        1975         1976         197T         1978
(Millipn BuF outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                   3,542.3      3,544.4      5,220.4      8,283.2      9,411.2
Bank credit to Public Sector              897.6      1,271.6     1,125.0         270.8     1,467.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector           2,730.0      1,322.6     1,532.2       1,886.9      4,491.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % ot GDP           15.8        15.5         21.0          30.9        15.1
General Price Index (1970 a 100)           132.2       153.1        i64.5         175.7       212.6
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         15.8        15.8          7.4          6.8         21.0
Bank credit to Public Sector                 -          41.7        -11.5        -75.9        441.7
Bank credit to Private Sector               88.8       -51.6         53.7         23.1        138.0
NDTE: All conversions to dollars in this table, are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
B Eulgetary transactions only.
21   Grants and r3et foreign disbursements to the public sector.
not available
not applicable



- 24                                       ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
IIUDE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOB
3AIANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1975     1976     1977                                                US $ Mln    Z
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS          34.8     61.5     96.3              Coffee                              55.4    91.6
ILaports of Goods, NFS        80.0      77.5     94.7              Cotton                               1.0     1.7
Resource Gap (deficit =     -)   -0 --.           -.               Tea                                  0.7    1.2
1.6         T~~ea                                 1.3     2.1
Ir,terest Payments (net)      -0.4      -0.5     -0.5
Workers' Remittances           -8.2   -10.T    -13.2
Other Factor Payments (net)    -         -        -
Net Transfers                 21.1      31.4     29.0               All other commodities               2.1      3.4
Balance on Current Account   -32.7       4.2     1.                       Total                        60.5  1oo,0
Direct Foreign Investment      -         -        -                XTERNAL DEBT, DECEMEBR 31. 1978
Net NLT Borrowing
Disbursements              14.7       4.2     14.8                                                        US $ Mln
Amortization                1.6       2.3      2.2
Subtotal                   13.1       1.9     12.6               Public Debt, iucl. guaranteed             55.5
Capital Grants                18.4      13.9     13.9               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           17.8      -7.0     -0.3               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             -.         1 1      0-9                                                         55.5
Increase in Reserves (+)      14.5     i4.1    44.Q               DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 197T-
Gross Reserves (end year) 2/1327.o      49.2    95.8                                                           X
Net Reserves   (end year) 3/  28.0      42.1    86-1                Public Debt. incl. guaranteed              2.8
lon-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                           Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports
of which: Petroleum        3.7      5.8       5.6
Exports
of which: Petroleun         -         -        -        IBRD/IDA LENDING, March 31, 1979  (Million US$)
BURD        IDAi
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                       _RID
Outstanding & Disbursed                -        17.9
Throuqh Feb. 1973              Since May 3, 1976               Undisbursed                            -        30.5
US $1.00 - BuF 87.5            US $ 1.00 *uiF 900              Outstanding incl. Undisbureed
BuF  100  = US $1.14           BuF  100  = US $1.11                                                            48.4
From March 1973 to May 2. 1976
US$1.00   BuF 78.75
BuF 100   US$1.27
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
-I Central Bank.
3/ By December 1978, gross and net reserves were equal to US$82.8 million and US$69.3 million respectively.
not available
April, 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Burundi
(as of March 31, 1979)
Amount
Loan or                                                          US$ million
Credit                                                      (less cancellations)
Number     Year      Borrower      Purpose               Bank   IDA 2/  Undisbursed
One loan 1/ and three credits fully disbursed            4.8      3.3          -
467-BU      1974     Burundi   Highway Maintenance        -       5.0         1.4
593-BU      1975     Burundi   Second Coffee Improve-
ment                   -       5.2         2.4
613-BU      1976     Burundi   Technical Assistance    -          1.5         0.6
626-BU      1976     Burundi   Fisheries Development   -          6.0         5.0
679-BU      1977     Burundi   Education                  -      10.0         6.0
731-BU     1978      Burundi   Development Bank           -       3.4         2.5
773-BU 3/  1978      Burundi   Second Highway Project  -         14.0       12.6
TOTAL                              4.8    48.4         30.5
of which has been repaid           4.8
0.0
TOTAL now held by IDA              0.0    48.4
Total undisbursed                          30.5        30.5
1/   Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for
the improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of
the Lake port of Bujumbura. The loan which was guaranteed by the
Kingdom of Belgium has been fully repaid.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
There have been no IFC investments in Burundi.
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 467-BU      Highway Maintenance Project:  US$5.0 million of
March 27, 1974; Effective Date: August 22 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The Highway Maintenance Project is the first phase of a long-term
program to establish an efficient highway maintenance organization. The
project which has been substantially completed consists of the purchase of
maintenance equipment, spare parts, fuel and construction materials, the
construction of a workshop and consultant services for technical assistance
and training, a study on the development of the road sector and feasibility
studies. The project is cofinanced by the UNDP (US$1.05 million for technical
assistance), Germany (US$1.33 million for the construction of and technical
assistance to the mechanical workshop in Bujumbura) and Belgium (US$400,000
for local cost financing). Execution of the project has been satisfactory,
except for some early delays caused by a procurement problem concerning the
award of a contract for the purchase of 36 tipping trucks (about US$1.3
million). All equipment has now been procured and mechanical road maintenance
is well under way. However, recent hostilities in neighboring countries has
led to shortages of fuel and cement thus causing some delays in mechanical
maintenance operations. Several manual road maintenance crews and one mecha-
nized maintenance unit have been established resulting in a substantial
improvement in the quality of road inaintenance works. The construction of the
workshop in Bumjumbura has been completed. Good progress has been made in
training road maintenance personnel.
Credit No. 593-BU      Second Coffee Improvement Project:  US$5.2 million
Of December 5, 1975; Effective Date: October 7, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The Project is a continuation of the first Coffee Improvement
Project (US$1.8 million Credit No. 147-BU of April 11, 1969). It is being
co-financed by the Kuwait Fund (US$1.2 million) on a parallel basis and by
Belgium (about US$600,000). The Kuwait Fund finances the construction of
ten coffee washing stations, and Belgium assists in the carrying out of a
coffee research component. The project is designed to support the development
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action beitig taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
of coffee and food production by strengthening and expanding extension services
and distribution of agriculttural irIputs; it includes a pilot rural development
programi to improve livestock and food crop production. Start up of the
project was slow because of frequent changes in foreign and local project
staff. Recently, a new team of foreign experts was appointed and project
management is now improving. Coffee extension work is showing favorable
results but food crop development is behind schedule becausle XF a lack of
selected seeds and past management problems. Construction of the ten coffee
washing stations is expected to be completed by the end of 1979.
Credit No. 613-BU      Teclnical Assistance Project:  US$1.5 million of
March 19, 1976; Effective date:  July 13, 1976;
Closing Date:_ June 30, 1980
This project provides financing for hiring long term advisers
and short-term consultants to assist in planning, collection of statistics
and project preparation. Several long term advisers (including a senior
economic adviser and a senior statistician in the Ministry of Planning, a
savings bank expert and a peat expert) are in post. Experts t( advise the
Government on the processing of nickel ore are being recruited. Several
short-term studies and consultants services relating to the preparation of
projects in the agricultural secti  h aave been carried out and are being
completed.
Credit No. 626-BU      Fisheries Development Project; U.S$6.0 million of
June II, 1976*; ffective Date:_ February 22  1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This project is designed to increase the production of fish through
the provision of training, equipment and materials to fishermen and to improve
the distribution of fish throughout Burundi. The project aLso provides
for the preparation of an integrated r,uraL development plan for the coastal
region along Lake Tanganyika and the implementation of pilot development
activities.  The project is co-FLi-icaled by a US$1.2 million loan from the
Abu Dhabi Bund. Initial project execution was slow because of difficulties in
recruiting adequate foreign experts for administration and finance and boat
u,1l1ding, causing delays in the purchase of fisheries equipment and boat
construction. All foreign technical assistants are now ir. post and project
mianagement is expected to improve.  Several newly constructed fishing stations
are in operation. Procurement of fishing equipment is being accelerated and
boat building is underway. Tenrs of reference for several studies regarding
the development of the coastal lake area have been defined and the studies are
expected to start soon.
Credit No. 679-BU      Education. Project:  US$10.0 million of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date:  September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This project assists the Government in continuing and consolidating
the reform of primary education. It aims at substantially expanding primary



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4+
school enrollments and improving equal opportunity for education. It provides
technical and material assistance to the Rural Education Bureau responsible
for the execution of the reform of primary education as well as for teacher
training. Project implementation is satisfactory despite a chronic shortage
of cement. Twenty-one out of 100 primary schools are under corastlcuti:ton and
at various stages of completion.  The construction of a printshop has been
completed.
Credit No. 731-BU      Developmeint Ratln croj-i: US$3.4 million of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 27, 1978
Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
The project aims at providing funds for investment in medium size
productive entreprises and technical assistance to the National Economic
Development Bank (BNDE). Project execution is slow as a result of limited
activities of Burundi's industrial sector (only one sub-project, the financing
of the purchase of trucks for a Government/private owned trucking company
"INTRACO" has been approved). The newly established Industrial Development
Unit of BNDE which is to promote and appraise industrial projects has (not yet
been fully staffed because of the difficulty of finding suitable experts.
Credit No. 773-BU      Second Highway Project; US$14.0 million oF
March 29 1978- Effective Date: July 27, 1978
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This project provides for the construction of the Bujumbura-Rugombo
road (65 km), improvement of roads and bridges, technical assistance and
procurement of maintenance equipment. Project implementation is well under-
way and disbursement has thus far been faster than anticipated at appraisal.
The main road construction has started. However, the recent hostilities in
neighboring countries, which are CaSi,dg transportation problems resulting
in shortages of fuel, cement and steel, are slowing down project execution.
Supervision consultants for the road construction and consultants for
engineering (road and bridge improvement) have been selected. Consultants
providing technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works, Equipment and
Housing are in post.  Two mechanized units have been set up and have started
the road improvement program.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BURUNDI
FORESTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:             about 6 months
(b)  Preparation by:                            Government with IDA assistance
(c)  Preparation mission:                       March 1978
(d)  Appraisal mission:                         June/July 1978
(e)  Negotiations:                              April 16-20, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             August 1979
Section II: Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions of the Pro-ject
-    Before initiating the planting programs of the Mageyo Eucalyptus
and Vyanda Pine plantations the details of these prorams will
be submitted to IDA for approval (para. 38).
-    Submission of an annual report on progress with the forestry
training program and periodic discussions with IDA on its execution
(para. 39).
-    Government accepts the principle that charges for all forest
products regulated by the Government reflect production costs and
will gradually introduce a charge system for all forest products
regulated by the Government adequate to cover gradually their
full production costs (para. 45).
-    Farmers will be charged to the extent feasible, the full cost
of seedlings produced by rural nurseries and government will
consult IDA periodically on the level of these charges
(para. 46).



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Government will ensure that stumpage rates charged for wood
produced by the plantations will be sufficient to recover the
investment, operation and maintenance cost of the plantations
(para. 47).
Government will consult with IDA on the marketing and pricing
policies for the future exploitation of the Mageyo and Vyanda
plantations (para. 47).
additional conditions of effectiveness of the IDA Credit
Agreement are: (i) that a revolving fund has been established
with an initial deposit of at least US$200,000 equivalent; (ii)
that all key project staff have been appointed; and (iii) that
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the FAC and
UNDP Grant Agreements and of the EEC Special Action Credit
Agreement - other than the effectiveness of the IDA Credit
Agreement - have been fulfilled. An additional condition of
the effectiveness of the EEC Special Action Credit Agreement is
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IDA
Credit Agreement - other than the effectiveness of the EEC
Special Action Credit Agreement - have been fufilled (para. 56).



202o                                                   202 30                                                30'o                                                   3) 30 .m                               nn
BURUNDI                                                                                                                                     h   Oow
FORESTRY PROJECT                                                               R W A N D A
No,onol Cop,tol                      E_,stng FcF-sts                        -
0    Pno-pol Towns                        Pococi Aoos (E-coiypIus)                                                                    4
- oMn-d, Rn&    Poo g PrAo..s (PfYk,tIA                                                                           .JAFA             t3i-</
-- Cnnonon  SoBndor.es             A      Rurl Nurss j DT t-?N
_   _  Prroonoldsecoundorneo                   ActgmPoEDt                             )*V ;oO                   jBll)            K    A     X
z-3C                     -   -   Intesnotionol Bo-nd-nes               Proioors Undo, S.dyp                I    .                              _                                                                   23C
R.   Rleon                       A   .Isobu P,Iot Pcooec                    s! -t                              tj   
Belgium0 oSpdi Arobi              C,            Ki\rondn                           '   !
*0^2_                                                                             ii N T ECU GRA      3         BU SON I !         ~     -/7;0~ TI A
S      @  ;    R U G        0 MI                                                                                             BUA                             /     b
C>\ <)  -                                                                      :   J(2lCMBI-t*4N A   A                 4'x  oz 
'1%                            B~~~~~~~~USIG Al~~
(S$ ' ' -  0             1             S , ,      o,                   j           }  ;                                         lA
o.b                                     ,     ,, SLIT EN   t> oA   t'k.    T  *                                                                            . 
     KSHA     ' t*(            Kno ;         K       1'NG    '     O ),   0                /                    0                   0 )0
H: 0                                               C i/ t M  UG AN I ' Al
-f\\ ; B U R A M B A I                                                                                          t
, lN Y  E                                                                                                                                                  GK     I's   G   - R A
VG  2 . n ,, iB                                     RETIV t   R  V 5  2A U'tt/
KI                                                                                                                                        U ;  R   U   T  roo
'                      w         D       Z \ 0              '    B  U    K TB    A                                                         'PAN  2E  GS
AK   U~~~~~~~~~O ~
I                                   2'30                        S Opn                    3000 -\_ t             '310
: l w . ? S + X ' f X :S X,
.~~~~~~MT A                                                      V                      B -S',d
29|00 >  2~~~~~~~~~~~P                                            T P 3   /tsO 3VO9r  ,:2 =1J f'F2



