Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY  FILE   COPy
Report No. 2376-hU
BURUNDI
FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 8, 1979
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =    Burundi Francs (FBu)
US$1.00               =    FBu 90
FBU 1                      US$0.011
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                          =    British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)     3                         3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (m )                   =    35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha) = 100 ares            =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2             =    0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )             =    0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                      =    2.20 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                          =    0.26 U.S. gallon (gal)
0.22 Imperial gallon (imp. gal)
1 ton (metric ton)                   =    2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
CFTF      -   Centre Forestier Tropical Francais (French Tropical Forest
Center)
FAC       -   Fonds d'aide et de cooperation (France) (French Aid and Co-
operation Fund)
FED       -   Fonds europeen de developpement (European Development Fund)
(or EDF)
ISABU     -   Institut des sciences agronomiques du Burundi (Burundi
Institute of Agronomy)
MAI       -   Mean Annual Increment (Volume increment p.a.)
OCIBU     -   Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi -
Agency for Industrial Crop Development of Burundi
ONATOUR   -   Office National de la Tourbe - National Peat Development Agency
SCM or    -   Stacked Cubic Meter (equivalent to approximately 0.7 cubic
Stere          meter solid)
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Burundi  : January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF THE FORESTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Is   BACKGROUND .......................             .......................       1
A.  Project Background ..................................                   1
B.  The Agricultural Sector ..................          ...1........ 
C. Government Services . ...............                                    5
II.    THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR .................................                   7
III.    THE PROJECT .......          ......................................    15
A.  General Description ......    ........           ...............       15
B.  The Project Areas              ...................................     16
C.  Detailed Features ......... . . . . .  ..........     ........................ .  16
D.  Project Costs .......           ................................       19
E.  Financing . **. .................. ......*.....*......                 20
F.  Procurement ................. o  .......................               21
G.  Disbursement  . ......... ...... .. *  .......... . .*  .......    21
H.  Accounts and Audit .......................................    22
I.  Environmental Impact ......             ..........................    22
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                     ... ..                       23
A.  Project Organization and Staffing.                                     23
B. Project Implementation Schedule    .                  .25
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation.                     . ...........          25
V.    TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS            ........................       26
VI.    GOVERNMENT BENEFITS ........  ...................... ..... ....... .    31
VII.    MARKETS AND PRICES ......................................    32
VIII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............................    34
IX.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED ON LOAN CONDITIONS  ..                 37
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Burundi in
June-July, 1978, composed of K. Marshall and N. Brouard (IDA).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Supporting Tables and Charts
Table 1                         Summary of Project Costs
Table 2                        Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Table 3                        Project Implementation Schedule
Table 4                        Government Project-Related Cash Flow
Table 5                        Economic Rate of Return Analysis
Table 6                        Project Financing Plan
Chart 1                        Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and
Rural Development
Chart 2                        Proposed Project Organization Chart
Material Available in Project File
Maps
Burundi Forestry Project IBRD 13869



BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF THE FORESTRY PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The first formal discussions of a possible forestry project to
be financed by the World Bank Group were held in Burundi during 1976. The
Project was formally identified in 1977, and was prepared in Burundi during
1978, with assistance from an IDA preparation mission. This report is based
on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited Burundi in June-
July 1978, composed of K. Marshall and N. R. Brouard (IDA). There were no
substantial changes in the Project proposal between preparation and appraisal.
1.02      This would be the fourth IDA Credit to Burundi for an agricultural
project. Two coffee development projects have aimed at improving services
for coffee production and marketing; implementation has been quite satisfac-
tory, and the second project should be completed in late 1980. A third
coffee project is currently under preparation. A fisheries development
project was approved in 1976; it has faced serious start-up problems, prin-
cipally related to management difficulties, but performance has improved
in recent months. An integrated development project for central Burundi,
aimed at increasing food crop production and improving services to farmers,
is also being prepared.
B. The Agricultural Sector
General
1.03      Burundi is a small, land-locked country, situaWed in Central Africa
on the Zaire/Nile divide. Total area is about 27,800 km , and the population
of almost four million 2is increasing at about 2% per year. The population
density of over 140/km is the highest in continental Africa, after that of
Rwanda. Burundi is bounded by Rwanda to the north, Zaire to the west, and
Tanzania to the south and east. The nearest major seaports are over 800 km
away; exports and imports are normally shipped by boat to Kigoma (Tanzania) on
Lake Tanganyika, and thence by rail to Dar-es-Salaam. Bujumbura (population
about 175,000 persons) is the only major urban center, and an estimated 95%
of the population live in the rural areas; there, popula5ion is quite unevenly
diitributed, with densities ranging from over 300 per km to less than 50 per
km . Burundi is one of the 25 "least developed nations", with per capita GNP
estimated at US$120 in 1976. Real GNP growth has in the past decade barely
kept pace with population increase, and the average standard of living in
the rural areas has probably declined. Income distribution is quite skewed
between the urban and rural areas, and among geographic regions; average
per capita GNP in rural areas is estimated at US$45-50.



2 
1.04      Burundi is generally a mountainous country; altitudes vary from
leas than 800 m at Lake Tanganyika to a little over 2,500 m within a distance
of under 50 km. Similarly, average annual rainfall ranges from less than
800 mm in the Rusizi plain (Imbo) in the northwest to over 2,000 mm in the
mountains (Mugamba) and drops again to 1,000-1,300 mm towards the north
(Rweru), south (Bututsi) and east (Xo8so). Topography, apart from the flat
Rusizl plain, consists of hills and more or less steep slopes, with some
plateau areas in the center and east. Burundi has four principal geographic
regions. (a) the rift valley plain, comprising the Rusizi Valley and the
coastal region along Lake Tanganyika; altitude is generally below 1,000 m
and rainfall is 750-1000 mm a year; (b) the Zaire/Nile divide, a mountain
chain rising sharply from the plain to an average altitude of 2,400 m;
(c) the central plateau region, where most of the population is concentrated;
altitudes are 1,600-2,100 m, rainfall over 2,000 mm a year; and (d) the
savannahs of the north and east, where altitudes are below 1,600 m; this
region is drier and less densely populated, in large part because of tsetse
fly infestation. Of Burundi's total land area, about 37% is considered
arable, and virtually all of this land is under crops; 23% is pasture land,
3% is forest, and 37% is classified as "other" (urban, lakes and rivers, and
wasteland).
1.05      Agriculture dominates Burundi's economy and employs about 90% of
the total population. It contributed about 58% of GDP in 1977; of this, 8%
was from cash crops and 50% from the subsistence sector. The average annual
total value of merchandise exports in 1974/76 was US$40 million, of which
coffee (the principal cash crop) represented 86%, cotton 4%, skins 3% and tea
2%. The average annual total value of imports for the same period was US$70
million, of which food and beverages accounted for about 13%. Burundi's
agricultural economy is almost exclusively comprised of smallholders, using
traditional production techniques; there are very few large farms and planta-
tions and commercial production is very limited. Average farm size for the
estimated 750,000 farm families is about one hectare, and farming techniques
are based on hand labor, using the most rudimentary farm equipment - the hoe,
mattock and knife. Virtually no transport equipment is used. The landless
population is small, and use of hired labor quite rare. Nevertheless,
size of land holdings appears to be somewhat skewed; in one province surveyed,
21% of farm families owned less than 1 hectare, 80% less than 1.5 hectares,
and 10% more than two hectares. Use of modern techniques is restricted to
cash crops, and to date there have been virtually no services or provision of
inputs for food crops. Non-agricultural services in rural areas are poor;
schools and health centers are inadequate and lack staff and facilities, and
although the road network is relatively well developed, the population tends
to live in scattered farmsteads and there is no well developed public trans-
portation system.
Land Tenure
1.06      By law, all land in Burundi belongs to the Government, and any un-
occupied and unutilized land can be used by the Government for any purpose.
In practice, however, virtually all land (about 98%) is governed by a combina-
tion of traditional land law and modern regulations; about 1-2% of all land



- 3 -
is formally registered, with modern title deeds. Traditional land rights
grant individual usufruct rights to continuously cultivated land, while all
pasture land is communally held. Cultivated land can be passed on to heirs
and is reportedly sold on occasion within the rural community for cash. When
the Government expropriates cultivated land, compensation must be paid; the
Government can, however, take over other land, including pasture, without
compensation to the local community.
Agricultural Production
1.07      Major Crops.  Owing to its diverse eco-climatic conditions which
result from altitude and rainfall variations, Burundi is well suited for
production of a wide range of crops.  At lower elevations, cotton, rice,
tobacco, sugarcane, groundnuts, oil palm, Robusta coffee, beans and maize are
grown, while tea, potatoes, wheat and barley are produced at higher elevations.
The distribution of rainfall between two main rainy seasons allows two har-
vests a year in most places. About 90% of cultivated land is under food
crops, with over 25% of this under bananas (a large part of which is used for
beer production). In 1977, beans and manioc occupied about 500,000 ha,
with maize and sweet potatoes the other principal crops. Yields of all crops
are low. The principal cash crops are coffee, tea, and cotton. About half of
all farmers grow coffee, with a total of about 27,000 ha cultivated; produc-
tion was estimated at about 21,000 tons in 1976. Production of vegetables,
fruits, tobacco, cinchona and honey also represents a source of cash income
for farmers.
1.08      Livestock.  There are an estimated 760,000 cattle in Burundi and
about one million sheep and goats; poultry is also kept in many regions.
About 25% of farmers own some livestock. Although livestock plays a vital
role in Burundi's traditional economy and social structure, Burundi has yet
to define a sound beef or dairy development strategy. Pastures are sererely
over-stocked in most regions; the density of cattle is about 15 per km
nationwide, but in some areas, there are about 4 animal units per hectare, as
opposed to an optimum carrying rate of at most one per hectare. Production
techniques with rare exceptions remain strictly traditional, and disease
control programs are still relatively limited; grazing control is virtually
unknown and supplementary minerals are very rarely given. Most cattle are
herded, however, and goats and sheep are normally tethered because pastures
are close to cultivated areas. Beyond this, there is virtually no integration
between crops and livestock. Repeated burning and overgrazing have led to a
rapid deterioration of both the soil and the quality of pastures. The
presence of too many old cattle is a further problem. The results are low
technical coefficients and low productivity, and the size of the herd is
*         declining.  Milk production is estimated at 55 million liters a year, and
meat production at 10,000 tons carcass weight.
1.09      Other agriculturil resources include fisheries and forestry.
Burundi has about 2,000 km of territorial waters in Lake Tanganyika and
it is from there that most fish production comes. In 1976 this production
was estimated at about 20,000 tons; recent research has suggested that
potential yields are significantly higher, and fisheries development pro-
grams are underway. On Lake Tanganyika, industrial purse seine units, most
of them owned by expatriates, account for about 45% of production, and a



-4-
large group of artisanal fishermen use simple but improved fishing techniques.
Fish is also caught in the rivers of the country and on Lakes Cohoha and Rweru
in the north.   Maximum production from the northern lakes has been about
1,000 tons for any one year; there is some potential for increasing production
there and for development of fish ponds. Forestry is described in Chapter II.
Marketing. Processing and Prices
1.10      Only an estimated 10% of total food crop production is marketed
through commercial channels.  Local markets are entirely in private hands,
market facilities are limited, and prices are determined by supply and
demand; there tend, therefore, to be significant seasonal fluctuations in
price levels. Burundi's relatively small size and the well-developed road
system to some extent mitigate marketing difficulties, and farmers seldom
have serious difficulties in selling surplus production to traders. Foodcrop
marketing is principally restricted by the relatively small demand from towns
and cities, by the poorly developed storage system, and by the limited size
of surplus production. The most commonly traded food commodity is probably
banana beer, which is normally sold for cash within farming communities. In
the cities the Government makes an effort to control prices of some goods of
primary necessity, but the most effective controls are exercised where imported
goods are concerned - notably bread and oil. Marketing networks for cash
crops are dominated by the major parastatal institutions (para. 1.14) which
are responsible for production (including provision of extension services and
inputs), marketing and processing; coffee, tea and cotton are the principal
crops concerned. These prices are fixed by the Government. Marketing and
prices for livestock products and fish are, like food crops, determined by
private market factors except for fish marketed through the parastatal fish-
eries development company. Marketing of wood products is discussed below
(para. 2.07).
Development Problems and Government Plans
1.11      After a decade of economic stagnation and social strife, the major
challenge for Burundi is to increase the income levels of its rural popula-
tion through increased agricultural production. The problems facing Burundi's
agriculture are serious. Although the country has areas with fertile soils
and favorable climate, the potential for agricultural development is limited
both by institutional and policy constraints and by the pressure on land
resources from the growing population. Institutions dealing with agriculture
are generally weak, and are very short of trained staff, leading to a heavy
reliance on expatriate assistance. Pressure on land is compounded by tradi-
tional cultivation methods which require fallow periods and crop rotation
since no industrial fertilizers are used. The competition for land has led to
overgrazing, overcropping and the exploitation of marginal or unsuitable land.
The country's forest resources have been seriously depleted as a result of the
ever increasing demand for fuelwood and timber (see para 2.01). The rural
population is scattered widely in small settlements; access to markets and
provision of agricultural services is therefore relatively difficult consider-
ing Burundi's small size and the existence of quite a dense road network. In
summary, the problems of rural development for Burundi are complex and the
Government faces a difficult task in elaborating an effective strategy for
development.



- 5 -
1.12      A new Government strategy to achieve social justice, ethnic recon-
ciliation and improved living conditions in the rural areas is presented in
the Five Year Development Plan for 1978-82. It proposes the reorganization
of Government around a strengthened planning mechanism and includes a series
of new economic and social policies: (a) placing emphasis on agricultural
production to increase food supplies for the fast-growing population; (b)
increasing the rate of economic growth to provide greater employment oppor-
tunities and income to the poorest segments of the population; (c) raising the
investment rate significantly; (d) giving the Government a more active role in
mobilizing financial and manpower resources, including participation in mixed
enterprises in the commercial and productive sectors; and (e) fostering
decentralization of economic and social activity away from the capital city
and balanced growth through the creation of development poles, settlement of
the farming population in villages, and migration to less densely populated
areas. For agriculture, the emphasis is on increasing productivity in view of
land constraints; new land gained for cultivation will be destined primarily
for food crop production. Special attention is given to rural development
projects and reforestation. Diversification of exports is to be pursued by
developing crops other than coffee, (e.g. tea, cotton, sugarcane and cinchona).
The modernization of the transport sector is to facilitate input supplies to
the rural sector and the evacuation of agricultural production. The creation
of cooperatives and regional development corporations will be encouraged to
improve extension services and agricultural credit. The volume of investment
during the plan period is to be doubled in real terms as compared to that of
the previous plan. About 22% of total investment is to be allocated directly
to the agricultural sector and an additional 35% to related infrastructure
such as rural housing, water supply, electricity, education and roads; the
rural areas are thus expected to benefit from about 57% of total investment.
At a Round Table Conference in February, 1978, convened to present the new
Development Plan and coordinate foreign aid, the Government proposed to
organize a working group on agriculture to discuss the sector's major problems
and measures to resolve them. The Bank Group is currently supporting this
initiative.
C. Government Services
1.13      Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (Chart
1). The ministry is responsible for direction and coordination of all
activities in the agricultural sector. The Minister is assisted by two
Secretaries of State, one responsible for food and agriculture, and the
other for rural development. The Ministry employs about 2,000 persons; of
these about 800 are considered as extension staff. The Secretary of State
for food and agriculture has two directorates general, for agriculture and
for livestock respectively. The Director General of agriculture is respon-
sible for four departments: agronomy, rural works and hydro-meteorology,
waters and forests, and land tenure and surveys. The organization of the
department of Waters and Forests ("Eaux et Forests") is described below



-6-
(para. 2.10). The department of Rural Works ("Genie Rural") is currently
developing a mechanical service with appropriate equipment for soil prepara-
tion and road works. Agricultural services are regionalized at the provincial
level, separately for each department, and staff of most departments are also
posted to the arrondissement level (para. 1.18). The ministry also oversees
all agricultural research and training activities.
1.14      Parastatal Institutions.  The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
and Rural Development oversees the activities of five principal parastatal
agencies. Three of these are crop specific, dealing with the three main export
crops, coffee, tea, and cotton. OCIBU (Office des Cultures Industrielles du
Burundi) which is responsible for coffee, is the largest and most important.
In addition, there are regional development authorities for the Imbo region
and for fisheries development.
1.15      Research.  The Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi (ISABU),
a semi-autonomous agency under the Ministry of Agriculture, is responsible for
all agricultural research. ISABU is heavily dependent on expatriate assis-
tance, and all of its professional staff are foreigners. ISABU's previous
work has focused on the key cash crops (coffee, cotton, tea); it has been
conducted through a network of experimental stations in the key agricultural
sub-regions. Research on forestry has been relatively limited in the past,
although basic work on a number of species provides useful information in
support of proposed forestry developments. There is pressing need for addi-
tional agricultural research particularly on food crop production. In addi-
tion, research is required in such areas as Burundi's energy use and needs
and applied trials of more efficient charcoal production techniques. Lack of
manpower and equipment has been a severe constraint on all research activities
in the past.
1.16      Training.  There are three agricultural training institutions in
Burundi, and the university has a small, very new agriculture department. The
Institut Technique Agricole du Burundi (ITAB) offers a four-year course for
agronomists (secondary level) at Gitega and between 10 and 15 students com-
pleted the course over each of the last 3 years; this outturn is expected
to increase to 30 graduates in 1978/79. The Ecole Professionnelle Agricole
(post primary) at Karuzi trains field assistants ("moniteurs"), and the two-
year course has an average outturn of 25 students per year. A one-year train-
ing course for field assistants is provided at Rutegama Vocational School.
Virtually the total outturn from these three institutions is employed by the
Ministry of Agriculture, but it is not sufficient to meet the country's need
for manpower trained in agriculture. Further, the training offered is not
fully adapted to Burundi's needs, as courses tend to be quite theoretical with
little practical application. Training offered in certain specific areas,
notably forestry, is minimal.
1.17      Agricultural Credit.  The Savings and Credit system of Burundi
consists of the Central Bank (Banque de la Republique du Burundi), three
commercial banks (Banque de Credit de Bujumbura, Banque Commerciale du



Burundi, and Banque Belgo-Africaine), all largely foreign-owned, the develop-
ment bank (Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique - BNDE), the
Government-owned Savings Association, the Postal Checking System and the
Social Security Fund. Agricultural credit is not well developed. The
commercial banks finance coffee exports and seasonal working capital needs
of traders in agricultural commodities, but do not extend credit to farmers.
Institutional credit is virtually non-existent in the rural areas; the only
exception is limited funds to smallholders which have been lent by paras-
tatal organizations, mainly with the assistance of aid programs. Informal
credit is also scarce in rural areas. BNDE is the only source of medium and
long term agricultural credit in Burundi. Only about 1% of its outstanding
loan portfolio is for direct agricultural production activities. BNDE was
established in 1967; the Government owns 45% of the equity capital, bilateral
aid agencies, 33%, and private investors, 22%. The Burundi Government plans
to engage consultants to analyze agricultural credit needs and to propose a
rural credit development program; IDA financing for this study has been
requested.
1.18      Local Administration.  Burundi is subdivided for purposes of
territorial administration into 8 provinces, 18 arrondissements (2-3 per
province) and 79 communes; communes are further sub-divided into zones and
collines (or hills) which are the smallest administrative unit. The Mini-
stry of Interior has principal responsibility for local administration and
works through its officials posted at each level: governors of provinces,
commissaires d'arrondissements, administrateurs des communes, and chefs de
zones. These officials coordinate the work of staff of technical ministries
who are posted by most departments at province, arrondissement and commune
level; for agriculture, an agronomist (university level training) is in
charge of the agricultural staff of each province, and all services are
organized also at "arrondissement" and communal levels, although extension
workers per commune are normally limited in number and have virtually no
financial or logistic support. The local administrative system relies on
the central government budget, except that there are very small budgets for
the communes which essentially complement basic services provided by the
central government. Representative local government is restricted to
communal councils which serve a largely advisory function. All Burundi
citizens are required to work for one day each week on projects of national
interest; this community labor ("travaux communautaires") is normally
organized by the provincial, "arrondissement", and communal authorities.
II. THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
General
2.01      Burundi's forest resources occupy about 3% of the country's
total area and are dwindling rapidly. Although data on the rate of ex-
ploitation of forests and on wood consumption are poor, it is nevertheless
clear that forests, both natural and man-made, are being cut down far more
rapidly than they are being replaced, and that current wood production is



far below the population's minimal requirements for fuelwood and building
timber. Forestry development has not been accorded a high priority in the
past, and protection and planting programs in the years since Independence
have been small and relatively ineffective. Productivity of forests is low,
in part because of weak forest services and the absence of trained staff;
even today, Burundi does not have a single national who is a trained fore-
ster. The scarcity of wood is directly related to food crop production.
The rural population is increasingly using agricultural residues to meet
their fuel needs, when wood is not available. Maize, manioc and sorghum
stalks, bean and pea hulls, and dried dung are all burnt instead of being
returned to the land. This reduces soil fertility and crop yields which
in turn increases pressure on land and leads to shortened fallow periods,
creating a cycle of degradation and falling production. The urban popula-
tion is also directly affected by the wood shortage, as prices of charcoal
increase rapidly and periodic shortages occur; imported metal increasingly
substitutes for wood in all aspects of construction. The prognosis for the
near future is a speedy aggravation of these problems, with expected in-
creases in population and the reduction in total forested area, followed by
a severe crisis, when charcoal and wood will simply no longer be available;
it is the poorest segments of the population who will suffer the brunt of
increasing prices and ultimate scarcity. Ecologists are deeply concerned
about the likely consequences of the disappearance of forests for Burundi's
soil erosion problems, which are already serious, and the possible long-term
threat to the stability of the region's overall environment. Some specialists
forecast that Burundi's forests will disappear entirely in less than a decade;
recently, however, there has been a realization of the gravity of the present
situation, and the Government now accords high priority to the development of
forest resources and services.
Forest Resources
2.02      The total area of forests, woodland savannah and tree plantations
in Burundi represents a maximum of 90,000 ha, or about 3% of the country's
total area. Areas of natural forest include the remnants of dense montane
tropical forest along the Zaire/Nile crestline in the north-west (about 40,000
ha), small areas of savannah woodland (15-20,000 ha) in the south, and forest
galleries along water courses and in steep gorges, making a total area of
approximately 60,000 ha. In addition, it is estimated that there are some
25,000 ha of forest plantations, mainly Eucalyptus, as well as roadside trees
and small woodlots. Ownership of Burundi's forest resources falls into four
categories: forests and plantations owned by the government, plantations
owned by the communes, plantations owned by religious communities and
similar bodies, and privately owned plantations. Ownership rights are in
many instances clouded. For example, Eucalyptus plantations planted by the
colonial administration were transferred to the communes at Independence;
records on these plantations are imprecise, however, leading to confusion on
rights to utilize trees and responsibilities for maintenance.
Production and Consumption
2.03      Reliable information on Burundi's wood production and consumption
is very limited, and analyses of past trends and projections are based in



- 9 -
large part on extrapolation from a few surveys and on comparison with inter-
national statistics. Data are poor because most wood is cut and used by the
rural population, with no controls exercised by the Government; wood marketed
for commercial use is theoretically regulated by the Government but a large
part escapes official controls. All data and extrapolation, however, support
the basic conclusions that demand for wood far outstrips supply, and that
forest resources are being used up far more rapidly than they are being re-
placed. Further, it is clear that Burundi's scattered forest resources,
including the plantations, give relatively low yields, and these appear
to be declining. The natural forest has been cut illegally and areas that
should have been preserved for ecological reasons have disappeared; any
further reduction of areas under natural forest poses a severe threat to
the environment.
2.04      Wood Exports and Imports:  At present only very small quantities
of wood and wood products are imported into Burundi. This is largely because
no well-organized suppliers exist within a practical distance from Bujumbura,
and costs of imported wood are very high. Official statistics indicate that
the total for all imports of wood and wood-derived products represented only
about 0.3% of the valu  of all imports in 1976. The tea industry imports
approximately 60,000 m of plywood for tea chests annually. Other significant
wood imports were reported as 68.5 tons of sawn timber, 13.9 tons of round
wood, and 192 tons of plywood and particle board, for a total value of about
FBu 20 million (US$220,000). While there may be some unofficial wood imports,
quantities are also probably very small. Considerable quantities of metal,
however, are imported and substitute for wood in the modern construction
sector. Metal imports represented about 6% of the value of imports in 1977,
pulp and paper products about 2%, and petroleum products about 8%. Burundi
exports virtually no wood or wood products. There is some potential for
imports of construction timber or wood products from Tanzania, Kenya and
Zaire; this might assist Burundi in meeting short term critical wood and fuel
requirements. Costs of imported wood products would, however, be high and it
seems unlikely that long-term requirements could be met through imports.
Petroleum product imports meet a large part of Burundi's energy needs and are
likely to increase in the future.
2.05      Wood utilization is relatively small for a country with Burundi's
population and is decreasing as the area under forests shrinks.  The Innual
volume increment of the natural forests is estimated at less than 31 m /ha
and the average annual increment of plantations is less than 10 m /ha,
Annual forest utilization is currently estimated at about 1 million m
(which is a conservative estimate); this level will, if continued, result in
the rapid decrease of forest resources, as it significantly exceeds the
productive capacity of existing forests and plantations.
2.06      Wood consumption figures are not known accurately; it is likely
that the av rage annual wood consumption per capita is currentl! not less
than 0.25 m  a year, although 3some estimates are as high as 1 m  per capita
a year. The figure of 0.25 m a year is consistent with estimates of pro-
duction cited above; it is relatively low compared with even conservative



- 10 -
theoretical estimates of needs, because part of fuel needs is being met by
burning agricultural residues, dung, grass and twigs; it seems unlikely,
however, that it could be significantly lower. A high proportion of wood
consumption is for fuel, especially in the rural areas. Some pole wood and
timber are used, but not in quantities comparable to fuelwood. The polewood
is used extensively outside the towns for construction and repair of dwellings.
Sawn timber, when available, is used for construction, furniture manufacture,
boat-building, and other uses. Mobiruldi, the largest of Bujumburl's five
furniture factories, uses about 200 m of local Cypress and 100 m of
indigenous woods per year. The other furniture factories' consumption is
negligible since they mostly use imported metal to make furniture. In
addition, some missions have small wood working plants. The Ministry of
Agricilture's  estimates sf 1976 wood sales were as follows:  sawn timber-
926 m ; firewood-60,000 m ; poles-6,490 units; and charcoal-15,000 m
equivalent. These figures certainly underestimate actual consumption but
reflect well Burundi's low level of wood consumption; By comparison, Kenya's
estimated 1980 saws timber requirements are 210,000 m , while Zambia's
would be 321,000 m and 1980 fuelwood demand for Zambia is estimated at
5 million m .
Marketing and Prices
2.07      Firewood accounts for the bulk of wood consumed in Burundi and it
is usually cut directly by consumers in the rural areas, as is pole wood for
construction; no payment or permit is involved, with rare exceptions. A small
proportion of wood utilized is exploited and marketed through commercial
channels. Most of the trade in wood and wood-derived products centers on the
Bujumbura market. The most important wood commodity in terms of value is
charcoal, which is the preferred source of fuel for most of Bujumbura's popu-
lation. Charcoal is normally produced and marketed by small-scale entrepre-
neurs. Wood is cut and charcoal produced in situ; exclusively traditional
production techniques are employed (burning in earthen pits), and they are
highly inefficient - yields of charcoal from wood are at most 15% and
probably less than 10%.  A rough estimate of Bujumbura's charcoal co 5sump-
tion is 7,000 tons a year, or equivalent to about 90,000 - 100,000 m
wood equivalent. Until recently, charcoal was readily available; prices
were reasonable and fairly stable. In the past few years, however, the
general scarcity of wood has resulted in periodic shortages of charcoal,
with sharply increasing prices. The Government, concerned by illegal forest
cutting and the reduction in forest area, has restricted charcoal production
in many areas. Thus, charcoal is coming from increasingly afar, with
consequent increases in prices. In Bujumbura, there are six principal
charcoal wholesale dealers who buy from suppliers in rural areas; charcoal
is retailed at all the principal city markets. Wood for fire-wood and poles
is normally marketed by small entrepreneurs, who employ woodcutters. If
trees are on government or communal land, a cutting permit and payment of a
communal tax aSe normally required. Firewood is stacked into steres
(1 stere = 1 m stacked, not solid) when marketed. Poles are classified as
small, medium or large if they are marketed. Timber logs are normally



- 11 -
pit-sawn by skilled sawyers. Indigenous species are only cut and converted
(pit-sawn) by the Regie des Bois (para 2.11) whereas individual cutting
permits are issued for plantation timber. Burundi's only "modern" process-
ing equipment is an old portable band-sawmill at Bugarama; this mill breaks
down frequently due to inadequate supervision, poor operation and lack of
spare parts. Its 3annual production is only a small fraction of its rated
capacity of 500 m p.a. It processes mostly Cypress thinnings from trees
15-20 years old. Pit-sawing is also resorted to at Bugarama, especially
when the sawmill breaks down.  The pit saw ers receive  FBu 100 per board,
and approximately 30-35 3boards make up 1 m . Cypress and Grevillea boards
are sold at FBu 7,090/m  in situ.  As the average 5ecovery rate is only
about 35% (i.e. 1 m of round woof produces 0.35 m sawn), and the average
cost of conversion is FBu 3,000/m (or even slightly more), exclusive of the
cost of felling and extraction, the standing value of the timber is virtually
negative in the current permit and fee structure (para 2.08).
2.08      At present, the pricing of wood and wood products in Burundi is
somewhat chaotic. The Government has not yet elaborated a coherent policy
on pricing of forest products, but is taking steps to articulate and imple-
ment one. The problem is complex. For trees on "private land", including
all trees planted by farmers, no tax or payment is involved, and by tradi-
tion farmers gather and cut wood wherever it is available. In principle,
utilization of areas of natural forest, all Government plantations, and
communal plantations is strictly regulated, and either a permit fee or a
communal tax is payable. In practice, it is difficult, if not impossible,
for the Government to control cutting of trees and collect fees; manpower
of the forest department is scarce, and plantations are widely scattered,
with many in such poor condition that they scarcely warrant a control
effort. Illegal cutting of forest is widespread, and one minister stated
that it could be stopped only by posting a guard by each tree. The situa-
tion is complicated by confusion of records, so that ownership of many small
plantations and tree stands is uncertain. The level of permit fees is
clearly too low, yet the Government hesitates to increase rates in the fear
that it would increase illegal speculation. Prices of wood and wood pro-
ducts thus do not reflect the real value of wood, since permit fees for
charcoal production and pit sawing amount to a give-away program. Pricing
issues are further discussed below.
2.09      Prices of wood and wood products vary widely and are governed
largely by market factors. Charcoal prices a few years ago were about
FBu 250 (US$2.78) for a 40 kg bag, but by July 1978 had increased to 500
FBu/bag (US$5.56). It seems likely that prices will climb still higher
because of wood scarcity. Charges for forest exploitation permits in
mid-1978 were as follows: (i) charcoal: FBu 20/bag of approximately 40 kg,
(ii) firewood: FBu 200/stere; (iii) poles: these are classified as small,
medium or large according to girth and sell for FBu 15, 60 and 100 per piece
respectively, (iv) timber; cutting permits are no longer issued for natural
forests and all timber which is legally sawn comes from plantations. Trees
are classified by girth and prices range from FBu 120 for a tree of 60-69 cm



- 12 -
to FBu 1,750 for a tree 150 cm or more in girth.  A small communal tax is
charged for communal plantations. Although the Forestry Department employs
an officer ("Controleur du Bois") to check on all wood and wood-derived
products entering Bujumbura and stored and traded there (to ensure that
cutting was legal and applicable permits and taxes have been paid), it is
not possible for him to do more than carry out spot checks of permits. The
possibilities for fraud are very great, effective control is virtually im-
possible, and prices in the urban markets follow the law of supply and demand.
The selling price for poles is generally reasonable; a piece for which the
cutting permit rate was FBu 60 would retail at about FBu 80 (reflecting in all
likelihood the fact that no permit fee is paid in most instances). Similarly
with timber, a piece of 0.03 m retails for FBu 250-300, which is reasonable
when one considers the cost of sawing and transport.
Forestry Services
2.10      The Forestry Department is part of the Ministry of Agriculture, Live-
stock and Rural Development. The Director of Forestry deals with Fisheries
and Wildlife as well as Forestry; he has a Deputy and a Forest Agronomist,
as well as a small administrative supporting staff, and is assisted by two
Belgian advisers. Forestry services are organized at provincial and
"arrondissement" level, with one "agronome forestier" per province and
"assistants forestiers" in the "arrondissements", assisted by a varying number
of lower level staff, the forest "moniteurs" (about 105 in all). Effective-
ness of staff is seriously hampered by lack of transport and supervision. The
Forestry Department budget has been very modest until recently: it used to be
less than FBu 10 million (US$110,000) p.a., plus a small development budget.
However, the development budget increased significantly to FBu 15 million for
state plantations in 1976, 20 million in 1977 and 35 million in 1978. In
addition, the provinces have small forestry budgets of their own for communal
plantations, which are financed by means of communal taxes. Until 1976 new
plantations rarely exceeded 250 ha p.a., but in 1977 they came to 750 ha and
in 1978 the target is 1,500 ha, of which 1,000 ha would be Government and 500
ha communal plantations.
2.11      The "Regie des Bois du Burundi" was created in 1969 to deal with
exploitation and marketing of forest resources. Although designed as a semi-
autonomous, commercial style entity, in reality the Regie is simply a special
account managed by the Director of Waters and Forests, with no separate status
or staff. Revenues from the Bugarama saw mill and from permit fees accrue to
this account.  In theory, the Regie is authorized to deal with exploitation in
government plantations and natural forests, to market and sell forest produce
and to buy and sell forest produce from communal and private plantations.
Given the low level of development of Burundi's forest industries, however,
this role has not been fulfilled to date.
2.12      Training.  The need for trained manpower for forestry is crucial,
as Burundi has at present no official with professional or technical qualifi-
cations in forestry. Existing forest department staff have only general
training in agriculture, with no specialization in forestry, and their numbers
are far from adequate. The lack of manpower is critical at higher and middle
levels. Training in existing agricultural institutions in Burundi includes



- 13 -
only a few hours devoted to forestry. There is an urgent need for the Govern-
ment to designate staff for training overseas and to encourage on-the-job
training in Burundi.
Problems and Future Prospects
2.13      Future Energy Needs and Resources:  Estimates of future wood needs
are still more uncertain than estimates of current consumption, as they are a
function of future population size and income level, future wood availability,
alternative energy sources, and possible wood imports. One estimate of
future fuel needs for the year 2000 in 3terms of wood is 1.3 million tons,
equivalent to about one half million m a year, the production of about
50,000 hectares of plantations. Of the possible known alternatives to wood
as source of energy, only one, peat, seems at present to be a realistic
option. Solar technology is in its infancy and imported petroleum products
would in general be prohibitively expensive for Burundi's rural population.
Under any circumstances, it is clear that there will be a demand for wood
far in excess of current supplies, with demand steadily increasing with the
growth of population. In the circumstances, it is vital that Burundi
initiate a significant planting program to meet critical minimum needs for
fuelwood and sawn timber. The problem is that the theoretical require-
ments for plantations far exceed both the capacity of existing forest
services and suitable, available land resources. Thus, the scale of plant-
ing programs will be determined more by what is possible than by what is
desirable, and it will be essential that Burundi develop an effective
strategy for meeting its short term and long term energy needs. For the
rural population, the ideal solution would be for most rural households to
have their own small woodlots to supply their needs in firewool and  poles.
Assuming that an average rural household requires at least 1 m of wood
annually for its minimum domestic needs (the figure should perhaps be twice
as high), about 1/10th of a hectare (or 160 trees) would be sufficient to
meet these needs more or less indefinitely.
2.14      In the long term, peat offers great promise as an energy source
for Burundi. Burundi has large unutilized peat resources, estimated very
roughly at 500 million tons (dry weight), which would in theory be sufficient
to supply a large part of Burundi's energy needs for many decades. These
resources are found in small deposits in valley bottoms in the mountains of
the Zaire-Nile divide and in larger deposits along the Akagera River valley
and its principal tributary, the Akanyara. Potentially, these peat deposits
could provide a source of fuel for the rural population, an alternative to
wood for fuel needs of larger institutions and urban populations, and a
source of energy for industry and power plants. The Government is currently
seeking to explore possibilities for development of peat resources and
utilization of peat, but these programs are at a very early stage. A
national peat development agency, ONATOUR (Office National de la Tourbe),
was established in 1977 with overall responsibility for peat development.
Currently ONATOUR is mining peat at three sites in the Zaire-Nile divide
mountains; all are small valley bottom sites and manual labor is used
exclusively. Production is about 800 tons (dry) a year, although ONATOUR
hopes to increase this rapidly to 5,000 tons a year and more. Peat is



- 14 -
currently benefitting from a USAID-Catholic Relief Services Project, and has
received support under an IDA technical assistance project. Peat is
utilized by some Bujumbura bakeries, tea factories, schools, and army barracks,
but has not been sold to the general population on any significant scale.
Current prices charged by ONATOUR are roughly comparable to prevailing wood
prices in terms of calorific value, but ONATOUR charges still reflect a sig-
nificant subsidy element. USAID has recently agreed to finance a peat develop-
ment project which includes a national survey of peat resources, pilot programs
for exploration of peat resources, and some trials with production and utiliza-
tion of peat and coke for fuel. Ireland may assist with a survey of peat
resources. ONATOUR hopes also to promote trials with semi-mechanized techniques
and mechanical exploration in the large submerged deposits of the Akagera
Valley.  In summary, peat offers excellent long term potential as an energy
source. However, considerable research and trials will be required before
this potential can be exploited. Peat reserves are poorly known, techniques
of peat mining require trials and refinement, and their ecological impact
must be carefully assessed. In rural areas, the real cost of .peat use
remains to be established and the population will require some time to accept
peat use; farmers have been reluctant so far to use peat even when offered
free of charge because of high smoke production, an acute problem since
traditional dwellings have no chimneys or windows. The technique and
economics of use of peat or peat coke on a commercial scale in cities and for
industries also remain to be established.
2.15      Future Programs and Policies.  The present Burundi Government is
keenly aware of the impending fuel-wood crisis and of the long-term damage to
the ecology that may result from forest destruction. A symbol of their
concern is the proclamation of 1979 as "L'Annee de l'Arbre" (the Year of the
Trees). The Government has rapidly increased the Forest Department's planting
programs throughout the country and is seeking assistance from several
external assistance agencies for large-scale forest protection and planting
programs. The Forestry Department budget and planting programs have been
increasing rapidly over the last two years, but they are still very modest in
relation to-the desired objectives. Forestry programs are impeded by three
major problems: (a) the most serious difficulty is a critical shortage of
Barundi staff with training in forestry. As a result, the Forest Department's
implementation capacity is severely limited, and the Government will be
obliged to rely on expatriate assistance for some years to come; (b) Burundi
is one of Africa's most densely populated regions and land is increasingly
scarce; it is difficult to find unused land, particularly in the vicinity of
the few important consumption centers, suitable for large scale plantations.
Given the scarcity of arable land and Burundi's rapidly increasing population,
new plantations should only be located where crops cannot or should not be
grown; and (c) the Government's policies for forest protection and exploitation
of plantations have been poorly defined; prices for licenses for cutting
timber and fuelwood are so low that wood is effectively given away free of
charge and control of cutting is at best disorganized. The practical problems
of protecting forests and controlling cutting of the hundreds of scattered
plantations are enormous in a country where the rural population has never



- 15 -
paid money for wood and has traditionally scavanged for fuelwood and building
poles wherever they were available. In these circumstances, it will be
essential that the Government continue its efforts to define a coherent set
of policies for the forestry sub-sector, including, inter alia, appropriate
measures to protect natural forests for environmental purposes, more effective
protection and control of plantation resources, concerted effort to plant
trees to meet the needs of urban and rural population for fuelwood and sawn
timber, more rational pricing policies, and an intensive program of staff
training. The proposed Project is specifically intended to assist with
development of such a forestry sub-sector policy, both through its production
channels and through policy measures in the areas of pricing and training.
IDA should continue a dialogue on all issues affecting forestry developments
as a part of Project supervision.
2.16      There are two principal ongoing forestry projects:  the 3,200 ha
FED-financed production-cum-protection IMBO project and the 500 ha FAC-
financed protection KIBIRA project (protection: a "cordon sanitaire" around
the Zaire/Nile crestline natural forest in the north). FAC has provided
support to the Burundi Government in the past for forestry trials, research,
and technical assistance. Two other major forestry projects are being
studied: a 2,000 ha pilot project by ISABU, to be followed by a 12,000 ha
project which would probably be financed by Belgian Cooperation and the Saudi
Fund - both projects involving mainly protection plantations on hill tops.
Several rural or agricultural development projects which are currently
being prepared will also probably contain small forestry components. These
include an integrated development program for the Rumonge area and the
agricultural development centers project being prepared for possible IDA
financing. USAID plans to prepare a forestry development and soil erosion
control program in the future. It will be vital that effective coordination
among these various projects and programs be assured. This should be handled
principally by the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development
and notably the Waters and Forests Department, but the Ministry of Planning
is also aware of the need for assistance with coordination, as some forestry-
related developments fall within the responsibilities of other ministries.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The proposed Project would be the first stage of a long-term
program to develop basic forestry services and plantations supplying fuel-
wood, building poles and timber. It would further the Government's objec-
tives of increasing forest production and establishing long-term production
and marketing policies for the sub-sector (para. 2.15). The proposed Project
would comprise, over five years, the following components.
(a) Establishment of 30 nurseries at the communal level
to produce eucalyptus seedlings for sale to communes
and individuals; nursery staff would provide exten-
sion services to local government units and to farmers;



- 16 -
(b) The development of a 2,000 ha short rotation eucalyptus
plantation at Mageyo (near Bujumbura) to supply charcoal,
firewood and construction poles to the population of
Bujumbura;
(c) The development of 'a 5 ,000 ha pine plantation in Vyanda
(Bururi) to produce saw timber;
(d) Project management and administration services and
in-service training for Barundi counterpart staff;
(e) Technical assistance for Project administration;
(f) Training of Barundi staff for forestry services; and
(g) Studies of Burundi's energy use and needs, trials of
new techniques to produce charcoal, development of new
designs for cooking stoves, monitoring and evaluation
and future project preparation.
3.02      The Department of Water and Forests, Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock, would have principal responsibility for Project implementation.
Within the department, a Project Manager would report to the Director of
Forestry and the Project unit would have direct responsibility for all
forestry developments. The Director General of Agriculture would be
responsible for the training programs and for studies and trials.
B. The Project Areas
3.03      Rural nurseries would be developed in 30 communes out of Burundi's
79; each would require the allocation of a very small site for nursery
establishment. For plantation development, sites were selected which are
sparsely populated and unsuitable for crop development. The Government has
reserved by Cabinet Decree of July, 1978 the land required for the proposed
Eucalyptus and pine plantations. For the Eucalyptus plantation, the Govern-
ment has designated two areas within 50 km of Bujumbura. The first is at
Mageyo, east of Bujumbura and north of the main road to Bugarama; some 11
hills, ranging in area from 400 to 2,000 hectares and totalling 4,000
hectares have been reserved for the purpose, and if, as is presently assumed,
half of this area is suitable for planting, all the fuelwood plantations
would be sited there. Another, less favorable, area has been reserved north
of Bujumbura between Bubanza and the Rusizi River consisting of a few hills
which total 2,000 ha in area and of which about half should be plantable;
this land would probably not be needed, however. Land for the Pine planta-
tion has been reserved at Vyanda in Bururi Province on either side of the
Buta-Kigwena road, south of Bururi and north of the Nyengwe River. A total
area of 29,000 ha has been reserved in order to ensure that 5,000 ha net
would be available for planting (see Map).



- 17 -
C. Detailed Features
Rural Nurseries
3.04      Under the Project, 30 rural nurseries would be established to
produce Eucalyptus seedlings to be planted by the rural population, and to
strengthen forestry services by providing training and advice at the communal
level on the planting and care of young trees. The objective of these
nurseries would be to encourage the rural population to cultivate woodlots
capable of supplying their domestic fuel needs and to support communal
planting programs. At full production each rural nursery would produce about
100,000 seedlings (mostly Eucalyptus) a year, of which about 40% would be
planted communally and 60% would be sold to the public. The total area to be
planted with seedlings produced by nurseries during the Project period is
estimated at more than 5,000 ha. During the first year of the Project
period, nurseries would be established in 10 communes and in 10 more during
the second and third years each, making a total of 30 communes. The communes
selected would be those where the need for wood was most acute and it is
expected that eventually all communes would have such a nursery, provided
under possible future projects. An area of about 10 ares would be required
in each commune; nursery sites chosen would be centrally located with a
perennial supply of water and good topsoil. Seed utilized would be of the
species Eucalyptus grandis for elevations above 1,200 m. and Eucalyptus
tereticornis for other locations; seed would be imported from neighboring
countries, as an important objective of the scheme would be to introduce new
and better seed stock. According to local agricultural conditions and to
farmer demand, nurseries could also produce seedlings of fruit trees and
ornamentals and fodder trees for livestock. Each nursery would require
nurserymen and headmen as well as permanent laborers and a variable number of
casual laborers. This staff would work closely with existing local staff of
the Forestry Department in providing extension advice and services. This
extension service would focus on visits to farmers and other tree growers to
provide advice on all forestry-related matters including, inter alia, siting
of homestead woodlots, planting techniques, and proper exploitation of wood
resources. The principal investment items would be planting materials (seed,
tubes etc), labor for planting, management services for nursery development,
and costs of nursery operation and provision of extension services.
Eucalyptus Fuelwood Plantation
3.05      Under the Project, a short-rotation Eucalyptus plantation of about
2,000 ha would be established to supply firewood, charcoal and building
poles, principally for the population of Bujumbura.  During the first year
of the Project period, 100 ha would be planted and this area would be
increased annually to 600 ha in the fourth and fifth years to make a total
of 2,000 ha planted during the Project period. The principal species
planted would be Eucalyptus grandis; selected seed would be imported from
neighboring countries as seed available in Burundi is of poor quality.
Technical aspects of plantation development are described in para 5.06: the
principal features would be manual ground preparation, seedling production
in one or more nurseries, manual planting and minimal weeding and thinning
requirements. Plantations would be coppiced at eight-yearly intervals, with



- 18 -
one seedling and three coppice crops. Infrastructure required would include
upgrading of existing roads and establishment of forest tracks, fire protec-
tion, and buildings for plantation staff housing, offices, stores, and
workshops. The principal investment items would be direct afforestation
costs for nurseries and planting (materials, equipment and labor), develop-
ment of infrastructure (roads and buildings) and plantation operation and
maintenance during the Project period.
Pine Timber Plantation
3.06      A pine plantation of about 5,000 ha would be developed south of
Bururi (Vyanda) to produce saw timber for use throughout Burundi. It is
expected that ultimately about 25,000 ha of pine would be planted in the
Bururi region, supplying a sawmill which would be developed to process wood
production (para. 7.05). The planting program at Vyanda would increase from
300 ha in the first year to 1,500 ha in the last two years, making a total of
5,000 ha over five years. Technical features are described in para 5.07. To
support the planting program a nursery or nurseries producing about 1.6
million seedlings a year would be established. The main species would be
Pinus patula, a Mexican pine which is a high volume producer and does well in
Kenya. Below 1,200 m, in drier warmer conditions, P. kesiya, P. elliottii,
and P. caribaea hondurensis would be tried. Ground preparation and planting
would be carried out manually. Given the isolation of the area, development
of plantation headquarters, including housing for all staff, would be required.
Road development requirements would be limited because existing roads cross
the area. These would be upgraded and a network of forest tracks established.
The principal investment items involved would be direct afforestation costs
(labor, seed, planting, watering and other small equipment), the construction
of administrative buildings, workshops and housing; the construction and
maintenance of access roads; the clearing and maintenance of firebreaks, fire
fighting equipment, administrative costs for plantation development, and
plantation operation costs during the project period.
Project Management Support
3.07      A principal objective of the Project would be to assist in strengthen-
ing the present forestry services. A central Project unit would therefore be
established within the Forest Department to provide general management support.
Provision is made for construction of buildings for Project headquarters at
Bujumbura, including offices, workshops and housing. It is expected that the
headquarters building would form part of a new Forest Department headquarters;
this complex would also house staff units engaged in implementing other forestry
projects. Vehicles and equipment would be provided to ensure proper super-
vision and Project execution. The principal investment items would be
buildings, vehicles and equipment, and operating costs of the central Project
management unit during the Project implementation period.
Technical Assistance
3.08      Technical assistance would be required for Project management and to
train Barundi forestry staff to manage Project developments. It would be re-
quired because suitably qualified Barundi staff are not available (para 2.12).
A team of specialists would be engaged and would include a Project manager and



- 19 -
two silviculturists. In addition, volunteers provided with FAC assistance
may provide additional technical support for plantation operation and develop-
ment. The estimated cost of technical assistance per man-month, including
all direct costs, would be between US$6,000 and US$8,000.
Training
3.09      The Project would include a component designed to establish a
systematic long-term training program to provide Barundi staff for forestry
services at higher and intermediate levels. Training for lower level staff,
including extension workers, would be on-the-job, with the possibility of
short courses as appropriate, and training would be specifically defined as
central responsibility of technical assistance personnel engaged for Project
management. Most training would be at specialized institutions in Europe and
other African countries, as no specialized programs are offered in Burundi.
In addition, provision has been made for training visits to forestry projects
in neighboring African countries. A detailed training program is currently
being drawn up by the Government, in consultation with FAO and ILO specialists.
This program will be based on projections of manpower requirements for the
forestry sub-sector, including all projects under implementation or preparation
(para 4.07).
Studies and trials
3.10      Various studies would be undertaken as part of the Project.  One
study would assess the future energy needs of Burundi; trials would be con-
ducted of more efficient charcoal-making by means of modern portable kilns,
and a study would be carried out to develop simple and economical cooking
equipment for use by the rural population. In addition, the Project includes
provision for monitoring and evaluation studies, some additional studies and
trials, and preparation of future projects for the forestry sub-sector.
Additional studies might include specific studies of operating problems and
trials of fodder trees to determine technical results and social acceptability.
D. Project Costs
3.11      Total Project costs are estimated at about FBu 695 million (US$7.7
million), of which about US$3.9 million or 50% represent foreign exchange
costs. Details are summarized in the following table;



- 20 -
FBu Million               US$'000
Project Component            Local   Foreign Total  Local   Foreign Total
Rural Nurseries                26.7     9.7    36.4      293    108    401
Eucalyptus Plantation          48.9    25.9    74.8      535    288    823
Pine Plantation               100.5    59.6   161.1   1,099    673  1,772
Project Management             20.3    10.8    31.1      222    120    342
and Administration
Technical Assistance           12.7   106.1   118.8      131  1,179  1,310
Training                        5.0    45.0    50.0       55    500    555
Studies and Trials            23.8    19.9    43.7       260    221    481
Total                        238.8   277.0   515.8   2,595  3,089  5,684
Contingency Allowances
Physical                    30.6    34.8    65.4       338    382    720
Price                      104.1   116.1   220.2   1,138  1,284  2,422
Total Contingencies          134.7   150.9   285.6   1,476  1,666  3,142
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          374.5   427.9   801.4   4,071  4,755  8,826
Project costs were estimated at prices as of March 1979.  A physical contin-
gency of 15% was applied to forestry developments and Project administration
and of 10% to other Project components to reflect general uncertainty about
the detailed scope of Project investments. Price contingencies were cal-
culated on a cumulative basis: local costs at the rate of 15% per annum;
foreign exchange costs, at 7% per annum for civil works, and 6% per annum for
equipment and other items. Taxes included in Project costs are negligible
since virtually all items would be exempt from import duties. Details of
Project costs are summarized in Table 1.
E.  Financing
3.12      Financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:



- 21 -
FBu               US$        %
(million)         (million)
Government of Burundi                  72.4              0.77         9
F.A.C. (France)                       167.4              1.86        21
U.N.D.P.                               63.6              0.70         8
EEC Special Action Account            108.0              1.20        13
IDA                                   390.0              4.30        49
Total Project Cost               801.4              8.83       100
3.13      The proposed IDA credit of US$4.3 million would be to the Govern-
ment of Burundi on standard IDA terms. The Credit would finance about
49% of total Project costs, including about 43% of foreign exchange costs
and 55% of local costs. The European Economic Community Special Action
Account would finance a total of US$1.2 million equivalent, representing 13%
of total Project costs, for buildings estimated at US$0.8 equivalent and for
studies estimated at US$0.4 equivalent. IDA would act as administrator of the
EEC Special Action Account under a separate agreement between IDA and the
Government of Burundi. The signature of such an agreement would be a condi-
tion of credit effectiveness. UNDP has agreed to finance overseas fellowships
in forestry and also to finance an early study tour for Barundi staff de-
signated to manage the Project. Its contribution, of about US$701,000, would
finance about 8% of total Project costs. FAC have agreed to finance technical
assistance costs of the Project, which would represent an estimated 21% of
total Project costs. FAC would cooperate fully with IDA on all aspects of
Project administration. The Government of Burundi would contribute about 9%
of total Project costs. The effectiveness of the IDA credit would be condi-
tional on appropriate undertakings to finance technical assistance and train-
ing by FAC and UNDP respectively. A Project revolving fund should be estab-
lished by the Government managed by the Project Director under direct control
of the Director of Forestry, to ensure that adequate funds are available for
efficient Project administration. Assurances regarding establishment and
maintenance of this fund were obtained during negotiations, and it would
be a condition of credit effectiveness that the fund had been established
with a minimum balance of US$200,000 equivalent.
F. Procurement
3.14      Contracts for the supply of materials and equipment exceeding
US$80,000 would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts would be bulked to the extent
possible. Contracts for materials and equipment costing less than US$80,000
would be awarded following Government procurement procedures, with the



- 22 -
proviso that for purchases of materials and equipment costing above
US$20,000 bids or requests for price quotations should be sought from suppliers
representing at least three countries; these procedures were examined during
appraisal and are satisfactory. Proposed awards of contracts for procurement
of materials and equipment costing above US$20,000 would be submitted to IDA
for review. The civil works envisaged under the Project are small in size,
and would be scattered throughout Burundi; they would therefore be unlikely
to attract international firms, and international bidding would not be
appropriate. Development of the plantation sites would be undertaken directly
by the Project management services.  For the major buildings (Project head-
quarters and housing), local contractors would be selected after local
competitive bidding in accordance with Government procedures which are
satisfactory to IDA.  Part of the road works would be carried out directly by
the Project management services and part by a newly created mechanical pool
of the Department of Genie Rural (Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and
Rural Development). This pool was specifically designed for such purposes
and should carry out the works involved in a satisfactory manner, at costs
that should be well below these quoted by major contracting firms or the
Department of Public Works. Other civil works, (small buildings etc), would
be carried out by the Project Management Unit through force account. Assur-
ances as.to these procedures were obtained during negotiations. Items
financed under the EEC Special Action Credit would be procured according to
IDA procedures, but would be limited to EEC and eligible countries.
G. Disbursement
3.15      Funds from the Credit account would be disbursed over five years on
the following basis:
US$ million
(a) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures or 90% of local
expenditures for vehicles, equipment and materials;          0.9
(b) 90% of total expenditures for civil works, including
road works, and direct costs of plantation development;   1.8
(c) 90% of total expenditures for operating costs of Project
implementation;                                              0.8
(d) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures or 90% of local
expenditures for project preparation work, and
monitoring and evaluation;                                   0.3
(e) An unallocated sum representing part of price con-
tingencies.                                                  0.5
Total IDA credit                      4.3



- 23 -
Disbursement against (a) and (d) would be fully documented. Disbursements
against (b) and (c) would be made against statements of expenditure certified
by the Director of Waters and Forests and the Ministry of Finance. These would
be made available for inspection by IDA in the course of Project supervision
missions. An estimated schedule of IDA disbursements is given in Table 2.
The EEC funds would be disbursed as follows: 90% of total expenditures for
civil works (construction of buildings) and 100% of foreign expenditures or
90% of local expenditures for studies and trials.
H. Accounts and Audit
3.16      The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development would
maintain separate accounts adequate to explain all Project activities. These
accounts would form part of the Ministry's overall accounts and would be
controlled and reviewed following normal Government financial control proce-
dures which are satisfactory. Control procedures involve principally a
pre-expenditure control followed by annual review of accounts, both to be
carried out by the Ministry of Finance. The Department of Waters and Forests
would prepare a report summarizing the financial situation of all Project
activities and a description of control procedures each year. This report
would be reviewed by the Ministry of Finance and the accounts would be
audited by the Banque de la Republique du Burundi (BRB), which is the Burundi
Central Bank. The audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six
months of the close of each fiscal year. There are no private independent
accounting firms in Burundi. BRB currently audits the accounts of commercial
banks and of parastatal institutions, and it has a staff of trained auditors
for this purpose. BRB is independent from the Ministry of Finance and its
audit staff is qualified to review records of Project financial transactions
and control procedures. The Government would also make arrangements satis-
factory to IDA, for BRB audit of expenditures made against a certificate of
expenditures (para. 3.15). Assurances on implementation of these accounting
and audit procedures of Project investments were obtained during negotiations.
I. Environmental Impact
3.17      The rapid deforestation of Burundi poses a grave threat to the
ecological stability not only of the Zaire/Nile crest zone, but of the
entire country. Not only does soil erosion increase with the cutting down
of trees, but soil fertility decreases as agricultural residues are used for
fuel instead of being returned to the land. The main impact of the proposed
Project would be to assist the Government's efforts to control this process
of degradation by providing additional sources of firewood and establishing
long term policies and practices to protect Burundi's forest resources.
This should reduce illegal cutting of forests and, in conjunction with other
projects and programs, provide sufficient fuel so that the rural population
reduces its reliance on agricultural residues, dung, etc. for fuel. The
pine plantation would have a generally beneficial impact in the Vyanda area,
reducing soil erosion which is becoming a problem in that region.



- 24 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization and Staffing
General
4.01      The Department of Waters and Forests of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock and Rural Development would have principal responsibility for imple-
mentation of the Project's forestry development components. A Project manage-
ment unit would be established within the Department, supervised directly by
the Director of Water and Forests; the unit would be responsible for develop-
ment and operation of rural nurseries and the Eucalyptus and Pine plantations.
The Project management unit would include a Project manager, a deputy Project
manager, two silviculturists, an accountant and support staff (see Chart 2),
plus staff located at the site of plantations. The rural nurseries would be
run by the unit but in close coordination with regional forestry services.
Each plantation would be managed as a separate unit. Studies, monitoring and
evaluation, and future project preparation work would be the responsibility of
the Director General of Agriculture, who would delegate responsibility to the
Director of Waters and Forests and other officials as appropriate.
4.02      Shortages of trained manpower are everywhere a serious impediment
to development in Burundi, but the lack of staff for forestry is particular-
ly acute.  For this reason, substantial technical assistance would be required
for Project management.  It is expected that the technical assistance team
would include a Project Manager and two silviculturists; the team should be
provided by a consulting firm to ensure appropriate technical and administra-
tive backstopping. FAC, which would finance technical assistance, has tenta-
tively designated the CFTF as consultants for the Project; this choice is
appropriate, as CFTF is currently responsible for implementing other forestry
projects in Burundi. They have performed well, and their involvement in the
proposed Project would facilitate coordination among projects under way and
proposed and promote continuity.
4.03      Apart from the technical assistance team, it would be essential
that sufficient numbers of qualified Barundi staff were available for
Project activities. This would be important both to ensure that Project
implementation is satisfactory and to enable expatriate personnel to train
Barundi staff to manage Project developments in the future. Terms of
reference for all key Project staff (Project manager and deputy, two inter-
nationally recruited silviculturists, three deputy silviculturists, and
accountant) were discussed during negotiations, and assurances were
obtained that IDA would approve terms of reference and qualifications for
these posts; assurances should also be obtained that IDA would be consulted
on appointments to all these positions. The appointment of the Project
manager, his deputy, two silviculturists, and an accountant would be condi-
tions of credit effectiveness. Given the crucial importance of training
of forestry staff, assurances were obtained that the Government would
submit an annual report on the progress of the training program to IDA.



- 25 -
Management of Project Components
4.04      Rural Nurseries:  The rural nurseries would be run by the Project
management unit in close coordination with regional forestry services. The
internationally recruited silviculturist in charge of the Eucalyptus planta-
tion sub-project would have special responsibility for overseeing this com-
ponent and he would be assisted by a deputy silviculturist who would work
full time on the nurseries. The provincial "Agronome Forestier" and the
communal level "Assistant Forestier" would be closely associated with super-
vision of nursery operations and extension activities of nursery staff within
their area of jurisdiction, in keeping with the objective that these nurseries
ultimately be integrated into the local forestry services. Possibilities of
providing bonuses or other incentives for extension staff to reward performance
would be considered during Project implementation. A nurseryman (certificate
level training) would be responsible for each nursery, supported by headmen,
some permanent staff, and a variable number of casual laborers. Extension
services provided would involve principally advice and training to institutions
and individual farmers on appropriate forestry practices, including planting
and care of trees and exploitation of existing plantations. This would
involve visits to farmers and communal plantations to follow-up on extension
advice.
4.05      Eucalyptus sub-project:  Mageyo.  The internationally recruited
Silviculturist (Eucalyptus) responsible for the rural nurseries, would also
be responsible for development and operation of the Eucalyptus plantation.
He would be assisted by a Murundi Forest Agronomist (A2) as deputy (employed
full time on the subproject), two Assistant Foresters (A3), two forest
'moniteurs," up to seven plantation guards, three drivers, a few artisans
(bricklayers, etc.), two to four nurserymen and headmen, between 50 and 100
permanent laborers and a variable number of casual laborers. In addition to
the sub-project office/stores, which would be built at Mageyo, houses would
be provided at the plantation site for the Forest Agronomist, the two assistant
foresters and the three drivers. The management arrangements would be suitable
for plantation development and maintenance. New arrangements for eventual
exploitation would be agreed on between the Borrower and IDA at a future date
(Chapter VII).
4.06      Vyanda Pine sub-project:  The sub-project would be established and
managed under the direction of an internationally recruited Silviculturist
(Pine), with a Murundi Forest Agronomist (A2) as deputy. The forest staff
would include two Assistant Foresters (A3), four forest "moniteurs", one
secretary-typist, one mechanic and two assistant mechanics, five drivers, six
to twelve artisans (bricklayers, carpenters, etc.), four to eight nurserymen
and headmen, one hundred to two hundred permanent laborers and a large, but
variable number of casual laborers. All the staff down to the grade of driver
would eventually be housed. A plantation headquarters would be set up at a
convenient place in the center of the area, near a perennial source of water.
As far as possible the administrative buildings and the staff houses would all
be built on the same site. A central nursery would also be constructed as
close as possible to the headquarters - depending on water availability.
One or more small nurseries might eventually be required, if only as depots,



- 26 -
higher up or lower down, in order to reduce the cost of transport. As in
the case of the Eucalyptus plantaton, future management of the plantation
for purposes of exploitation would be discussed at a future date (para 4.05).
4.07      Training:  The training program would be broad based and be
addressed to personnel at all levels (para. 3.09). The detailed program
would be designed by a UNDP specialist in cooperation with Government officials,
and would be based on an assessment of critical manpower requirements for the
forestry sub-sector. The program would be supervised by the Director General
of the Ministry of Agriculture in close cooperation with UNDP staff. Progress
with the training program would be discussed periodically between the Borrower,
IDA and UNDP (para 4.03).
4.08      Studies and Trials:  Like the training component, this component
would be the responsibility of the Director General of Agriculture; he would
delegate responsibility for specific studies to various departments and
agencies as appropriate, and would specifically be responsible for ensuring
proper coordination with the Ministry of Planning on energy-related matters.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that terms of reference for
the studies and trials be submitted to IDA for approval. A study of Burundi's
projected energy needs until the year 2000 is already under consideration by
the Agricultural Section of the Department of Studies and Satistics, Ministry
of Planning. The proposed study would be undertaken by the Ministry of
Planning but it would be prepared and monitored with assistance from IDA's
Energy, Water and Telecommunications Department. For the trials of improved
charcoal production methods, it would be necessary to import kilns of
advanced design. A consultant would be recruited to train local operators
and supervisors in their use with the intention that, by the end of the
Project period, the operation could be handed over to a private enterprise.
For development of economical cooking equipment, a contest for ideas and
designs on a national level may provide a suitable point of departure.
Additional studies and trials related to forestry problems would be designed
and carried out in accordance with specific problems and needs identified
during Project implementation (para.' 3.10).
B. Project Implementation Schedule
4.09      The Project would be implemented over a five year period from
1979 to 1984. Table 3 shows a tentative Project implementation schedule.
This was discussed during negotiations. The Government is currently
working on an agreed program to facilitate Project start-up, including
selection of staff, detailed mapping of Project areas, and preparation of
plans for Project headquarters buildings and housing.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.10      Burundi has not yet established a system for monitoring of Project
progress. Therefore, the Project Manager and the Forestry Department in



- 27 -
consultation with IDA, would establish a simple monitoring plan to provide
key indicators of Project progress. This plan would be kept under constant
review by supervision missions from IDA and would be amended from time to
time, if necessary. The main subjects of interest would include: the number
or rural nurseries in operation and their annual production and sales; area
(ha) successfully planted and established (Eucalyptus and Pine); lengths
of various new roads and tracks built; lengths of new firebreaks created;
new buildings and housing, and the impact of planting programs on the local
population specifically including links between forestry development and
livestock in Project areas. The Government would submit regular half-
yearly and annual reports on the Project. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations.
Project Completion Report
4.11      The Government should prepare a completion report summarizing
performance under the Project and evaluating its successes and problems.
This should be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the ex-
pected closing date (i.e. March, 1985), and assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
V. TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS
Technical Aspects
5.01      Topography and Soils:  In general the topography of all sites
designated for forestry developments is hilly. The underlying geological
system of designated plantation sites (as for the whole country) is the
Rusizian system which is related to the Ubendian system of Tanzania.
The strata of this system are extremely folded and all the rocks are meta-
morphic, consisting mainly of various crystalline schists, gneisses, quart-
zites and micashists. There are few precise data on the soils of the
Project areas but a topographical survey of the areas is at present being
carried out. The soils found on the hills of the Mageyo sub-project area
appear to be reasonably fertile and deep, though some parts show more or
less serious traces of soil erosion. The altitude varies between 1,500 and
2,000 m. The vegetation consists mostly of grass, especially Eragrostis. It
is estimated that over one half of the area has slopes suitable for planting
(between 30 and 60%). The country in the Vyanda sub-project area is very
hilly with a high proportion of steep slopes; the altitude varies between 900
and 1,900 m and it is estimated that half of the area is theoretically plan-
table. The soils appear to be reasonably fertile, though precise information
is lacking at this stage.
5.02      Climate and Rainfall.  The Mageyo area has an annual rainfall of
between 1,300 - 1,600 mm with the main precipitation occurring from October
to April and the main dry season from June to August. The average tempera-
ture is around 20 0C throughout the year with occasional minima around 150C
and maxima up to 25 or 30 C. Hail is said to occur but is not thought to
pose any problem. The average rainfall in Vyanda varies from 1,300 to 1,400
mm on high ground and from 1,000 to 1,100 mm lower down. Mist frequently



- 28 -
occurs at higher elevations. The main rainy season is from September to May
with the peak in March/April. June to August are the dry months although
there are typically some short rains during the dry season and a short dry
season in January/February.  The average annual temperature is around 250C
with occasional minima as low as 10 C and maxima of 25 0C.  Frost does not
occur and hail is not thought to be a problem.
5.03      Population and Land Use:  Most land in the areas designated for
plantation development is currently unutilized or employed by the local
population for extensive grazing of livestock.  Population in both areas
is relatively sparse, although no precise census has as yet been undertaken.
During appraisal the Government agreed to conduct detailed topographic sur-
veys of proposed plantation sites to determine more precisely location of
planting areas and to assess the extent of expropriation required in order
to carry out plantation developments (para 5.08). This matter was discussed
during negotiations.
5.04      Land Tenure.  By law, unutilized land belongs to the Government and
can be readily used for forest development (para 1.06). In designating land
for plantation development, a principal criterion was the selection of sites
which were sparsely populated, largely to avoid the need to expropriate
farmers and to avert possible friction with the local population. In plan-
ning planting programs, cultivated areas would be avoided except in unusual
cases when compensation would be paid. The Government's development rights
in the designated plantation areas have been confirmed by Cabinet Decree
(para 3.02). The Government and IDA agreed in principle during appraisal
that: (a) no land would be utilized for planting that would be suitable for
crop cultivation; and (b) that expropriation of farms would be kept to the
minimum level feasible. Although no formal assurances to this effect are
proposed, the position of land tenure and the impact of plantation develop-
ments on the local population should be carefully monitored throughout Project
implementation (para 4.10). Further, the problem of land tenure and expro-
priation would be reviewed by IDA in conjunction with approval of detailed
planting programs (para 5.08). For rural nurseries, land tenure should
present no problems since farmers would plant woodlots on their own land, and
communes and institutions on unutilized communal land.
Rural Nurseries
5.05      Rural nurseries would be established at suitable sites in 30
designated communes.  A site of about 10 ares would be required, with good
soils and a perennial water source. The total annual production of rural
nurseries would be about 100,000 seedlings per selected commune once in full
operation and it is assumed that this rate of production would be maintained
following the Project period. The species planted would be Eucalyptus
grandis or Eucalyptus tereticornis, although a few ornamentals and fodder
trees might also be produced if farmer demand was adequate. It is assumed
that each commune would plant on communal land, at communal expense and for
communal use, 10 ha of Eucalyptus plantations during the first year of
operations, and 20 ha annually for as long as the nursery program continued;
the areas thus planted would be modest in relation to rural wood needs for



- 29 -
most communes and production from the plantations would be readily utilized.
Planting would be undertaken by the commune administration itself and by
schools, missions and other institutions. The number of seedlings required
per ha is 2,000. Therefore 40,000 seedlings would be required for communal
plantations from the second year of operations onwards in each commune. In
addition, it is intended to produce 60,000 seedlings for sale to the public
in each commune. Production is summarized below:
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4   Year 5   Total
No. of Nurseries in operation  10            20           30        30       30     -
Annual production per
nursery ('000)                50 10 nur.@ 50 10 nur.@ 50        100       100     -
10 nur.@100 20 nur.@100
Total no. of seedlings
produced ('000)              500        1,500        2,500    3,000    3,000  10,500
Suitable for a planting
program of (ha)              250          750        1,250    1,500    1,500   5,250
Excluding contingencies and technical assistance overhead costs, it has been
calculated that the average production cost would be about FBu 3.9 per seedling
at 1979 prices.
Mageyo Eucalyptus Plantation
5.06  (a) Afforestation:  The planting program would be 100 ha in year 1,
300 ha in year 2, 400 ha in year 3, and 600 ha each in years 4 and 5.
Estimated seedlings required per hectare planted would be about 2,000,
including 25% allowance for failures. Seed utilized would be principally
Eucalyptus grandis (saligna), imported, selected seed, which should produce
the best yields in the prevailing conditions. Seed would be sown in black
polythene tubes, and shading of seedlings would be avoided. Planting stock
required would be about 0.2 million in Year 1, increasing to 1.2 million
in years 4 and 5. It would be produced in a single central nursery with
possible small satellite nurseries.  Ground preparation would involve only
manual pitting; mechanical preparation was considered but would increase
production costs substantially without significantly increasing yields. One
tractor and three trailers would be required for transport of plants from
nursery to plantation. The planting rate is assumed to be 150 plants per
manday, equivalent to 14 mandays per hectare including transport of plants.
One tenth of the area only would be fertilized, in order to determine the
need for fertilization under future planting programs. Replacement of
failures over 10% of planted area is assumed. Because of the relatively
fast growth rate of Eucalyptus, the close initial spacing and poorly
developed ground vegetation, weeding should be required only in the first
year. No pruning or thinning would be required. It is assumed that the
Eucalyptus would be coppiced at 8-yearly intervals with one seedling crop
and three coppice crops, yielding 15, 15, 12, and 10 m /ha per crop, res-
pectively.



- 30 -
(b) Indirect Afforestation Activities: The plantation area is traversed
by a communal road approximately 15 km long, which would require minor improve-
ments. An estimated additional 5 km of roads and 60 km of forest tracks would
be developed. Access roads would be 5-7 m wide and tracks 3.5 m. Average
density per 100 ha of plantation would be 1 km for access roads and 3 km for
tracks. Cost of annual road maintenance is estimated at 10% of initial con-
struction cost. For fire protection, maximum use would be made of any natural
features, including indigenous forest which can act as a firebreak in some
circumstances; in addition, about 1 km of cleared fireline per 10 ha of planta-
tion would be required (equivalent to firelines around blocks averaging 16 ha).
Maintenance operations would include reclearing of firelines, one permanent
patrolman per 200 ha for protection against fire, theft, and browsing damage,
firefighting when needed, and standby crews at times of high risk.  Equipment
required would include water tanks, trailers for tractors, and back pack
sprayers.
(c) Production Costs may be summarized as follows: Direct afforesta-
tion costs per hectare would be about FBu 11,500 (US$128), plus continuing
maintenance costs; of this, ground preparation represents 47% of these
costs, seedling production 30%, transport of plants 8%, planting 9% and
fertilizing 7%. Indirect capital costs per hectare are estimated at FBu
17,500 (US$195), of which roads represent 32%, building 46%, transport 20%,
and fire protection 2%. Recurrent costs of plantation operation and main-
tenance per hectare are estimated at FBu 4,500 (US$50) during the Project
period, and from Year 6 onwards about FBu 2,250 (US$25) per hectare.
(d) Production is estimated as follows:
Year             Yield (m 3/ha)          MAI (m /ha)
8 - seedling         120                   15
16 - coppice 1        120                   15
24 - coppice 2         96                   12
32 - coppice 3         80                   10
Vyanda Pine Plantation
5.07 (a) Afforestation: The planting program would be 300 ha in Year 1,
700 ha in Year 2, 1,000 ha in Year 3, and 1,500 ha in Years 4 and 5. Ground
preparation would be carried out by manual pitting, which is standard practice
in Burundi.  Mechanical ground preparation was considered, but direct cost
would be over FBu 8,000 per hectare, plus all costs of an expatriate mechanic
and other overhead costs, and benefits would be uncertain. Small-scale trials
with mechanical ground preparation would be carried out to determine possible
benefits for future planting programs. It is assumed that no significant
clearance of existing vegetation would be required. Seedling Production: an
estimated 1,400 plants would be required per hectare, allowing 25% for losses,
failures, etc. Selected, imported seed, principally Pinus patula, would be
sown in black polythene tubes. A central nursery would be constructed as
close as possible to headquarters, with possibly one or two smaller nurseries
closer to planting areas. An estimated .42 million plants would be required
for the planting program in Year 1, increasing to 2.1 million plants a year in
Years 4 and 5. Some Eucalyptus seedlings would also be produced for firelines
and possibly for sale to farmers. For transport of plants, 3 tractors and 6



- 31 -
trailers would be required, although this equipment would also be utilized for
transporting building materials, nursery soil, workers etc. The daily output
for planting is estimated at 150 plants per manday in areas which have been
manually prepared by pegging and pitting, equivalent to 10 mandays per hectare
including related costs. An estimated 10% of the total planting area would
be fertilized. Allowance has been made for replacement of failures for about
10% of the annual planting program. Manual spot weeding would be carried out
during the first and second year after planting. Pruning operations would be
carried out in Years 6, 9 and 12. Thinning would be required in Years 12, 15,
and 18, with clear felling of all standing timber in Year 25.
(b) Indirect Afforestation Activities: Road development would involve
improvement of the principal existing road traversing the Project area, which
links up with the lakeside road of Kigwena; an additional 10 km of access
roads and about 150 km of forest tracks would be developed. Access road width
would be 5-7 m and forest tracks 3.5; density of roads per 100 km of planta-
tion would be 1 km for access roads and 3 km for forest track. Road main-
tenance costs are estimated at 10% of initial construction costs. Fire
protection: would involve several types of fire lines, making use of indi-
genous forest, roads, cultivated lines and cleared firebreaks. Planted
Eucalyptus firebreaks would be established where appropriate at a density of
1 km of firelines per 50 ha of pine plantation, while firelines of 3 m wide
and clean cultivated strips of the same size would be utilized in other
areas. Continuing fire protection activities would include clean cultiva-
tion of fire tracks, fire watching and fighting (1 patrolman per 200 ha of
plantation). Overhead costs would include management and labor, building
construction and maintenance (housing for all staff, guest house, offices,
stores and workshops), transport equipment and operation, and surveys and
training.
(c) Production costs may be summarized as follows: Direct afforestation
costs per hectare would be about FBu 9,300 (US$103), of which 39% represents
ground preparation, 36% seedling production, 10% transport of plants, and 8%
planting costs. Weeding, pruning and thinning costs would average about
FBu 500 a year. Indirect afforestation capital costs per hectare are esti-
mated at FBu 16,000 (US$178), of which 35% represents road construction,
45% building construction, and 18% transport equipment. Recurrent costs per
hectare would be about FBu 4,300 (US$48) a year during the Project period
(55% representing direct costs of expatriates) and FBu 2,250 (US$90) a year
thereafter.
(d) Production per ha is estimated as follows:



- 32 -
Year                    Volume m /ha               Average Vol/T5ee Removed
Sawlogs  Smallwood  Total                     m
12                 20          15      35                    0.12
15                 35          20      55                    0.22
18                 40          20      60                     0.40
25                 120         30      150                    0.50
Total Volume
Production       215          85     300
3
MAI = 12 m /ha       72%       28%    100%
Detailed Planting Programs
5.08      The Government is currently undertaking detailed topographic surveys
of the Mageyo and Vyanda areas, in order to facilitate the preparation of
detailed planting programs for each area. These plans, which should specific-
ally consider the agricultural potential of proposed planting sites and the
degree of expropriation required (if any), should be submitted to IDA for
approval prior to initiating the planting program. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
Producer Benefits
5.09      The rural nursery program would benefit up to 50,000 farmers in 30
of Burundi's 79 communes by supporting the planting of communal and farm wood
lots. There would be no financial benefits for these producers, however, as
virtually all wood produced would be utilized by farmers themselves. The
Government would likely be the principal direct beneficiary of the Eucalyptus
and Pine plantations.
VI. GOVERNMENT BENEFITS
6.01      In undertaking the proposed Project, the Government of Burundi
is in effect committed to a long-term development program that will not
yield financial or other benefits for many years. In particular, the Vyanda
Pine plantation would fulfill its long-term objectives only if up to 25,000
ha of plantations are eventually established in the Bururi region, providing
sustained wood supplies for a sawmilling industry. Full benefits would not
be attained for 25 years, although some timber could be produced after 12 to
14 years. The Mageyo Eucalyptus plantation would be fully productive after
8 years. For both plantations, maintenance costs during the lengthy develop-
ment period would be the responsibility of the Government, although external
financing might be available for some of these costs. Annual maintenance
costs of the Eucalyptus plantation following the Project period (1979
prices) are estimated at about FBu 4.5 million (US$50,000) a year; for the



- 33 -
Vyanda Pine plantation they would average about FBu 11.3 million (US$125,000)
a year from 1985 onwards. In both cases, it is assumed that no further
expatriate management assistance would be required. The rural nurseries
would, at least initially, be fully supported by the Government budget; the
estimated annual operating cost of 30 nurseries at full development (Year 4)
is estimated at about FBu 10 million (US$110,000). It is expected that at
least a part of these costs would be recovered from farmers through payment
of a charge reflecting costs of production; at 1979 prices, this charge
should be about FBu 4 per plant (para 5.05) and would produce revenues at
full development of about FBu 7 million a year. Introduction of charges to
farmers should, however, be cautious, as farmers are not accustomed to pay
for many inputs and services and might resist payment for seedlings in cash.
Current Government practice is that coffee and other seedlings are distri-
buted free of charge, and this might discourage payment for Eucalyptus
seedlings. Government officials have indicated their wish to establish a
national policy of recovery of costs of inputs from beneficiaries principally
in order tu generate adequate revenue to continue and expand rural services.
Introduction of charges for seedlings should be planned as part of this
broader policy, rather than in isolation. If farmers proved unwilling to pay
cash for seedlings, and if no coherent cost recovery policy were introduced
for other inputs, then the practice of requiring payment for Eucalyptus
seedlings should be reviewed in order to ensure that farmers had adquate
incentives to plant trees. Alternative solutions might involve a reduced
charge for seedlings, or distribution of seedlings in conjunction with
communal labor schemes. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government would, to the extent feasible, charge to farmers the full
cost of seedlings (excluding expatriate management costs), and that they
would consult periodically with IDA on the level of charges for seedlings,
including specifically the adequacy of incentives to farmers to plant trees.
Revenue to the Government from the Eucalyptus and Pine plantations would be
determined by stumpage charges and exploitation arrangements, which are
discussed below in paras 7.01 and 7.05-5. Table 4 shows a tentative Gov-
ernment Project-related cash flow.
VII. MARKETS AND PRICES
General
7.01      The Burundi Government has not yet established a clear policy
for pricing and marketing of forest products (para 2.08). Utilization and
marketing of wood are largely uncontrolled by the Government, and although
permits are required for cutting trees in Government or communal forests,
fees charged are so low that they represent only a minute proportion of
production costs; even so, considerable quantities of wood are taken from
Government forests without authorization or payment, and because of the
difficulties of exercising effective controls over the nation's scattered
forests, the Government hesitates to raise fees rapidly. The Government
agreed during appraisal that pricing policies relating to the forestry sub-
sector require clear definition as a matter of high priority, and that fees
for forest exploitation should gradually be increased to a level reflecting
the economic value of the trees. This would both increase Government revenue



- 34 -
from the forest sub-sector, and perhaps slow down forest destruction. General
pricing policies would be subject of periodic discussions between the Govern-
ment and IDA throughout the Project implementation period. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government accepts the principle
that charges for all forest products regulated by the Government should re-
flect costs of production and that a charge system reflecting this principle
would be introduced as rapidly as possible, consistent with the need to
ensure effective Government protection and control of forest resources.
Assurances were also obtained that the Government and IDA would consult
at least once a year on general pricing and marketing policies affecting the
forestry sub-sector, and that, for production resulting from the proposed
Project, stumpage rates charged would reflect the full costs of production for
plantation development and maintenance.
Rural Nurseries
7.02      Previous experience in Burundi suggests that farmers would be
keen to plant trees, and it is expected that production from rural nurseries
would therefore be readily accepted and utilized by farmers. Forest department
nurseries have operated for several years in many parts of the country, and
have never encountered any difficulty in distributing all available seedlings.
However, there has been to date no significant experience with sale of
seedlings, although Government officials report that when charged for services,
including veterinary products and (human) health needs, farmers have proved
willing to pay such charges to a surprising degree. The principal issue for
the nursery program is the level of charges for seedlings, which is discussed
in para 6.01 above.
Eucalyptus Production
7.03      The market for Eucalyptus plantation production is virtually
guaranteed since it would be producing fuelwood for Bujumbura in quantities
which are relatively small in comparison to demand. Assuming a coppice
rotatio5 of 8 years, 4 coppice rotations, a constant mean annual increment
of 15 m /ha (though in fact this will probably be reduced by 20% after the
second rotation and by a further 20% after the third rotation), and a dis-
counting interest rate of 10%, the theoretical stumpage rate (standing value)
assuming 5overage of pro uction costs based on mid 1979 costs should be
FBu 800/m . One solid m of wood (specific gravity when dry = 0.6) should
produce about 20% of its weight in charcoal, i.e. 120 kg or 3 bags of 40 kg,
if good carbonization techniques are used. To the value of wood should also
be added the cost of felling and stacking, carbonization, transport and mar-
keting, which would at least double the value of thS end product (charcoal).
Thus, if the stumpage  rate of the wood is FBu 800m , a bag of 40 kg would
have to be sold for at least FBu 550 - which is not much higher than the
current (July 1978) price of FBu 500. Similarly for poles, the selling
prices would have to be related to the stumpage rate, but should not be much
in excess of the prices obtaining now. Wood scarcity will inevitably force
prices up in any case. It is expected that the Eucalyptus plantation would
be exploited either by a parastatal company established for the purpose or



- 35 -
by private entrepreneurs working on a licence basis. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that Government would consult with IDA before
June 30, 1984 on marketing and pricing arrangements for future exploitation
of the Eucalyptus produced.
Pine
7.04      Pine produced at the Vyanda plantation would be marketed throughout
the country. On the assumption of mid 1979 costs and expected yields per ha
for Pine (para 5.07), the following stumpage rates would have to be charged if
the discounting rate is 10%:
( Sawlogs       - FBu 1,900/mr  (average) (US$21.11)
(                             3
( Smallwood     - FBu   380/mi  (US$4.22)
To these basic costs musi be added the cost of logging and transport,
estimated at FBu 1,500/m . The delivered wood c2st at a sawmill at the
lakeside would thus be approximately FBu 3,500/m . Assuming a 40% r5covery
rate from sawlog to sawn timber and saw-milling costs of FBu 3,000/m  (sawn),
the total cost of one cubic meter sawn timber at millsite would be FBu 8,750
+ 3,000 = FBu 11,750.  This is considerably more than the current price of
FBu 8,000, but would be considerably less than the price qloted for imported
Cypress sawn timber from Kenya, which is over FBu 15,000/m (US$167).
7.05      Arrangements for exploitation of the Vyanda Pine plantation have
not yet been determined, as it would be premature at this stage. It is
probable that it would be undertaken either by a parastatal company esta-
blished for the purpose or by private entrepreneurs working under licencing
arrangements. Details would be worked out at an appropriate stage, and
would depend in large part on the development of future sawmilling capacity
to process production; one large Iawmill or several smaller sawmills wity a
total capacity of about 215,000 m (roundwood), producing about 86,000 m of
sawn timber, would eventually be required. In addition, part of smallwood
production may be utilized by a planned particle board factory that may be
developed in conjunction with palm oil developments in the Rumonge region.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would
consult with IDA prior to June 30, 1984 on marketing, processing, and
pricing arrangements for the Vyanda plantation Pine production.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The principal direct benefits from the Project would consist of:
(i) seedlings (principally Eucalyptus) produced by rural nurseries which
would be planted in small communal plantations and farm woodlots to supply



- 36 -
fuelwood and building pole requirements of the rural population; an estimated
1,500 ha a year would Ve planted from the third Project year onwards. Assum-
ing production of 10 m /ha per annum, each year of operation of the nursery
program should meet the fuel wood requirements of about 6,000 rural families;
(ii) fuelwood, charcoal and building poleS produced by the Eucalyptus planta-
tion: total production of about 30,000 m a year roundwood equivalent
would principally supply part of the fuel and building pole requirements of
the population of Bujumbura; and (iii) sawn timber and smallwood produced by  3
the Vyanda pine plantation; the estimated future production of about 215,000 m
(roundwood) of saw logs would support a future sawmilling industry, while
smallwood production would help meet other industrial or rural fuel needs.
In addition, the Project's technical assistance and training components
would assist in developing effective forest services for Burundi. Further
benefits would result if the rural nursery program permitted or encouraged
part of the rural population to reduce use of agricultural residues for
fuel, as this would enhance soil fertility and possibly reduce erosion; such
benefits cannot, however, be readily estimated or quantified. The possible
positive impact of the Vyanda pine plantation on the local environment would
be an additional benefit from the Project.
8.02      The economic rate of return from all directly productive com-
ponents of the Project is estimated at about 20%. Cost of overseas train-
ing, studies and trials, and future project preparation were not included in
the analysis, as benefits from these activities would accrue principally in
future projects and programs. Rates of return were calculated separately
for the Eucalyptus and Pine plantations.
(a) No separate rate of return was calculated for rural nurseries,
because of the difficulty in determining an appropriate value for either the
seedlings or eventual fuelwood and pole production. Such production could
in theory be valued in terms of the equivalent value of imported goods which
would provide alternative sources of energy, but this does not appear real-
istic, as costs of such alternatives (notably kerosene) would be prohibi-
tively expensive for the rural population. In fact, incremental wood
production would probably, at the margin, substitute for agricultural
residues as a source of fuel, and the principal benefit would thus be
increased crop yields or reduced erosion resulting from greater use of such
residues for crops. Tentative analysis of benefits from such substitution
of wood for residues suggests that the rate of return for rural fuelwood
production would be at least 10%, but the data are so uncertain that these
figures were not included in the overall rate of return computation; costs
and benefits of rural nurseries were thus excluded from the analysis.
(b) The rate of return from the Eucalyptus fuelwood plantation
was calculated on the basis of a per hectare model, including all costs of
plantation development and maintenance. It would be about 17%. Production
was valued at FBu 1,350 (US$15 equivalent) per m  roundwood.  It was assumed
that the economic value of wood utilized for urban consumption was equal
to the equivalent value of the principal alternative energy source avail-
able to the urban poor, which is kerosene. It was assumed that per capita



- 37 -
3
consumption of wood or charcoal would be equivalent to 1 m of Eucalyptus,
and that the alternative would be use of about 75 litres of kerosene a year.
Adjustments to take account of cutting costs, charcoal production and mar-
keting were made. The rate of return was also calculated using a current
markei price for charcoal of about FBu 550 a bag, equivalent to about US$9
per m roundwood. The resulting rate of return would be about 12%. The
Project life for the Eucalyptus model was assumed to be 33 years.
(c) The economic rate of return for the pine plantation was also
calculated on the basis of a per hectare model, and would be about 22% over
26 years. All direct costs were included in the analysis. The economic value
of saw log production was assumed to be equivalent to sawn timber imported
from Kenya and Tanzania, adjusted to take account of logging, transport, and
milling costs. This value is appropriate since there is no alternative source
of timber to imports, and substitutes for timber which might be used to meet
Burundi's development needs are significantly more costly (metal or fiberglass
for examplel.  This would imply an economic val e of standing timber of about
US$58 per m . If timber were valued at US$15/m , which may be considered a
reasonable international cost, the rate of return would be about 11%.
8.03      The economic value of production from the pine planation was
adjusted to take into account expected changes in international prices for
sawn timber. Foreign exchange costs and benefits were valued at the prevail-
ing exchange rate of US$1 = FBu 90 which was assumed to reflect accurately
the value of foreign exchange. It was assumed that production of the Pine
and Eucalyptus plantations would substitute for imports. Unskilled labor
was valued at prevailing market rates, which were assumed to reflect reason-
ably accurately the economic value of such labor. These rates of return
were tested for sensitivity under a variety of unfavorable assumptions of
delays in Project implementation, increases in estimated costs, and reduced
yields. The rates of return are most sensitive to reduction in yields and
delays in Project implementation, but under all alternative assumptions
tested they would still be satisfactory. Economic rate of return calcula-
tions are summarized in Table 5.
8.04      The Project does not involve any unusual risks.  Delays in Project
implementation could result from management difficulties, problems in
recruiting staff, or slow deliveries of materials and equipment from over-
seas; these delays would, however, not significantly reduce benefits as
corresponding expenditures would be slower in consequence. Further, com-
pared with most other operations in the rural development and agriculture
sector, the Projec't is very simple in design and should require limited
reliance on administrative services and farmers' cooperation for support.
The principal risk relates to the rural nursery component, which is in
potential long term impact the most important Project component. There
exists some uncertainty about the willingness of farmers to pay for seedlings
and to develop woodlots on a scale sufficient to meet their fuel needs. This
component is thus quite experimental in conception. If it does not succeed,
financial losses would be small, but it could have serious long-term conse-



- 38 -
quences for Burundi in terms of soil fertility and erosion. Another possible
risk is that yields would be lower than expected; experience with plantation
development in Burundi is limited, and soil conditions in Project areas are
not well known. However, experience with comparable forestry development
under comparable conditions in neighboring African countries suggests that
yield estimates are reasonable, and probably conservative. A further risk is
destruction of plantations by fire, but this risk is common to all forestry
projects and appropriate provision has been made for fire prevention measures.
Finally, there is a minimal risk that Project production might not find a
ready market, since demand for wood and wood products has not been demonstrated
under Burundi's present situation of acute wood scarcity. This risk seems
improbable, however, as projected wood production per capita with this and
other projects under way or being planned would be far lower than that
indicated by projections for neighboring countries. No practical, inexpensive
alternative energy source for the poorer segments of the population has yet
been developed and the widespread replacement of wood use with peat, solar
energy or any other fuel source in the foreseeable future seems highly
improbable.
Employment and Income Distribution
8.05      Project investments would have a significant employment impact
in the areas concerned, as plantation development would be highly labor
intensive. Each rural nursery would employ about 2 persons permanently,
and up to 20 laborers at certain periods. The Eucalyptus plantation would
employ 120 permanent staff and up to 800 laborers, while the Pine plantation
would require about 220 full-time staff and up to 1,500 casual laborers.
The total number of permanent jobs created would be about 400 while about
3,000 persons would be employed to meet unskilled labor requirements. The
rural nursery program would directly benefit a large number of rural families,
most in the lowest income group. The seedlings would enable a total of about
10,000 families to meet their fuel needs adequately from proper wood lots over
the five-year Project period, and about 3,000 additional families a year should
benefit as long as the nursery program continued. The Eucalyptus plantation
would provide fuel supplies at reasonable cost to the poorer segments of
Bujumbura's population; if current wood shortages persist, the city's poor
would be the principal sufferers. The pine plantation would benefit all
segments of Burundi's population, through increased availability of wood
for a wide variety of purposes.
IX. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED ON LOAN CONDITIONS
9.01      During Negotiations, the following issues were discussed:
(a) Terms of Reference for key project staff (para 4.03);
(b) Project Implementation Schedule (para 4.09); and
(c) Topographic Surveys of Project Areas (5.03).



- 39 -
9.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
issues:
(a) That the Government would establish and maintain a revolving
fund (para 3.13);
(b) Procurement arrangements for the Project (para 3.14);
(c) Accounting and audit procedures for Project investments,
(para 3.16);
(d) That the Government would submit the terms of reference
and qualifications of the Project Manager, the deputy
Project manager, the two silviculturists, the three Barundi
agronomists and the accountant to IDA for its approval and
consult with IDA on their appointment (para 4.03);
(e) That the Government would submit an annual report to IDA on
the progress of the training program (para 4.03);
(f) That the terms of reference for studies to be carried out under
the Project be submitted to IDA for approval (para 4.08);
(g) That the Government would submit regular half-yearly and
annual reports on the Project (4.10);
(h) That the Government would prepare a completion report and
submit it to IDA not later than six months following the
closing date (para 4.11);
(i) That detailed planting programs for the Eucalyptus and Pine
plantations would be submitted to IDA for approval (para 5.08);
(j) That the Government would, to the extent feasible, charge
farmers the full cost of seedlings produced by rural nurseries
and would consult periodically with IDA on the level of
charges (para 6.01);
(k) That the Government accepts the principle that charges for forest
products should be based on production costs, that a charge system
replacing this principle will be introduced gradually, consistent
with the need to ensure adequate protection and control of forests,
and that the Government and IDA would consult at least once a year
on pricing and marketing policies affecting the forestry subsector
(para 7.01);
(1) That for production resulting from the proposed Project,
stumpage rates charged would reflect the full costs of
production for plantation development and maintenance (para
7.01);



- 40 -
(m) That Government would consult with IDA before June 30, 1984
on marketing and pricing policy for future exploitation of the
Eucalyptus produced at the Mageyo plantation (para 7.03); and
(n)  That the Government would consult with IDA prior to June 30,
1984 on marketing processing and pricing arrangements for
the Vyanda Pine production (para 7.05).
9.03      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) That appropriate undertakings to finance the Project had
been obtained from FAC and UNDP and that an agreement had
been signed between IDA and the Government of Burundi
concerning administration of the EEC Special Action Credit
(para 3.13);
(b) Establishment of a revolving fund with at least US$200,000
equivalent balance to ensure that adequate funds were
available for Project administration (para 3.13); and
(c) Appointment of key Project staff; Project Manager, deputy
Project Manager, two Silviculturists and accountant;
(para 4.03).
9.04      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$4.3 million to the Government of Burundi
on standard IDA terms.
April 24, 1979



- 41 -
BURUNDI                                                         Table/Tableau 1
FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                          PROJET FORESTIER
Ssmary of Project Costs                                                                                       do  ro et
(UN,, '330)                                                                         (en ml lliers dceFu)
Total   Foreign
Project Year / Annie do Projet                  Year/   Exchange/
a                                                AnnSe    Devises
Project Coponent                              1 -        2          3          4          5         1-5         i                    Elemnts du Prolet
1. Rural Nurseries - Direct Cost                                                                                                 1. PepipiDres rurales - Coats directs
Materials                                        508         847     1,298      1,129    1,129       4,911        90             Materiaux
Labor                                          1,637       2,766     3,669      2,823    2,823       13,718        0             Main d'oeuvre
Vehicles and Equipoent                         1,355          -         -           -         -       1,355       95             Vibicules ot equipemer-ts
Direct Operating Costs                         1,694       2,823     3,952      3,952    3,952       16,373       25             Coats directs d'enploitation
Sub-Total                             5.194       6.436     8,919      7.904    7.904    36.357          27                       Total partiel
2. Eucalyptus Plantation                                                                                                         2. Plantations d'eucalyptus
-           Materials                                         315      1,356      1,283      1,913    1,948       6,815        90             Materiaux
Labor                                          1,102       3,486     5,182      7,796    8,506      26,072         0             Main d'oeuvre
Road Contract                                    458       1,106     1,679      2,651     2,824      8,718        50             Contrat construceioa routes
Vehicles and Equipent                          8,694          -      1,355         -          -     10,049        95             Vehicules et iquipements
Buildings                                     4,495       5,227      1,568         -         -      11,290        30             BItiments
Direct Operating Costs                         2,603       2,321     2,321      2,321     2,321     11,887        25             CoGts directs d'exploitation
Sub-Total                            17.667     13.496    13.388    14.681    15,599       74.831        35                       Total partial
3. Pins Plantation                                                                                                               3. Plantations des pins
Materials                                        909      3,833      3,009      4,518    4,606      16,875        90             MatEriaux
Labor                                          2,372       6,318    10,952    15,478   17,434       51,654         0             Main d'oeuvre
Road Contract                                  1,145       2,785     4,198      6,488    7,060      21,676        50             Contrat construction routes
Vehicles and Equipment                        14,226          -      3,645      2,032        -      21,903        95             Vihicules et iquipements
Buildings                                    12,190      14,019    4,276           -         -      30,485       30              Maisons et b9tinents
Direct Operating Costs                         3,952      3,638      3,638      3,638    3,638      18,504       25              Coats directs d'exploitation
Sub-Total                            34.794     30,593    30.818    32.154    32.738    161.097          38                      Total partiel
4. Project Administration and Operation                                                                                          4. Administration 6 Exploitation du praSet
Vehicles and Equipment                         2,258          -         -          -         -       2,258        15             Vihicules et iquipements
Housing and Buildings                          7,904      9,033      2,258         -         -      19,195       40              Maisons et bitinnts
Wageo  and Salaries - Branch Staff             1,129      1,129      1,129      1,129    1,129       5,645        0              Salaires - Personnel succursale
Other Operating Costs                            794        794        794        794       794      3,970       25              Autres con ts d'exploitation
Sub-Total                            12.085     10.956    4.181        1.923    1.923      31.068       21                        Total partial
5. Technical Assistance                            23.760      23.760    23.760    23.760   23.760    118,800          90        c  Assistance technicue
6. Training                                        10,000      10.000   10,000    10,000   10,000        50.000        q0        6. Pormation
7. Studies and Trials                                                                                                            7. Etudes et essais
Energy Needs                                     -        2,090     3,140         530        -       5,760       40              Besoins en Enargie
Charcoal Kiln                                    -        2,090    3,140       3,140    1,050        9,420       40              Four (charbon de bois)
Improved Cooking Equipment                       -        1,050    2,090         310        -        3,450       50              CuisiniDres diveloppies
Monitoring and Evaluation                     1,050       3,090     2,090      2,090    2 090        9,410       50              Suivi et evaluatioc
Future Project Preparation s                                 -      5,230      5,230    5,230       15,690       50              Preparation projets futurs
Sub-Tetal                              .O050     7,320   15,690    11,300    8,370         43,730       46                        Total partiel
Total Base  Project Costs                         104,550    102,56   106,756   10, 7-22  100,294    515,883           53        Total coats de bane du projet
Contingencies                                                                                                                    Inprivus et rivision des prix
Physic.  a/                                    13,572      13,064   13,276    12,843   12,6/3         65,428                     Iprivqs physiques a/
Price _                                        16,498      28,896   44,535    58,088   72,143    220,160                         Prieb_
Sob-Total                           30.070      41.960   57,811      70,931   84.816    285.588
Total Project Costs                               134.620    144.521  161,567    172.653  185,110    801.471                     Toral colts du preeet
a/ 15% pour les pipiniires rurales, l'administration du proJet,
a!  15% for rural norseries, eucalyptus and pine plantation and project                                     les plantations de pins et d'eucslyptus; 10% pour les autres
administration, 107. for other conponents.                                                             composantea.
b/  Price contingencies based on IBRD/IDA guidelines and nission eati-                                 b/  Provisions pour hausse den prix basies sur les directives de
mates a. follovs:                                                                                      la BIRD/IDA et lee estimations do la nission coane suit:
Foreign Coors                          1979-84 1/                                                      Coats en devises                        1979-84 11
Civil Works                            7                                                             Travaux de G0im  Civil                      7
Equipment                              6                                                             Equipeenta                                  6
Technical Assistance                   6                                                             Assistance technique                        6
Local Costs                              10                                                            Coats en monnaie nationale                 10
Weighted Average                       10.3                                                          Mayenne pondirme                           10.3
c/  Year 1 is assumed to begin October 1979, but includes sone project                                 c/  L'onnie  1 cet supposie  comsencer
activities prior to that date.                                                                         certainen activites antirieuras a catte date.
1/  12.31 was used for the 18 montha period fr.. March 1979 to                                         1/  Pour la piriode ears 1979 - uctobre 1980
October 1980.                                                                                          moy.nne pond6rie utilisni  = 12,31
April 30, 1979                                                                                       Le 30 ovril 1979



- 42 -
Table/Tableau 2
BURUNDI
FORESTRY PROJECT                             PROJET FORESTIER
Estimated Disbursement Schedule               Calendrier estimatif des d6caissements
IDA Fiscal Year             Cumulative Disbursement at          Exercice et
and Quarter                 end Quarter/Decaissements           trimestre IDA
cumulatifs (uS$'0oo)
IDA              EEC
1979/80                                                          1979/80
September 30, 1979                                               30 septembre 1979
December 31, 19791/         -                                    31 d6cembre 19791/
March 31, 1980              -                 _                  31 mars 1980
June 30, 1980               60                50                 30 juin 1980
1980/81                                                          1980/81
September 30, 1980         120              100                  30 septembre 1980
December 31, 1980          250              150                  31 d6cembre 1980
March 31, 1981             500              200                  31 mars 1981
June 30, 1981            1,200              250                  30 juin 1981
1981/82                                                          1981/82
September 30, 1981       1,500              300                  30 septembre 1981
December 31, 1981        1,800              400                  31 d6cembre 1981
March 31, 1982           2,100              600                  31 mars 1982
June 30, 1982            2,400              800                  30 juin 1982
1982/83                                                          1982/83
September 30, 1982       2,600            1,000                  30 septembre 1982
December 31, 1982        2,800            1,200                  31 d6cembre 1982
March 31, 1983           3,100                _                  31 mars 1983
June 30, 1983            3,400                -                  30 juin 1983
1983/84                                                          1983/84
September 30, 1983      3,600                 -                  30 septembre 1983
December 31, 1983       3,800                 -                  31 d6cembre 1983
March 31, 1984          3,900                 _                  31 mars 1984
June 30, 1984           4,000                 _                  30 juin 1984
1984/85                                                          1984/85
September 30, 19842/   4,100                                     30 septembre 198421
December 31, 1984       4,200                                    31 decembre 1984
March 31, 19853/        4,300                                    31 mars 19853/
June 30, 1985                                                   30 juin 1985
1/ Expected Date of Effectiveness, October 1, 1979/Date pr6vue pour entr6e
en vigueur, ler octobre 1979.
2/ Expected Date of Completion, September 30, 1984/Date pr6vue pour achevement
du projet, 30 septembre 1984.
3/ Expected Closing Date, March 31, 1985/Date de cl6ture, 31 mars 1985.
May 2, 1979                                                   Le 2 mai 1979



BURUNDI
FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project Year                    0              1                                                                                  |2  3  5  6
ACTIVITY                           1979               1980              1981              1982               1983              1984
Negotiations                               __
Effectiveness                                     t 
Completion
Closing
PROJECT STAFFING AND MANAGEMENT
Selectionand Appointment of
Expatriate Personnel                                                                                                                                        U.)
National Personnel
AFFORESTATION
Rural Nurseries. No. of Nurseries                                         I   io 0               0                30                 io
Production (000 plants)                                  200               600               1000               1200              1200
Eucalyptus Sub-Project - ha planted                    _U3                                      400               600               600
300               700               1oo0              1500               1500
Pine Sub-Project - ha planted                              40                 46                                         - 0  _   _    t
HOUSING AND BUILDINGS-%                                                                                            I 40  ___
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT -%                                  75                                   20
(Procurement)                                    _
TRAINING--m------- ----mm---m
STUDIES AND TRIALS
Energy Needs                                                                                          g a i    ii ii  ii
Charcoal                                             m                                            m m IIIm   moll moll lol loll oil loll
Improved Cooking Equipment                                                      m mm.jm m   u 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CW
w
World Bank - 19766



0400 00'fO 0 04                                                                                                                                                   0)00 'j400
O0404W        .004444000000.04
4.4.04 o 00.040 04 4000000 400004 w oooooo,o4o oo04o4400400004000 Oo,oo0404 .oq 044000 040044 404 040044o00 40.444 04444 p0,04 4404040 oo 000404044040 40.040000004400 4000O 4
-                                                .O.o..4.ooo.,4ooo00y.4oo4000004000004fl040044h0W00440?
40 440 0004 400404000        4004"       P0000" 00 000 00000 000' 4
po400o.oooooo ooooo .0 00d 0400J 000 *0 0004 047094040A jooOOOOO'00 0004 /0
04.4oo0444405 ooOOOO.04400 000000000000004400040000000000*00/Z
o.oo404 0=40 00 044000440440004040 ooo0 00 004044= 004400040 40400000 44
-                              0400 00 04000.040      044  004440040004 0404 44
04004400040040400 
-          fl      I'm    0004400 00400 440000
- 404040.)4o    400.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4440,44'4/r4''4  40000?
000000                                     40044   000    040   0*40r4            44*44  40-41)  40-404  '-040   0-0004-04    4-440   0404  4004 44-00)0-0440-0404*0''4006   4404                                   0-400-094-000-040*4               400444-n) 4444    ,                  
*4*4 =                 400     004     U40   404   440       0-10   flY     coo    400   000  rot   PU         PU      P21  P24  I'll    4'I       "    '    ''   i'                           '4         I'll   i'a  i'U                                    f4*iflflr4*44                               ox
0000404044400000040            404  004  444  000 400  400  404  404  404  404 044  044  004  004404                                                       ...,..0..0.40.49.44.4,.40*4044440404044000                                                                                04  00  004044
-:                                                                              40444440440                                                                                      :::.414'4i-                                               0404440000400000
-
404  040  404440  404440  440 044  04000084
40 000040000040    44  04  44  40  44 44 v  000  40  44  0440   000400  000 444 401 444 41440444  4
Root"-.  oooooo-oo                 -       -                                                                                                                                                                                                         00    00    4040    40    00   44            24             000040  OO40
,iooo.ooo.oooO.             -co            &o    c-i   4'S       40    4       44    4                             -       -     -
400fl4i'4ji'44             fl/   444   4    44404    04    400   4404  4040444'4                             000000040101
00000 -  0000w                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4144444fl004
00000000406                                                                                                                                                  4044440   40444404
.044          044    0404                                    404  4004  4*04   4440   j'44i                0004    0044   4-004 440    1440   94444004  4404    00(44440   44004044  404  4444   0o'  4*64
044                                                       444444  40044
/0044000040004000         -  -  - -                                            444 0004  404400 44-444-0-C 04 4404  4444040404 449044-                                                                                                                                                        ff00400004040040
/40000400000.000040044             -      040     044    040   440      4                                                                                                                                                                                                                  444                  -4040404-0004
%ooo.oooooo.ooo0. --44004044  440404-444
- - - --40 004 400 404444 00444 00 000400
.040'06
  44 40 44 00 04 04 44 40                                                                   494944444444  44 44 4444444444440444  44444444401
4004  04   0044440  404  -                                                                                                                    40040644
40=0000400'40444004                                                                                                                -



- 45 -
a                                                 I            I^s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALE/TABLEAU 5
~~~~~i~~~
e . . F S e A A nU   O.   _*#-_
~~ 8 P. O A rM A _ r N _~U4      -%         .aOXOb>
El _                                                                                   O    UOA_C   ASA N AA. N0  No ._a    
_ wS     O         C         U         C       U NUUUU .U   08   UU N   U          ~~~~~~~~~~       
i~~~~~  E
. .~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.8
-a  SU 
It    CC _C   Ug_
_                  U              U                                                      C           0   
el W e Nl , 0 O | _ j n ii                                                          UOUShil 
_   _,                                                  _  _      E  F ~~~~~~00t 2 _  _-  i 
8 3                                                                           U           * KCo4   
,  snbA|__b@S_~vO  
_ _                                                   a n   _ 4 o e o o: o  3~~~~~~~~~~~0 U U
~~~~~~~As   =   N U                                     1Xi5
0 . t   N _ _ _  _ N _                       N    |   2UUU          i Cfl   * '.O UZ _ 
Itl                                                                             _        -     



BURUNDI
FORESTRY PROJECT                                     PROJET FORESTIER
Pro,ject Financing Plan                              Plan de financement du projet
FBu Million/en millions de FBU                                  uS$ Million/en millions de US$
Local Cost/  Foreign Cost/    Total                              Local Cost/  Foreign Cost/    T
Coat local   Coats en devises                                    Co-at local   Cout en devises
IDA          206.6          183.4          390.0                               2.26            2.04          4.30       AID
EEC           70.3            37-7         108.0                               O.78            0 42          1.20       CEE
FAC           17.2          150.2          167.4                               0.19            1.67          1.86       FAC
UNDP            7.0          56.6           63.6                               0.07            0.63          0.70      PNUD
Government    72.4            -            72.4                                0.77             -            0.77      Gouvernement
Total     373.5          427.9         801.4                                4.07            4.76         8.83
April 30, 1979                                                                                  Le 30 avril 1979
H
a
0-3
CH



BURUNDI FORESTRY PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development
Development                Rural Development
- -~T
Cv  Wors  Ld adAgricultural Planning
DrcoGeeral                                              Drector GnrlLivestock and Rural                             Director General
Arclue                                                     Livestc                    Development                 Rural Development
INFORAGRO.
Agronomy  Hydro ks mate  Forestry           TopoLraphy                 Animal                   Animal Health
Agronomy  Hydro-climate     ForestrDivisonorah                             Production            Veterinary Laboratory        Cooperatives           Rural Habitat
Water Supply
Division
Electricity Supply       r
Division
World Bank - 19770



-48 -                                         Chart 2
BURUNDI
FORESTRY PROJECT
PROPOSED PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
Director of
|       Forestry
Project Manageril
Silviculturistil                                        Silviculturist/
Rural Nurseries                                          Sict
and Eucalyptus                                               Pine
Forest Agronomist                                       Forest Agronomist
Asst. Forester                                          Asst. Forester
Forest "Moniteurs"                                     Forester "Moniteurs"
I Deputy Project Manager
F Project Administration
|     Accountant
1/ Expatriate                                         World Bank - 19768



- 49 -
BURUNDI
FORESTRY PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.     Documents on Forestry
1.    Projet pilote de reforestation de 2000 ha (fevrier 1978),
Institut des sciences agronomiques du Burundi (ISABU)
2.    Survey of the mechanical forest industries in Burundi,
W.J. MacInnes (June 1975)
3.    Mission d'appui a l'op6ration "amenagement agro-sylvo-pastoral
pilote et plantations forestieres dans le Mumirwa." - Centre
technique forestier tropical (decembre 1976)
4.    Expose de la politique forestiere mise en oeuvre par le
departement, ann6e de l'arbre - Ministare de l'agriculture,
de l'6levage et du developpement rural (mai 1978)
5.    Problemes de sylviculture et de d6fense et restauration des
sols - Centre technique forestier tropical (septembre 1973)
6.    Problemes forestiers au Burundi par C. Pouilloux (extraits de la
rev-ue Bois et forets des tropiques, No 170, novembre-d6cembre 1976)
7.    Projet d'experimentation forestiere dans le Mumirwa, premiers
resultats des essais sylvicoles, Ministere de lagriculture et
du developpement rural (C. Pouilloux, octobre 1978)
8.    Projet d'enquete sur la consommation du bois au Burundi, D6partement
des etudes et statistiques, Ministere du Plan
9.    Rapport annuel 1977, Ministere de l'agriculture, de l'6levage et
du d6veloppement rural, Departement des Eaux et forets
10.   Inventaire des boisements du Burundi, Cartographie forestiere,
Ministere de l'agriculture, de 1'6levage et du d6veloppement
rural (J.L. Boisset, C. Pouilloux avril 1976-mars 1977)
11.   Bareme des taxes sur permis de coupe et de vente du bois, edition
1977, Ministere de l'agriculture, de l'elevage et du developpement
rural
12.   Esquisse d'un avant-projet de reboisement, Bassins de la Kadjeke,
Mpanda, Musruve, Mutimbuzi, Mission forestiere Crete Zaire-Nil
(mai 1974)
13.   Dossier du projet "Protection de la Kibira", C. Pouilloux, Mission
forestiere Crete Zaire-Nil, Departement des Eaux et forets
(avril 1978)
14.   La consommation et la reserve de bois de chauffage au Burundi par
Walter R. Ruston, Programme des Nations Unies pour le d6veloppement
(juillet 1977)
15.   L'importance du genre Callitris et du Pinus Patula dans la
reforestation de la zone des altitudes superieures au Burundi par
V. Caethoven, Institut des sciences agronomigues du Burundi (ISABU)
(1976)



- 50 -
B.     Documents Pertaining to ProJect
1.    Production de bois d'oeuvre - Programme et devis estimatif
2.    Report on visit to Burundi March 13-26, 1978, T.J. Synnott -
World Bank Consultant
3.    Note preparee par MM. Brouard et Synnott 'a l'intention du
gouvernement du Burundi au terme de leur mission au Burundi
en mars 1978
C.     Miscellaneous Working Papers
1.    Rapport annuel 1975 - Ministere de l'agriculture et de lelevage
2.    Rapport annuel 1976 - (ditto)  Departement des Eaux et forets
3.    Rapport annuel 1977 - Ministere de l'agriculture et de l'6levage,
Departement de l'agronomie
4.    Rapport annuel de 1'ISABU pour 1976, Vol. l.B. .Rapport technique
pour les projets - ISABU (juillet-aoat 1977)
5.    Rapport annuel de 1'ISABU pour 1976, Vol.II - Notes annexes -
ISABU (juin 1977)
6.    R6gion de Rumonge, etude statistique (d6mographie, 6conomie),
Premier ministere et Ministere du Plan (janvier-mars 1977)
7.    Informations mensuelles, Mois de mai 1978 - Ministere du Plan
(juin 1978)
8.    L'6conomie du Burundi, Document de travail, Table ronde
Bujumbura, 21-24 f6vrier 1978, Banque Mondiale (30 janvier 1978)
9.    Bulletin statistique No 60, 4eme bulletin statistique 1977 -
Premier minist6re et Minist6re du Plan (fevrier 1978)
10.   Utilisation de la tourbe au Burundi, Propositions pour un
programme de d6veloppement de l'exploitation de la tourbe pendant
la decade de 1977 a 1987 par Walter R. Ruston, Expert ONUDI -
Ministere de 1'6conomie et des finances, D6partement de l'industrie
et de l'artisanat (juillet 1976)
11.   Utilisation industrielle de la tourbe, Rapport final par Walton R.
Ruston - Organisation des Nations Unies pour le d6veloppement
industriel (13 f6vrier 1975)
12.   Burundi Alternative Energy - Peat (March 31, 1976)
13.   La tourbe,  Une source d'energie pour le Burundi
14.   Elements pour l'estimation des coats pour la construction des
routes dans la montagne - Ministere de l'agriculture, de l'6levage
et du developpement rural, Departement du genie rural et de l'hydro-
climatologie
15.   Manuel de pratique des chefs de chantier par Paul Abela et Alan Heap
- BIT (novembre 1976)
16.   Rapport surI le sous-secteur forestier, J.G. Devitt (juin 1977)
D.     Forest Legislation in Burundi
1.    Creation d'un groupe de travail preparatoire a la r6daction
d'un code forestier (r6f 357/1.011/7.1.7 - 24/6/1975)
2.    Proposition d'un decret pour le commerce du bois (1976)
3.    Proposition de modification du d6cret forestier
(ref 758/1.011/7.1.4 - 18/10/1976)
4.    Cooperation frangaise pour la r6daction d'un code forestier
(r6f 38/1;011/7.1.4 - 18/1/1977)
5.    L6gislation en matiere de cr6ation de boisements individuels
(r6f 129/1;075/7.1.4 - 18/2/1977)
6.    L6gislation existante



- 51 -
E.     Maps
1.    Liste des 30 communes 'a reboiser - Ministere de l'agriculture
et de 1'6levage, D6partement des affaires foncieres, Division
cadastre
2.    Zones a vocation forestiere, Mission forestiere Crete Zaire-Nil
(1974)
3.    Perimetre boisement Mageyo
May 8, 1979






BURUNDIA
FORESTRY PROJECT                                                            .   W                             A
(3ho   Naircuo lCaplci                        EriariripFaresia                         -pt;          a  ;'                                                                     faXDNd   or
0    Pr 1cipal Foens T.                     Pr.,ect Areps lE-oairprua)                                                  .'
Main Rooda                   2RA    Prciect Areas (Pire)                T         ,                      f            . a    <    '4ei   ,
Commure Boundaries                    Ruro Nurs,r -                                       r                                      ' -
Arrordiaarearn Bcca'icrass            Oigcang Factar.                          \            KK5.0DaAc  4-~              s d tE '4'   r"'t 
K*CNDOY'k
-   -   ?rccinne Bnurccriss                     [A., FFD2                                         a ff   , r-:a-,                 .)( .        -
crC0                      -   -    arerranorral Fr  ne7rlei              Prci   Under Srudn  /                                   * .'n                  a.          4 ,       )- U3
Ricers                .            -    .sbu    lo Proecl-'
Berg,uin/Scudi Arabic              (                 rud                    .     < ;            J
||N T E G A  >(       \    \BU5        
9r ~~afive  N-'t~ )'S42 NT94 EGA                                                                                               rBUSON
1'X                  Aj }  ^ i~    r ~-  <s_t                                                          K   REG O  aB UMB] BUUBA
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
I~~~~~~~BSG
Ab  k                                  Ar                                                                            G   A 0                  C   N
BUGANDA                                /              r             N,.  I   H   ;        T AWG      A              - ,  'ank\ec
N~~~~~~~
AH -
< \ yf ~~~~~~~-    U                               Y   EKN D11)JtNYA                                                       PSrg   b ,.  
FE                    AU H .,IAIRABA".
NI~~~~~
}~~~~~~~~ .                                                      .  //  7ara ni                                                                     NPN
\  , B U R A M  B A  e  .   vgV  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9  4    |'AG   J 
A  N   k A                   YlC-kNAf..     ~Bllu/od Aul
RE                                                  Qyfw                 a R
R U /  |                       tDIstzoT,                    /           4  
tYABIHANG  G."                                                                          TAt*ZAN  A
4'JO                                                       g                                                                              /  '                           :            >  z      n w~~~~~~~~~~EG 
29'Q                                   29 ' 3Q'                     rO pomc                    3Q AKAMBQ'



