                                                   CONFORMED COPY




                                SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 14 BU




Special Action Credit Agreement
                    (Forestry   Project)



                          between


                   REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI


                            and



          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
     as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
           established with funds contributed by
   the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY




                   Dated June 1, 1979
                               SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 14 BU


                  SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as
ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Action Account established with funds
contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY.

     WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
                                                                of
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;

     (B) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for assis-
tance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of a project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Administrator has determined that such assistance would be
in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement of May 2, 1978
referred to above;

      (C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
                                                         and IDA
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower
                                                          IDA is
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement)
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to four million three hundred thousand dollars
($4,300,000) (hereinafter called the IDA Credit);

     (D) the Borrower intends to contract from the French Repub-
lic, acting through its  Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration, a grant
(hereinafter called the FAC Grant) in an amu,nt equivalent
to about $1,860,000 to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the FAC Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and FAC;

      (E) the Borrower has requested the United Nations Develop-
ment Programme to assist the Borrower in financing the training
included in the Project through a grant of $701,650 (hereinafter
called the UNDP Grant) to be made available under an agreement
between the UNDP, the Borrower and the Food and Agriculture
Organization (hereinafter called the UNDP Grant Agreement); and
                                  - 2 -


      WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter
 alia of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit to
 the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;

      NOW THEREFORE   the   parties hereto hereby agree    as   follows:

                                ARTICLE I

                   General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01, The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the In,ernational Development
                                                     Association,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):

     (a) the term "Association",      wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International   Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special    Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action   Credit Agreement;

     (b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action
                                                       Credit",
respectively;

     (c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03,       4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and

     (d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.

     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
                                 - 3 -


Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom;

      (b)   "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
ment; and

      (c) "DWF" means the Department of Waters and Forests in the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Develop-
ment.

                             ARTICLE II

                       The Special Action Credit

     Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower
on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, the following currency amounts:

    One million four
    hundred sixty-
    seven thousand           Belgian francs        (BFl,467,000);

    One hundred eighty-
    three thousand           Danish kroner         (DK183,000);

     Seven hundred five
     thousand               Deutsche marks         (DM705,000);

    Seven hundred forty-
    six thousand            French francs          (FF746,000);

    One thousand six
    hundred                  Irish pounds          (Irkl,600);

    Eighty-six million
    five hundred thirteen
    thousand              Italian lire             (ItL86,513,000);

    Forty-six thousand      Luxembourg francs      (LF 46,000);

    One hundred ninety-
    five thousand           Netherlands guilders (Dfl 195,000); and

    One hundred seventy-
    nine thousand eight
    hundred                 Pounds sterling        (il79,800).
      Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of the Special Action Credit
 may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
 provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
 be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
 the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
 shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
 goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
 of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.

       (b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
 tures: (i) in the currency of the Borrower, or (ii) for goods
 produced in,  or services supplied from, (A) any of the Member
 States and (B) any developing country which is a member of the
 International Development Association and could be the recipient
 of a special action credit, as determined by the Administrator.

     (c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.

      Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts with-
drawn from the Credit Account and outstanding from time to time
The amounts of service charge in various currencies so found, and
additional service charges (if    any) payable pursuant to Section
3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be payable in the currency
of the United States of America, or in another currency selected
by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph (b) of this Section, after their conversion into such
currency on the basis of exchange rates determined in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4.05 of the General Conditions.
                               - 5 -


      (b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible or
freely exchangeable by the International Development Association
for currencies of other members of the International Development
Association for the purposes of its operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currency as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of such
notice, service charges shall be payable in such other currency.

     Secoon 2.06. Service charges shall   be payable   semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

     Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1,
1989 and ending May 1, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.

      (b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall be
found by multiplying the total amount in each currency so with-
drawn by the applicable installment percentage as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to each payment
date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of fractional cur-
rency amounts.

     (c) If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the Administrator shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been withdrawn in
the currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.

     (d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Borrower
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal required under this Agree-
ment upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds therefor in
                                - 6 -


a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator shall be acting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower
shall be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extent that the Administrator has
received such payment in the currency or currencies required.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of
the Project through DWF and Parts B and C of the Project through
its  Director General of Agriculture with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, forestry and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.

      (b) Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower
shall establish and thereafter maintain a Project revolving
fund, to be managed by the Project Manager referred to in para-
graph (c) of this Section under the direct control of the Director
of Waters and Forests of the Borrower, from which the administra-
tive expenses incurred on account of the Project shall be paid.
The Borrower shall ensure that on the first   day of each calendar
quarter not less than $200,000 equivalent will be available in the
fund.

      (c) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain
within its DWF a Project Management Unit responsible for the
establishment and operation of the nurseries and plantations under
Part A of the Project. Such Unit will include the positions of
Pr.,ject Manager,  Deputy Project Manager, two silviculturists,
three deputy silviculturists and an accountant, each with terms of
reference and requirements for candidates' qualifications and
experience which shall have been approved by the Administrator, as
well as competent support staff in adequate numbers. Such positions
shall be filled following exchanges of views between the Borrower
and the Administrator on the proposed candidates.

     Section 3.02. The terms of reference for each of the studies
to be carried out under Part C of the Project shall require the
concurrence of the Administrator befo-:e the start of each such
study.
                                - 7 -


     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insur-
ance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.

     (b) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project.

     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Adminis-
trator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations,   reports,  contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Admin-
istrator shall reasonably request.

      (b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii)     shall enable the Administrator's
accredited representatives   to visit   the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in     the  Project   and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the     Special  Action Credit and any
relevant records and documents;   (iii)  shall  prepare  and furnish to
the Administrator not later than March    31 in  each  year a report on
the progress of the training carried out       under  Parts  B and C of
the Project during the immediately preceding         year;   (iv) shall
provide the Administrator during the Project            implementation
period: (A) with semiannual reports on the progress in the carry-
ing out of the Project; and (B) not later than three months after
the end of each fiscal year, with an annual report on the progress
in the carrying out of the Project, all such reports to be of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably
request; and (v) shall furnish to the Administrator at regular
intervals all such information as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
                                - 8 -


      (c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
and the Administrator of their respective obligations under the
Special Action Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Special Action Credit.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take    or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to       acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect      of land as shall be
required for the establishment and operation    of the nurseries and
plantations under Part A of the Project.

     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Administrator for its approval detailed planting programs
for the eucalyptus and pine plantations referred to under Part
A of the Project prior to the commencement of planting thereunder.

                            ARTICLE IV

                          Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures described in Categories (1) and (2) of the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure.

      (b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Administrator's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
                               - 9 -


       (c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate accounts
 referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Administrator; (ii) furnish to the Administrator as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, an opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds of
the Special Action Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditures have been used to make
payments for goods received, or works or services performed, and
that such goods, works and services were eligible for financing
under this Agreement and were used in the carrying out of the
Project; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such other infor-
mation concerning said accounts, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Administrator shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the nurseries and
plantations established under Part A of the Project to be operated
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, and shall cause
their respective buildings, equipment, plantings, roads and other
facilities to be adequately maintained, and the necessary repairs
and renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropri-
ate administrative, financial, forestry and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.

     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) sell the seedlings
produced by the nurseries establ'ished under Part A (1) of the
Project at prices adequate to recover their full production costs
(excluding only expatriate management costs) subject to ensuring
adequate incentives to farmers for tree planting and shall consult
periodically with the Association on the levels of such prices;
and (ii)  introduce by December 31, 1980, a system of charges for
all forest products regulated by the Borrower, setting said
charges at such levels as shall be adequate to progressively
cover the full production costs of forest products, taking into
account the need to protect forest resources.

     Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall at least once every
year consult with the Administrator on its general pricing and
marketing policies that apply to its forestry sub-sector.
                                -   10 -



      (b) The Borrower shall ensure that the stumpage rates
charged for wood produced by the plantations established under
Part A of the Project shall be sufficient to recover the full
investment, operation and maintenance costs of the plantations.
Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower shall, before
June 30, 1984, or such later date as the Administrator may agree,
consult with the Administrator on the marketing and pricing
arrangements that shall apply to the eucalyptus wood produced
by the plantation at Mageyo and on the marketing, processing and
pricing arrangements that shall apply to the pine wood produced
by the plantation at Vyanda.

                               ARTICLE V

                     Remedies of the Administrator

     Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:

           (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                 of any grant, loan or credit (including the IDA
                 Credit, the FAC Grant and the UNDP Grant) made to
                 the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                 have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                 whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                 agreement providing therefor; or

         (ii)    any such loan or credit shall have become due and
                 payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

      (b)  The foregoing shall not apply if: (i)  such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its    obligations under
such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.

     Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
                                 -   11 -



                               ARTICLE VI


                    Effective Date; Termination


     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Special Action
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.

     Section 6.02. The date September 5, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Special Action Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.

                            ARTICLE VII


             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses


     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following 'addresses are specified   for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

    For the Borrower:

         Ministry of Finance
         P.O. Box 1830
         Bujumbura, Burundi

         Cable address:                     Telex:

              MINFIN                              MINAFFEXT 65 Buja
              Bujumbura, Burundi
                               - 12   -



    For the Administrator:

         Administrator of the Special Action Account
          (International Development Association)
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America

         Cable address:                       Telex:

              INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
                                                   64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.


             REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI



             By Is/   Clement Sambira
                                          Authorized Representative



             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
             as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
             established with funds contributed by
             the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY



             By /s/   W. Wapenhans
                                            Regional Vice President
                                                     Eastern Africa
                                  - 13   -



                                SCHEDULE 1

                    Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the
                           Special Action Credit

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Action Credit to each
Category and the percentage for items so to be financed in each
Category:

                              Amount of the
                          Special Action Credit           % of
                          Allocated (Expressed        Expenditures
      Category           in Dollar Equivalents)      to be Financed

(1)   Civil works                800,000             90%
      (buildings)

(2)   Studies and                300,000             100% of foreign
      trials                                         expenditures and
                                                     90% of local ex-
                                                     penditures

(3)   Unallocated                100,000


                       TOTAL   1,200,000


2.   The total dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall be
adjusted from time to time as required to reflect the aggregate
dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn currency amounts in the
Credit Account; the unallocated dollar amount shall be adjusted
accordingly.

3.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of, and for goods produced in or services supplied
from, (i) any of the Member States and (ii) any developing
country, other than the Borrower, which is a member of the Inter-
national Development Association and could be the recipient of a
Special Action Credit, as determined by the Administrator; and
                              -   14 -


     (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and f or goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.

4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit decreases or increases,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Administrator.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

6.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Action Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Action Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all      expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Action Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii)  if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall,   reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.

7.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Special Action
Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the Admin-
istrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Administrator under the Special
                              - 15 -


Action Credit Agreement,  by notice to the Borrower,   cancel such
currency amounts of the Special Action Credit as, in the Adminis-
trator's reasonable opinion, represent the currency amounts
which would otherwise have been eligible for withdrawal out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit in respect of such expendi-
tures.
                               - 16   -



                             SCHEDULE 2

                     Description of the Project

     The Project is the first stage of the Borrower's long-term
program for the development of basic forestry services and planta-
tions supplying fuel wood, building poles and timber and is
designed to assist the Borrower in establishing long-term produc-
tion and marketing policies for its forestry sub-sector. The
Project consists in the following:

Part A:

     1.   Establishment of 30 nurseries at the communal level to
produce eucalyptus seedlings for sale to communes and private
individuals; staffing of the nurseries with staff capable of
providing forestry extension services to communes and farmers.

     2.   Establishment of a 2,000 ha short-rotation eucalyptus
plantation at Mageyo to supply charcoal, firewood and construction
poles to the population of Bujumbura.

     3.   Establishment of a 5,000        ha pine   plantation at Vyanda
(Bururi) to produce saw timber.

     4.   Construction of offices, workshops           and housing and
the procurement of vehicles and equipment.

Part B:

      In-service training of local Project management and adminis-
trative staff and training of local staff for forestry services.

Part C:

     Studies of Burundi's energy use and needs, trials of new
techniques to produce charcoal and training of local operators and
supervisors in their use, development of new designs for cooking
stoves, and preparation of future forestry projects.




    The Project is   expected to be completed by        September 1984.
                               - 17 -


                             SCHEDULE 3

                             Procurement

 A.   Competitive Bidding

      Civil works for the consttction of offices and housing shall
 be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
 satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of competitive
 bidding advertised locally.

B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Administrator

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

     With respect to all contracts for civil works    estimated   to
cost more than the equivalent of $20,000:

     (a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Administrator's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.

      (b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in
sufficient time for its  review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Administrator shall reasonably request.

     (c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.

     (d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
                              - 18 -


2.    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly after its   execution and prior to the submission to the
Administrator of the first    application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Admi-istrator    shall reasonably request.  The Administrator
shall, if it   determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.

3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.

C.   Procurement without Contracting

     Civil works for the construction of workshops shall be
carried out by force account.
