INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                             1818 H Street, N.W.                    Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                               Washington, D.C. 20433   Fax: (202) 522-0916
                                                                                        Email: ipanel@worldbank.org


   Eimi Watanabe
   Chairperson




                                                                                   JPN REQUEST RQ13/09

                                                                                              July 16, 2014


                      MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
                   OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                      Request for Inspection

          NIGERIA: Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project (P071340)

   Notice of Non Registration and Panel's Observations of the First Pilot to Support Early Solutions


          Please find attached a copy of the Memorandum from the Chairperson of the Inspection Panel
  entitled "Request for Inspection - Nigeria: Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project
  (P071340) - Notice of Non Registration and Panel's Observations of the First Pilot to Support Early
  Solutions", dated July 16, 2014 and its attachments. This Memorandum was also distributed to the
  President of the International Development Association.




  Attachment

  cc.: The President
       International Development Association
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                             1818 H Street, N.W.                    Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                               Washington, D.C. 20433   Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                                                        Email: ipanel@worldbank.org

   Eimi Watanabe
   Chairperson




                                                                                   IPN REQUEST RQ13/09

                                                                                              July 16, 2014


                            MEMORANDUM TO THE PRESIDENT
                   OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                      Request for Inspection

          NIGERIA: Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project (P071340)

   Notice of Non Registration and Panel's Observations of the First Pilot to Support Early Solutions



          Please find attached a copy of the Memorandum from the Chairperson of the Inspection Panel
  entitled "Request for Inspection - Nigeria: Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project
  (P07 J340) - Notice of Non Registration and Panel's Observations of the First Pilot to Support Early
  Solutions" dated July 16, 2014 and its attachments. This Memorandum was also distributed to the
  Board of the Executive Directors of the International Development Association.




  Attachment

  cc.: Executive Directors and Alternates
       International Development Association
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                         1818 H Street, N.W.                                Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                                    Washington, D.C. 20433      Fax: (202) 522-0916
                                                                    U.S.A.                      Email: ipanel@worldbank.org


   Eimi Watanabe
   Chairperson
                                                                                             IPN REQUEST RQ 13/09

                                                                                                            July16, 2014



                           MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
                           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                        Request for Inspection
              Nigeria: Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project (P071340)

                                      Notice of Non-Registration and
                      Panel’s Observations of the First Pilot to Support Early Solutions


      A. Background

      1.      This note presents the results of the first Inspection Panel (“the Panel”) case under its
      “Pilot Approach to Support Early Solutions for Request for Inspection” (“the Pilot”).1 On
      September 30, 2013, the Panel received a Request for Inspection of the Nigeria: Lagos
      Metropolitan Development and Governance Project (P071340) (“the Project”), and after
      consulting with the Requesters and Management, the Panel decided to consider this case under
      the Pilot approach.

      2.     In addition to presenting the results of the case in the context of the Pilot, this note also
      provides insights into the issues that arose during the Panel’s assessment of the case and the
      lessons that emerged from it.

      B. Request for Inspection

      3.      The Request for Inspection (“the Request”, attached as Annex I) was submitted by the
      Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC) in Lagos, on behalf of “individuals,
      families and groups living in the Badia area of Lagos State” alleging that the Project has caused
      the “impoverishment and insecurity” of Badia residents, a vulnerable slum community in Lagos,
      as a result of evictions that have occurred under the Project “without prior consultation, notice,
      compensation or resettlement.”

      1
       Under the newly adopted Pilot Approach (IPN’s Operating Procedures, Annex 1, Pilot Approach for Early
      Solutions, para. 8), the Panel is required to verify that the Request meets basic requirements for Registration, but
      based on agreement from both Requesters and Management to seek an opportunity to resolve the concerns, the Panel
      can postpone its decision to register the Request and instead initiate a Pilot Approach.
                                                        -2-


4.       The Requesters believe that they have suffered serious harm as a result of actions and
omissions of the World Bank. They state that the Bank is “clearly obliged to ensure that the
project is implemented in accordance with its own Operational Policies and to hold Lagos State
to its commitments under the LMDGP Project Agreement.” Specifically, the Requesters state that
on March 6, 2012, over 100 structures in Badia were demolished to make way for the
construction of a drainage canal built as part of the Project and that a retroactive Resettlement
Action Plan (“RAP”), completed in December 2012, provided minimal financial assistance to
124 Project Affected people (“PAPs”) which was “insufficient to offset the harms suffered,
especially in light of the delay of nearly nine months.”

5.     They add that on February 23, 2013, again, hundreds of structures were demolished in the
area of Badia East immediately adjoining the canal mentioned above, forcefully evicting about
9.000 inhabitants.2 According to the Requesters, both incidences occurred without prior
consultation, notice, compensation or resettlement and resulted in their further impoverishment.

6.     They add that since February 23, 2013, no relief or emergency aid measures have been
provided to mitigate the extreme suffering of thousands of affected people. The Request refers to
a number of interactions in which these concerns have been raised with World Bank
representatives between March 2012 and July 2013.

C. Project

7.     The Project’s development objective (PDO) was to increase sustainable access to basic
urban services through investments in critical infrastructure. The Project was approved by the
Bank’s Board on July 6, 2006. The Project was restructured on July 5, 2011, the PDO was not
changed, although some activities under the Project components and results framework were
revised. The Project closed on September 30, 2013.

8.      The Request relates to two sub-components A.1 and A.2 of the Project. Sub-component
A.1 focused on building the capacity of the Lagos State Urban Renewal Authority to assess,
develop, plan and coordinate the execution of a city-wide upgrading program, through the
execution of the upgrading subprojects in nine of the largest slums identified in 1995 (Agege,
Ajegunle, Amukoko, Badia , Iwaya, Makoko, Ilaje, Bariga, Ijeshatedo/Itire). Sub-component A.2
planned to develop a long-term technical solution to flooding, including building the highest
priority civil works investments to mitigate flooding, the establishment of an efficient
Geographic Information Systems database management, a rational reassessment of drain designs
to develop a prioritized construction program, a deferred maintenance program to clear the large
volumes of solid waste, silt, and vegetation built up over the years, the development of a routine
maintenance program to mitigate the extensive flooding that annually plagues the city, the
provision of technical assistance and training for the Office of Drainage Services, and conflict


2
  The Panel was informed that some of the evicted families or their forefathers had been allocated land and relocated
to Badia by the Federal Government from the location taken decades ago by the Federal Government to construct
the current National Theatre. While these families do not have a Certificate of Occupation, they possess Letters of
Allotment issued by the Federal Government, and on that basis, are contesting their eviction through the national
courts.
                                               -3-

mitigation. The Panel is informed that this eviction is not part of the Project, but was undertaken
to vacate the land for a housing project.

D. Notice of Receipt, Adoption of the Pilot Approach, and Panel Interim Note

9.      At the time of receipt of the Request, the Requesters informed the Panel that their key
concern was to ensure that a retroactive RAP relating to the 2013 evictions would be finalized,
funded and properly implemented. The Panel’s initial review established that the Request met the
admissibility criteria. On October 31, 2013, Bank Management in turn provided the Panel with
an Action Plan (Annex II). The note included actions to address the concerns of the Requesters
and a timeline for implementation of compensation payments.

10.    The Requesters agreed to the Action Plan provided that: (i) the 2012 RAP, prepared after
the evictions of March 2012, is disclosed; (ii) the most recent revision of the 2013 RAP (or
addendum to the 2012 RAP as was originally indicated), is disclosed along with related
documents; and (iii) a clarification about the timetable for the setting up of the grievance
mechanism. The Requesters indicated to the Panel that they expected no fewer than 350 people
who may have been wrongfully left out of the list of affected people eligible for compensation to
be submitting grievances. The Panel communicated to Management these three important points
needed for effective engagement and dialogue. Management acknowledged these points.

11.    In taking the decision to apply the Pilot approach, the Panel took into consideration the
following factors:

       (a)   The criteria for undertaking the Pilot Approach were fully met, namely;
              the issue of concern being raised is specific and focused in nature;
              availability of a time-bound Management Action Plan to resolve problems, with
                Management’s commitment of financial and supervision resources until the
                completion of the Action Plan; and,
              the agreement of Requesters and Management to pursue this course of action.

       (b)   The urgency of the situation and the need for compensation, given that 9,000
             destitute persons evicted from their homes had not yet received any monetary
             compensation; and,

       (c)   The possibility of ensuring prompt payment of the compensation to the evicted
             persons through intensive deployment of the Project’s financial and staff resources
             and Management’s continued supervision, even though the Project had alread y
             closed.

12.     The Panel thus informed the Board of Executive Directors on November 11, 2013
through a “Notice of Receipt of Request” that in accordance with the steps set out in the Pilot
approach, it would ask the Requesters and Management to engage in direct dialogue on these
matters, and to keep it updated on progress in addressing the concerns of the Requesters. In line
with the Pilot approach, the Requesters retained the right at any time to declare their non-
satisfaction and request the Panel to register their Request.
                                                    -4-

13.     On March 20, 2014, the Panel informed the Board in an Interim Note that the agreed
actions were still being implemented,3 and that Requesters and Management were continuing
their engagement with each other and with the authorities to resolve the outstanding issues. The
Panel also informed the Board that Management expected the majority of the affected people to
receive compensation by the end of April 2014, and that an effective grievance process would be
in place to properly address residual claims. The Panel informed the Board that it would wait for
the implementation of these actions, and would convey its decision by May 2014.
E. Site Visit

14.    In order to assess the progress achieved under the Pilot, a Panel team consisting of
Chairperson Eimi Watanabe, Panel Member Gonzalo Castro de la Mata, then Acting Executive
Secretary Dilek Barlas, and Senior Operations Officer Serge Selwan visited Lagos and Abuja
between May 27 and May 30, 2014.

15.     The team met with the Requesters, their Representative (SERAC), and 6 out of 8 of the
designated community representatives.4 SERAC and the community representatives also guided
the team through a site visit and a meeting with approximately 80 additional residents of Badia
East. The team was also received by officials of the Lagos State Government including the
Attorney General, the members of the inter-departmental Technical Committee constituted for
the purpose of resolving the Badia evictions, and officials of the Lagos Community Mediation
Centers (CMC), in operation since 1999 and which act as the Grievance Redress Mechanism
(GRM) for the purposes of the Pilot. In Abuja, the team met with the Director of the
International Economic Relations Department of the Federal Ministry of Finance, and the World
Bank staff.

16.     The meetings with SERAC and community representatives in the SERAC office and the
visit to the Badia East community, lasting the entire day, gave the Panel an opportunity for
formal as well as more informal interaction with SERAC and community representatives and
members, and the Panel was able to observe the confidence that the community representatives
placed on SERAC.

17.     The Panel wishes to express its gratitude to all of the above people who generously
allocated their time and provided detailed information during the meetings, site visit and through
other means. The Panel also wishes to record its appreciation to Management, who has kept the
Panel informed during this process, responded immediately to requests for information, and
made excellent arrangements for the Panel’s visit.




3
  Communication dated January 28, 2014, from SERAC to the World Bank to “ formally convey our no-objection to
the compensation package as proposed by the Lagos State Government and accepted by the Badia East community ’s
representatives.”
4
  The other two representatives were not available that day because of personal commitments.
                                                   -5-

F. Events since the 2013 February Demolitions

18.     According to the Project’s Implementation Completion Report (ICR),5 following the
February demolitions the Bank advised the Government of Lagos State to adopt and apply the
provisions of the Project Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF). In its meetings with the Lagos
Government, the Panel learned that a Technical Committee consisting of representatives of
relevant Government departments was inaugurated in June 2013 to prepare and implement a
RAP based on the RPF. The Committee held a meeting with affected people in early July 2013,
and later requested the two communities of Badia East (Ajeromi and Oke Ilu-Eri) to select four
representatives each. These eight community representatives then submitted lists of affected
people to the Technical Committee, which became the baseline data for the RAP.

19.    The community representatives and the Technical Committee interacted on the
compensation amounts between September and December of 2013, which were later approved
by the Lagos Government Executive Council. These amounts were agreed by the community
representatives on December 30, 2013. On February 21, 2014, the Lagos State Government
informed the general public through a newspaper that the RAP for the Badia East community
designed specifically for the February 2013 evictions would be disclosed at the Local Council
Development Area. The RAP was made available for 21 days in hard copy and was also
disclosed on the website of the Lagos State Government. Following disclosure, the Lagos
Government started compensation payments. The Panel learned that the beneficiary information
forms used by the Lagos State Government to process claims included a clause through which
acceptance of the payments represent a renunciation of any future claims related to the evictions.

20.     On March 8, 2014, the Panel was informed by Management of a delay in compensation
payments due to the inability of certain affected people to provide State-issued identification
cards. Management also informed the Panel that the Attorney General of the Lagos State
Government requested the Lagos State Resident Registration Agency to issue identification cards
to the affected people; in cases where some were unable to provide any form of identification,
their compensation payments would be processed on the basis of affidavits from any recognized
community leaders or members. Management also informed the Panel that the Technical
Committee would continue to address unresolved claims, including approximately 140 tenants
identified by SERAC that were earlier omitted from the main list.

21.      On April 24, 2014, Management informed the Panel that as of April 11, 2014, out of a
total of 1,933 tenants, 1,554 had received their compensation payments (i.e., 80%), while another
214 were cleared for payment, and an additional 63 tenants who had claimed to have been
omitted from the original list, had also been cleared and paid compensation. Furthermore,
Management informed the Panel that community representatives contacted by a Bank mission
had expressed satisfaction and confirmed that most of the omitted affected people were included
under the GRM; efforts were also ongoing to identify and validate any other affected people who
may have been omitted by the GRM. Management also informed the Panel that by April 28,
2014, the Technical Committee would submit a time bound action plan for the completion of the
RAP implementation and would start providing the Bank with a monthly progress report on its

5
 Implementation Completion and Results Report, Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project, dated
March 24, 2014.
                                                 -6-

implementation. Management further informed the Panel that the Lagos State Government would
provide training opportunities at the State Vocational centers for PAPs as part of livelihood
restoration and that the Technical Committee would sensitize those interested on the procedures
for accessing these opportunities.

22.     Following Management’s communication, the Panel contacted SERAC to confirm the
information it had received. On the same day, SERAC confirmed that there was a marked
improvement in terms of compensation payments being made to affected people. However,
SERAC was unable to provide an exact figure, stating that they were not being kept fully
informed of the numbers of affected people paid. Concerning the GRM, SERAC confirmed that
it was in place. During its visit to Lagos, the Panel met representatives from the CMC, which
was functioning as a grievance mechanism in the context of the Pilot. As such, it was intended
that CMC receive and attempt to resolve complaints from identified claimants that have not yet
received payment. The CMC was expected to direct any new claimants that have not been
verified to the Technical Committee.

23.     The information received by the Panel from Management on June 27, 2014, indicated
that a majority of the affected people on the original list had received their compensation
payments. Management also indicated that they received complaints from community members
and SERAC regarding 126 structure owners (100 large and 26 medium) whom are yet to receive
payments despite being cleared and processed. Management noted that the Project Finance
Management Unit, with the support of Bank’s financial management mission, is reviewing the
financial transaction process to understand the constraints and to establish measures to clear the
pending payments. Furthermore, Management included next steps to expedite the process for
resolving all pending cases and bringing the RAP to a successful close.

24.     On July 2, 2014, the Panel received a letter dated June 25, 2014, signed by two of the
original three Requesters,6 stating that instead of SERAC, they were now designating a Barrister
to represent them, and that they now wished the case to be registered. On July 11, the Panel
received a communication from the Barrister, outlining their reasoning for requesting the Panel
to register the Request (Annex III).

25.     On July 10, 2014, the Panel received a communication from SERAC conveying “the
Badia East community’s expression of satisfaction with the implementation of the Resettlement
Action Plan for Badia East thus far,” and their “expression of satisfaction with the pilot process
of the World Bank Inspection Panel.” They state also that although there are outstanding
commitments to be met under the RAP, the community is satisfied with the seriousness that the
Lagos state government and the Bank Management have demonstrated towards resolving
outstanding issues arising from the February 13, 2013, forced eviction in Badia East. Attached to
this communication was a letter signed by five community representatives and the third
Requester, indicating their “wish to state categorically that the intents of the letter (in reference
to the letter dated July 2, designating the Barrister as representative) did not emanate from our
community as there was no consultation whatsoever with stakeholders before such
representation was made and as such we disassociate ourselves from same” (Annex IV).


6
    One of whom is a community representative.
                                              -7-

26.     On July 14, 2014, the Panel received a communication from Management, with a
commitment of actions to complete the outstanding issues, including (i) the processing of all
project affected people who are yet to be cleared for payment (July 9-11); (ii) the resolution of
all outstanding grievances (July 14-25); (iii) ascertaining prompt follow-up of names cleared for
payment and full monitoring to enable payment to all respective beneficiaries (by end of July);
(iv) allow participation in vocational training opportunities in 17 centers across Lagos State
(August 1-18); and, (v) ensure a final report is prepared by the Technical Committee with the
help of the CMC and Project Financial Management Unit (August 18-31) (Annex V).
Management further committed to maintain oversight and submit a report to the Board of
Executive Directors by the full conclusion of the payments and final RAP implementation.
G. Panel’s Observations Regarding the Evictions and Further Actions by Management

27.     The Panel makes the following observations based on its interactions with the community
representatives, Requesters and their representatives, Government officials, Bank Management,
the Panel’s observations from the site visit, and its review of correspondence and additional
information. Although the Panel did not conduct an investigation or attempted to review
Management’s compliance or otherwise with applicable Bank Policies and Procedures, it notes
the following regarding the results of the Pilot, as well as the process itself.

       (a)   The evictions in Badia East resulted in very serious harm to thousands of people
             who lost their homes and belongings overnight and with little or no warning. These
             people are among the poorest citizens of the State of Lagos, and lack the capacity to
             effectively complain or seek redress from government authorities. Furthermore,
             their condition after the evictions was desperate.

       (b)   The Panel recognizes the efforts and accomplishments of the Bank throughout the
             implementation of the Pilot process to ensure that funds were disbursed in a speedy
             manner to affected people. Management deployed resources, and significant
             supervision attention to implement an Action Plan that has so far resulted in
             approximately 84.3% of the affected people being paid, with an additional 5%
             cleared for payment. These actions have provided important relief to most of the
             people that were evicted.

       (c) In the words of the Requesters representative (SERAC), the compensation payments
           may not have materialized without the Pilot. SERAC expressed their recognition of
           the effectiveness of the Pilot process in providing compensation payments to the
           affected community in a relatively short time compared to a full investigation. As
           noted below, SERAC, in 1998, presented the Panel an earlier Request for Inspection
           relating to another Bank-financed Project.

       (d) Nonetheless, a major shortcoming of the implementation process has been that the
           RAP was prepared and implemented ex-post (“retroactively”). While the 2012
           evictions took place for drainage works under the Project, the Panel understands that
           the 2013 Badia demolitions were not part of a planned resettlement activity under the
                                                      -8-

              Project. Under the provisions of the Financing Agreement,7 however, for both the
              2012 and 2013 evictions, the process should have followed the principles of the
              Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (see below).

        (e)    The retroactive nature of the RAP implied that no socio-economic studies were
               conducted with the involvement of potentially affected people, which should have
               included the results of a survey listing the occupants of the affected areas and the
               standard characteristics of the households to be resettled, in addition to the baseline
               information on their livelihoods or standards of living. The lack of such a survey
               made it challenging for legitimate claimants to stake their claims when they had lost
               proper identification; likewise, it also made it difficult to separate legitimate
               claimants from those that attempted to take advantage of the situation by claiming
               payments to which they were not entitled.

        (f)    This retroactive RAP process also meant that prior consultation on resettlement was
               entirely lacking, and the process of communities being consulted through selected
               community representatives took place only after the RAP document was being
               prepared. After the evictions, it is not surprising that many people had to leave
               Badia East and immediately seek alternatives for housing and jobs elsewhere.
               Identifying and consulting affected people under these circumstances proved
               extremely challenging.

        (g)    Furthermore, without a proper baseline it is very difficult to assess whether or not
               the payments received are fair and sufficient to restore the livelihoods of affected
               people as mandated in Bank Policy. Many of the affected people interviewed by the
               Panel in Badia East complained that payments were totally insufficient for them to
               restore their previous livelihoods. On the other hand, the Bank engaged two
               independent experts specifically to determine proper compensation amounts based
               on current market rates, and advised the Government accordingly.

        (h)    A key shortcoming in the implementation of this Project may have emanated from
               the contradiction between OP 4.12, Bank Policy on Involuntary Resettlement and
               state legislation. Bank Policy on Involuntary Resettlement, in paragraphs 15 and 16
               recognizes the eligibility for benefits of displaced persons “who have no
               recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are occupying,” but are given
               “resettlement assistance in lieu of compensation for the land they occupy, and other
               assistance, as necessary to achieve the objectives set out in this policy.” This is in
               contrast to the legislation of the State of Lagos, which considers anyone without a
               legal title to land as a squatter, and as a result would not have rights to
               compensation.

               According to the ICR,8 “there were material differences about the principles of the
               RPF. The State was uninterested to apply these principles on a large scale and in a

7
  Financing Agreement, Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project, Credit Number 4219 UNI,
between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the International Development Association, dated July 31, 2006 (the
“Financing Agreement”).
8
  ICR, para. 40.
                                                        -9-

                slum setting. Even though compliance with OP 4.12 was achieved under parallel
                Bank projects (within the transport portfolio for instance), material differences
                remained with the LMDGP and related to the notion of informality among poor and
                low-income squatters, many of which [were] migrants. While technical solutions
                could have been found to substantially limit the number of potential Project
                Affected people (PAPs) under the draining component, it appears that the State was
                uninterested to explore them. This could have been a function of the increase in own
                resources allowing the State to finance draining works itself or fundamental policy
                difference about OP 4.12 in a slum setting.”

                These divergent views resulted in a situation in which the proper implementation of
                safeguard provisions became very challenging from the start of the Project. The
                ICR notes that even after restructuring “works have proceeded and triggered
                demolition in several cases without prior RAPs.”9 This led to the Bank taking the
                decision in July 2012 to suspend all activities related to new sub-projects until an
                action plan to redress the situation was put in place.

         (i)    The Panel notes the incidences of past forceful evictions of slum dwellers in Lagos,
                including the forceful eviction of some 2,000 slum residents under the Drainage and
                Sanitation Project for which the Panel received a Request for Inspection in 1998.
                This may be partially the context in which the Financing Agreement for the current
                Project included a provision stating that “the Recipient shall cause the Project
                Implementing Entity to carry out city wide upgrading programs in accordance with
                acceptable principles including those of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP).”10
                Accordingly, the Lagos State Government committed, under the Financing
                Agreement, to abide by the principles of the Bank Policy on Involuntary
                Resettlement. Pursuant to the Bank’s policies (OP/BP 13.05 Policy on Supervision
                and OP/BP 10.00 Policy on Investment Project Financing), Management needs to
                ascertain that the Borrower is carrying out the Project activities in accordance with
                the Financing Agreement. The Panel also notes that the above noted obligation
                under the Financing Agreement continues until the repayment of the Credit.

                While the Panel commends Management’s intent to provide proper protection to
                involuntarily resettled people due to all city wide upgrading activities in Lagos
                through the inclusion of the above covenant in the Financing Agreement, given the
                potentially enormous numbers that may be involved and the complexity of
                resettlement actions, the past instances of forceful resettlement, and continued
                instances of demolitions under this Project, it is the Panel’s view that the
                enforcement of such a provision would have required substantive supportive
                measures, including a review of the provision in the context of a larger policy

9
 ICR, para. 41.
10
  The Financing Agreement, states that “such principles shall include the following: (i) involuntary resettlement
should be avoided where feasible; (ii) where it is not feasible to avoid involuntary resettlement, displaced persons
shall be meaningfully consulted and should have opportunities to participate in planning and implementing
resettlement programs; and (iii) displaced persons should be assisted in their efforts to improve their livelihoods
and standards of living or at least to restore them, in real terms, to pre-displacement levels.” See Schedule 2,
Project Execution, Section V, Other Undertakings, p. 11.
                                                    - 10 -

                   framework concerning illegal settlements, a concurrent commitment involving
                   capacity building, review of national and local legislation and other regulations, and
                   securing additional resources. In the absence of ensuring concrete measures that
                   enable the operationalization of the provision in the Financing Agreement, the
                   Panel believes that the Bank fell short of protecting the poor and vulnerable
                   communities against forceful evictions.

           (j)     Finally, the Panel notes that the ICR recommends a stand-alone case study “to
                   extract lessons learned from LMDGP in a more systematic manner, provide in-
                   depth analysis of the modalities of urban sector engagements in a mega-city like
                   Lagos, and make recommendations towards the structure and manner of
                   engagement in such settings.”11 The Panel fully endorses this recommendation and
                   suggests that such a case study analysis might be shared with the Board of
                   Executive Directors.

H. Lessons Learned for Future Pilots

28.      During its meetings with the Requesters representatives (SERAC), the Panel was
informed that the Lagos State Government initially denied the participation of SERAC in
meetings designed to formulate the RAP. Furthermore, SERAC was not formally informed about
any steps taken by the Lagos State Government in the context of the Pilot; it was only after Bank
Management’s intervention that SERAC was able to inform itself of the situation, thus remaining
a fairly “distant witness” in the process, even though it was the legal representative of the
Requesters. Towards the final stages of the Pilot, and following further direct intervention of
Management, SERAC was able to play a more direct and proactive role in the proceedings. As
stated earlier, the Panel observed the interaction between SERAC and the community, and the
latter’s expression of confidence in SERAC. The Panel also noted throughout the interaction
with SERAC that they consistently went back to ascertain the community’s wishes before
proceeding with the next step.

29.    An important lesson for future Pilots therefore is that the Panel needs to ensure that the
mandate that is given to the Requesters’ representative is made clear to all stakeholders,
especially government authorities, thus ensuring that they remain a full participant and
representative of the community and are well informed throughout implementation.

30.    The selection by the communities themselves of eight representatives was an important
process. There needs to be clearly defined and accepted procedures for consultation and
representation, and a willingness of all stakeholders to abide by the established process.

I. Conclusion and Proposed Actions Moving Forward

31.     The Panel carefully reviewed the issues of community representation due to conflicting
communications sent to the Panel as set forth in paragraphs 24-25 above. The Panel notes that
the initial Request for Inspection was submitted by the Social and Economic Rights Action
Center (SERAC) in Lagos, on behalf of “individuals, families and groups living in the Badia

11
     ICR, p. 23.
                                                        - 11 -

area of Lagos State”. The Panel also notes that the majority of the eight selected community
representatives expressed their satisfaction with the implementation of the Action Plan. While
the Panel’s Pilot process notes that the Panel will register the Request if the Requesters are not
satisfied with the process, in this particular instance, after ascertaining that the majority of the
community representatives expressed their satisfaction in writing and Management has taken
adequate measures to address the remaining concerns related to the implementation of the Action
Plan, the Panel has decided not to register the Request and thus conclude the Pilot process.12

32.    Overall, the Panel considers that the implementation of the Pilot approach provided an
opportunity to for the Lagos State Government and the Bank, together with SERAC, to speedily
work together, thus allowing them to effectively (if not always perfectly) provide immediate
compensation and thus relief to thousands of affected people. The Panel wishes to recognize and
appreciate the concerted effort made by Management, at all levels, in support of this outcome.

33.     In sum, the circumstances that prevailed under the Pilot were as follows: (i) there was an
urgent need for immediate relief, (ii) the evictions had already occurred and the population was
being dispersed, (iii) the Resettlement Action Plan was prepared retroactively under these
conditions, (iv) the project was already closed, and (v) there was a fundamental difference in the
perception that the Borrower and the Bank had regarding the affected people and their
entitlements. In this situation, the Bank and SERAC, working with the Project authorities, had
done their utmost to bring compensation to the affected individuals and families, and as of today,
some 84.3% have already received their payments, with a firm action plan to complete the
remainder. Thus, under these circumstances, in the Panel’s view, the decision to implement the
Pilot proved to be effective. However, the Panel recognizes that there were aspects of the Project
that fell short of Bank safeguard requirements, and that there are important lessons for future
projects involving resettlement in urban slums in a sustainable manner. Meanwhile, there have
also been lessons learnt by all sides from the Pilot process itself.

34.     In moving forward, however, and consistent with the decision to pursue the Pilot
approach, the Panel wishes to assure itself that the process set in motion can be completed to the
satisfaction of all claimants, and within a reasonable timeframe. To this end, the Panel notes the
following:

         (a)    Management’s firm commitment to maintain oversight to the full conclusion of the
                payments to the affected people, as spelt out in Management’s plan presented on
                July 14 (Annex V).

         (b)    Management’s commitment to inform the Board of Executive Directors on final
                RAP implementation.

         (c)    The Panel’s support for the proposal, as recommended in the ICR, to carry out a
                stand-alone case study to extract lessons learned from LMDGP in a more
                systematic manner, provide in-depth analysis of the modalities of urban sector


12
   As per the procedures of the Pilot, namely, “if the Requesters are satisfied that their concerns are being
successfully addressed, and they so inform the Panel in writing, the Panel will not register the Request, and will
issue a Notice of Non-Registration.”
                                              - 12 -

             engagements in a mega-city like Lagos, and make recommendations towards the
             structure and manner of engagement in such settings.

       (d)   As stated in the document outlining the Pilot approach, the results and effectiveness
             of the pilot will be assessed by the end of 2015. The modalities for such an
             independent assessment will be determined in consultation with Management and
             other stakeholders.

35.     In light of the foregoing, the Panel is not registering the Request for Inspection. The
Panel considers that the implementation of the above Pilot has been instrumental in
demonstrating the merits of a differentiated approach to certain Requests, and the value of
seeking early solutions, while at the same time drawing valuable insights and lessons for the
future implementation of Bank policies in specific situations.


                                         Yours Sincerely,




                                         Eimi Watanabe
                                          Chairperson




Mr. Jim Yong Kim, President
International Development Association

The Executive Directors and Alternates
International Development Association

Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)
Plot 758 Chief Thomas Adeboye Road, Isheri
Lagos, Nigeria

Barrister Kalu K. Obuba, Esq.
Obuba & Obuba Legal Practitioners
Plot 1950 Zone 5 Wuse, Copper House, No 4 Algiers Street,
Lagos, Nigeria
ANNEX I
                   REQUEST FOR INSPECTION
 In the Matter of the Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project
                             (Project ID: P071340)

TO:           Executive Secretary                  By email: ipanel@worldbank.org
              The Inspection Panel                           plallas@worldbank.org
              1818 H Street NW,
              Mail Stop: MC10-1007
              Washington, D.C. 20433
              U.S.A.

FILED BY:     Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)
              Counsel of record for members of the Badia community, Lagos
              Plot 758 Chief Thomas Adeboye Road
              Isheri, Lagos
              NIGERIA

We, the Social and Economic Right Action Center (SERAC), a Lagos-based non-
governmental, nonpartisan and voluntary initiative concerned with the promotion and
protection of social and economic rights in Nigeria, have been mandated by
individuals, families and groups living in the Badia area of Lagos State to file the
present Request for Inspection (Exhibit A – letter of consent from project-affected
persons from Badia East). In support of this Request, we state the following:

   1. The World Bank has financed the implementation of the Lagos Metropolitan
      Development and Governance Project (hereinafter referred to as LMDGP)
      with Project ID: P071340 in Lagos State, Nigeria. The LMDGP aims to
      increase sustainable access to basic urban services through investments in
      critical infrastructure. Amongst other objectives, through “urban upgrading”
      activities worth US$ 39.77 million, the LMDGP seeks to build the capacity of
      the Lagos State Urban Renewal Authority (LASURA) to assess, develop, plan
      and coordinate the execution of a city-wide upgrading program, through the
      execution of upgrading subprojects in nine of the city’s largest slums (as
      identified in 1995: Agege, Ajegunle, Amukoko, Badia, Iwaya, Makoko, Ilaje,
      Bariga, Ijeshatedo/Itire. In total, these nine slums cover over 760 hectares and
      are estimated to be home to over 1 million people. Some of these communities,
      including Badia and Ajegunle, are also host to LMDGP “drainage” activities.

   2. We understand that the Bank has the following policies and procedures, which
      were incorporated into the World Bank’s Project Agreement with Lagos State
      and are applicable to the LMDGP activities as well as to non-LMDGP city-
      wide urban upgrading activities, and are therefore apt and relevant to the
      consideration of the present Request for Inspection:

          a. Operational Policy (OP) 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement (December
             2001, revised February 2011) setting forth as the overall objectives of
             the Bank’s policy on involuntary resettlement the following:
                   (a) Involuntary resettlement should be avoided where feasible,
                   or minimized, exploring all viable alternative project designs.

                   (b) Where it is not feasible to avoid resettlement, resettlement
                   activities should be conceived and executed as sustainable
                   development programs, providing sufficient investment
                   resources to enable the persons displaced by the project to
                   share in project benefits. Displaced persons should be
                   meaningfully consulted and should have opportunities to
                   participate in planning and implementing resettlement
                   programs.

                   (c) Displaced persons should be assisted in their efforts to
                   improve their livelihoods and standards of living or at least to
                   restore them, in real terms, to pre-displacement levels or to
                   levels prevailing prior to the beginning of project
                   implementation, whichever is higher.

       b. Operational Manual (BP) 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement (December
          2001) which clearly stipulates the procedure for initiating, planning
          and implementing involuntary resettlement in the event that it cannot
          be avoided.

       c. LMDGP Resettlement Policy Framework (RP342, May 2005)
          incorporated into the Project Agreement between the World Bank and
          the Lagos State (Project Implementing Entity).

3. The interests and wellbeing of numerous intended beneficiaries of LMDGP in
   the Badia community have been, are being, and will likely continue to be,
   materially and adversely affected as a direct result of the failure of the Bank to
   ensure compliance by the Project Implementing Entity (Lagos State) with its
   policies, procedures, and commitments under the Project Agreement during
   the implementation of LMDGP, including in the following instances:

       a. On March 6, 2012, without prior consultation, notice, compensation or
          resettlement, Lagos State Government demolished over 100 structures
          in Badia to make way for the construction of a drainage canal built
          under the LMDGP. Some homes were set on fire in the middle of the
          night; the others were demolished the following morning.

       b. On February 23, 2013, without prior consultation, notice,
          compensation, or resettlement, Lagos State Government demolished
          hundreds of structures in the area of Badia immediately adjoining the
          newly constructed canal, forcefully evicting an estimated 9,000 Badia
          residents, the intended beneficiaries of the LMDGP (Exhibit B – joint
          SERAC-Amnesty International report on Feb. 23 forced eviction).

       c. Both of the forced evictions cited above were in direct contravention of
          the Bank’s safeguard policies on involuntary resettlement (OP/BP
           4.12), the related policy documents cited above, and Lagos State’s
           commitments to the World Bank in the LMDGP Project Agreement.

       d. Contrary to the project’s objective to uplift the living standards of the
          slum communities, the forced eviction of residents and the demolition
          of their homes, structures and properties have resulted in their further
          impoverishment and insecurity. Many of the evictees have been forced
          to sleep outside, become squatters, or live in distant places far removed
          from their employment thereby further impoverishing an already poor
          and vulnerable population. Women, children, the sick and the disabled,
          among others, have suffered and are still suffering untold hardships.
          They have been forced to live in unacceptable conditions with no
          access to basic amenities and sanitation.

       e. While a retroactive Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) completed in
          December 2012 provided minimal financial assistance to 124 Project
          Affected Persons displaced during the March 2012 forced eviction, the
          sums were insufficient to offset the harms suffered, especially in light
          or the delay of nearly nine months. Since the February 23, 2013, no
          relief or emergency aid measures have been undertaken to mitigate the
          present and extreme suffering of thousands of affected persons.

4. We believe that the actions and omissions described above can be attributed to
   the World Bank because they occurred under the auspices of the World Bank-
   financed LMDGP and ongoing oversight and supervision by the World Bank
   Country Office. The World Bank is therefore clearly obliged to ensure that the
   project is implemented in accordance with its own Operational Policies and to
   hold Lagos State to its commitments under the LMDGP Project Agreement.

5. We have complained to the World Bank and otherwise engaged in follow-up
   activities relating to these events on the following occasions:

       a. On March 6, 2012, SERAC’s Executive Director, then a sitting
          member of the LMDGP Steering Committee, notified the World Bank
          Country Office and went with the LMDGP Project Director to visit the
          site of the fires and demolitions to see the extent of damage.

       b. On March 7, 2012, SERAC held a follow-up meeting with the
          LMDGP Project Director and community members to discuss next
          steps, including creation of a “welfare committee” to identify project
          affected persons and assess the extent of harms suffered.

       c. On May 7, 2012, SERAC attended the first meeting between persons
          affected by the March 6, 2012 demolition and an LMDGP consultant
          and social auditor who was hired to help with the development of a
          Resettlement Action Plan for project-affected persons.

       d. More than seven (7) months’ later, in December 2012, the RAP
          resulting from this process was retroactively implemented, paying
   sums ranging from U.S. $1,100-2,375 in “assistance” to a total of 121
   project-affected persons to enable them to rebuild their structures.
e. On July 23, 2012, SERAC wrote a letter to the Governor of Lagos
   State, copying the President of the World Bank and the World Bank
   Country Director for Nigeria, which condemned the July 16-21, 2012
   demolition of the Makoko/Iwaya waterfront communities, two other
   host communities to LMDGP activities, and announcing the
   resignation of SERAC’s Executive Director from the LMDGP Steering
   Committee, a post he had held since the outset of the project.

f. On February 22, 2013, SERAC wrote a letter to the Governor of Lagos
   State, copying the World Bank Country Director for Nigeria, which
   urged the Lagos State Government to pursue alternatives to the
   suspected demolition of the Badia East community.

g. On February 27, 2013, SERAC wrote a letter (Exhibit C) the World
   Bank Country Director for Nigeria, informing her of the forceful
   eviction of thousands of residents of Badia East, who are the intended
   beneficiaries of the LMDP drainage and urban upgrading activities,
   without notice, consultation, compensation or resettlement.

h. On February 28, 2013, SERAC visited the World Bank’s Nigeria
   Country Office in Abuja and met with Mr. Obadiah Tomohdet and a
   colleague to express the same concerns as raised in our letter.

i. On March 15, 2013, SERAC met with World Bank representatives,
   including the TTL for the LMDGP, and numerous LMDGP
   representatives at the LMDGP offices in Lagos, during which we
   reiterated our concerns, offered further background about the February
   23, 2013 forced eviction in Badia East and responded to questions. The
   World Bank representatives promised to continue their investigations.

j. On March 22, April 11, and May 6, 2013, World Bank representatives,
   including the Country Director on one occasion, visited the site of the
   demolition and witnessed first-hand the scale of the devastation and
   the terrible conditions in which evictees are living (Exhibit D –
   pictures of conditions one month after demolition). Nevertheless, in
   all the months since, no such emergency provision has been made.

k. On May 7, 2013 a SERAC representative was invited to a meeting in
   Lagos with a number of World Bank representatives. At this meeting,
   she was informed of the World Bank’s recent meetings with
   representatives of Lagos State, including Governor Fashola on April
   26, 2013 in Washington, DC, and a committee of Lagos State
   commissioners, chaired by the Attorney-General. She was informed
   that the World Bank had determined its safeguard policies should have
   been followed during the forced eviction because of the “association”
   between it and LMDGP activities. Despite this acknowledgment, the
   message at the meeting was that the World Bank intended to give
   Lagos State “more time” to work out a solution. SERAC urged haste to
   ease the suffering of the thousands of displaced persons who had
   received no emergency relief or other assistance for 1.5 months.

l. On May 28, 2013, having received no further information and no
   evidence of concrete steps taken since all the above meetings and site
   visits, SERAC sent another letter to the World Bank Country Director
   warning of our intention to file a Request for Inspection (Exhibit E).

m. Following on the above letter, SERAC met on May 31, 2013 with the
   World Bank Country Director, another Bank representative, and an
   outside advisor to discuss the urgent need for relief materials and
   concrete steps forward. The Country Director promised to push for
   things to move more expeditiously and asked for SERAC to wait until
   end of June 2013 for concrete progress.

n. On June 7, 2013, SERAC had a follow-up meeting with Mr. Sateh
   Arnout of the World Bank to discuss any progress toward emergency
   relief or development of a RAP for affected persons. We were
   informed at that time that the World Bank would be hiring a consultant
   to help with the development of the RAP and met the proposed hire.

o. On June 16, 2013, SERAC transmitted to Mr. Sateh Arnout and others
   at the World Bank a list compiled by Badia community members of
   2,237 affected households and quantifiable harms suffered (Exhibit F
   – transmission email and compiled list of affected persons).

p. On June 28, 2013, the World Bank Country Director sent a letter to
   Amnesty International in response to questions raised in a meeting and
   a letter, outlining its position on the Badia forced eviction (Exhibit G).

q. On June 25, 2013, SERAC received an email from Mr. Sateh Arnout
   of the World Bank containing the following updates:

           “On Thursday, June 20, 2013, the World Bank participated (in
           its capacity of observer) in the first meeting of the Technical
           Committee set up by the Lagos Government to oversee the
           preparation of the RAP for Badia East and to discuss the relief
           efforts to be provided to the affected population.
           “The meeting agreed to hold the first Consultation meeting
           with the stakeholders of Badia East on July 4, 2013. Also, a
           Liaison Officer in Lagos will be mobilized by the World Bank
           to facilitate communications with the Lagos Government and a
           RAP consultant will be recruited by the LMDGP PIU to initiate
           the preparation of the RAP.
           “The World Bank reiterated the importance of the Lagos
           Government complying with the agreed dates of July 31 and
           August 30, 2013 for completing the socio-economic census and
           the RAP formulation respectively.”
                    r. On July 4, 2013, the Lagos State Government Technical Committee on
                       Badia East convened the Stakeholders Meeting referred to above, at
                       which Mr. Arnout from the World Bank was present. Throughout the
                       course of the meeting, which lasted several hours, no Government
                       representative mentioned the planned development of a Resettlement
                       Action Plan or other concrete steps to be undertaken to assist persons
                       affected by the forced eviction. Rather, Government representatives
                       repeatedly informed affected persons that any “inconveniences” they
                       were suffering were necessary and incidental to development.
                       Nevertheless, the World Bank representative publicly stated:

                                  “I commend Lagos State and Nigeria in general for allowing
                                  freedom of speech…. In the “Resettlement Action Plan,” Badia
                                  people will soon get relief from the state government by the end
                                  of August after the list has been verified by World Bank.”1

      6. Despite the above commitments and the Bank’s public commendation for the
         Lagos State Government, the process of developing a RAP has neither kept
         time with the promised deadlines nor maintained the required levels of
         transparency and genuine, inclusive participation. We cite the following facts:

                    a. On August 13, 2013, SERAC and Amnesty International met jointly
                       with the Attorney-General for Lagos State along with the Chairwoman
                       and other members of the Lagos State Technical Committee on Badia
                       East, who informed them that the census of affected persons – due for
                       completion by July 31, 2013 – had not yet been finalized. Worse, the
                       representatives could not even explain the criteria for inclusion or
                       exclusion from the list (i.e. all persons affected or some subset).

                    b. On August 24, 2013, certain members of the affected community were
                       summoned to a meeting with the Technical Committee on Badia East
                       at the Lagos State Secretariat. The purpose of the meeting was to
                       discuss and finalize the census. When other community members tried
                       to participate, they were told only eight pre-selected community
                       representatives could remain and the others had to leave.

                    c. Not until September 18, 2013, did the Technical Committee summon
                       the same eight community representatives to a meeting at which they
                       were shown a unilaterally determined compensation package to be
                       included in the RAP. The representatives were made to understand
                       they must sign to approve this compensation amount that very day,
                       without receiving more detailed information about how the numbers
                       had been calculated or consulting with other community members.

                    d. Between September 19 and 23, 2013, SERAC and a World Bank
                       representative intervened to ensure that the community representatives
                       be given adequate disclosure of information regarding the
                       compensation package and time to consult prior to responding. During

$!


	

"	
'%#$&
              the final meeting on September 23, the Technical Committee indicated
              they would transmit the final RAP to the World Bank by September 24
              to ensure time for the RAP to be reviewed and approved.

          e. On September 30, 2013, SERAC inquired with the World Bank and
             learned that the final RAP had only just been transmitted by the Lagos
             State Technical Committee that day and was still in need of work.

   7. To date, there has been no emergency relief, no compensation, no resettlement
      and no other provision made for any of the thousands of persons forcibly
      evicted on February 23, 2013.

We respectfully submit that the above actions have materially and adversely affected
the wellbeing and interests of thousands of intended beneficiaries of the LMDGP and
request that the Inspection Panel recommend an expeditious and comprehensive
investigation of these matters in order to remedy these violations.

As advised in your Operating Procedures, this Request for Inspection is brief.
Accordingly, SERAC stands ready to provide The Inspection Panel with additional
information including documents, pictures, and videos in support of this Request.

We authorize you to make this Request public.

DATE: 30 September 2013

SIGNATURE:




Megan Chapman
Staff Attorney
megan.c@serac.org
+234.816.984.5410
+234.818.719.6021
     l:lilflk.Bl ;                                                                                       . OlliOJt
 itM··· B11n,k .· Niu~                  Umit~d
~':~4'·
l.4.@ .




  FCJiX· M<ria, Esq.
  Jhe.Cutivc Director
  Social and Economic ·B.iglus Acti® Center (SERAC)
 ·PJot 7St.Chief'rbomag ~ye DriVc ··            ·
 'emote Phase 2                                   ·        .·
 lsheri. Lugos
 Nigeria ·

                                        _l.etter of Consent to Petition \,··orld Bank Jnsoectfon Panel

 We; write to express our consent fot SERAC to pctitiOJ1 the World Bank on our behaI( .regarding
 .the l.•go&State Govemmenrs forced evic~ 0,tover ~,000 members of our~\Utity. A$ you
  know, on·Fobtiiary 23. 2013 we awOke to bull®zers tearing through ·Ql.lr }):(!mes and btasinesses.
 We receivecl.JK> notice, llt) compensation, and no offers or resettlement. or any other font1 Qf
 remet11 ~ever. Thcfrcsul1ing destruction has devastated our ~mm4'nity~ as ~:People
 ~nite t<f alctip outSi.X two months after the demolitioa ·                                    ·
. Our community was supposed lo~fit &om the World Bank funded Lagos Metropolitrui
· Development                 and
                     Governance Projecj (LMDC'iP) as one oi tht: host conununiries for "slum ....
  upgrading' nctivitics..lnstett4. the Lagos State Gov~t?Ilt bas reduced our ~ropCrties to rubble,

 As our lep.f representa*'c. we as1t you to formally petition thc.Worta Bank tO-~~th~.~
.Stare Oovemment~s ldi~-and request for compensa~ion on our beh~lf: ·            ·

We cftatik )Ou. fltr )'Out~i
     . . . . . · .. "   ·· ..,!:·.:··   .·   .,       ..




                                                                                                                     .!




                                                                                                                          •
IF YOU LOVE YOUR
LIFE, MOVE OUT!
FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST,
LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA
Amnesty International is a global movement of more than 3 million supporters,
members and activists in more than 150 countries and territories who campaign
to end grave abuses of human rights.
Our vision is for every person to enjoy all the rights enshrined in the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and other international human rights standards.
We are independent of any government, political ideology, economic interest or
religion and are funded mainly by our membership and public donations.




The Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC) is a Nigerian non-
governmental organization dedicated to the promotion and protection of social
and economic rights. For 18 years, SERAC has worked with slum communities in
Lagos and elsewhere in Nigeria to promote and protect the socio-economic rights
of inhabitants, including their rights to adequate housing/shelter, livelihood,
water, food, and access to electricity, health services and education. SERAC’s
work in slums involves rights-based community organizing and empowerment,
advocacy and litigation in response to (threatened) forced evictions.




First published in 2013 by                                        Cover photo: Police officers supervise the forced eviction of
Amnesty International Ltd                                         23 February 2013 as a resident carries his salvaged belongings.
Peter Benenson House                                              © Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)
1 Easton Street
London WC1X 0DW                                                   amnesty.org
United Kingdom

© Amnesty International 2013

Index: AFR 44/006/2013 English
Original language: English
Printed by Amnesty International,
International Secretariat, United Kingdom

All rights reserved. This publication is copyright, but may
be reproduced by any method without fee for advocacy,
campaigning and teaching purposes, but not for resale.
The copyright holders request that all such use be registered
with them for impact assessment purposes. For copying in
any other circumstances, or for reuse in other publications,
or for translation or adaptation, prior written permission must
be obtained from the publishers, and a fee may be payable.
To request permission, or for any other inquiries, please
contact copyright@amnesty.org
IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS
STATE, NIGERIA


CONTENTS



1/MAP                                               1
1/INTRODUCTION                                      5
   METHODOLOGY                                      7

2/BACKGROUND                                       10
   UPGRADING BADIA: PLANS AND REALITY              15

3/EVICTION WITHOUT SAFEGUARDS                      18
   TOTAL ABSENCE OF CONSULTATION                   19

   DEMOLISHING PEOPLE’S HOMES WITHOUT NOTICE       24

   SEVERE FAILURES IN THE EVICTION PROCESS         28

   PROVISION OF LEGAL REMEDIES AND LEGAL AID       32

   NO ALTERNATIVE HOUSING AND COMPENSATION         32

4/LIVES DESTROYED: THE IMPACT OF FORCED EVICTION   35
   NUMBER OF HOUSEHOLDS AND PEOPLE AFFECTED        35

   PEOPLE LEFT HOMELESS AND DESTITUTE              37

   FORCED INTO DEPENDENCY BY LOSS OF LIVELIHOODS   39
                                        INTIMIDATION AND HARASSMENT AFTER THE EVICTION                       41

                                        COMMUNITY EFFORTS TO CHALLENGE THE FORCED EVICTION                   41

                                    5/RESETTLEMENT WITHIN THE LMDGP RESETTLEMENT POLICY
                                       FRAMEWORK                                                             46
                                        CONSULTATION ON THE RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN                         47

                                        IDENTIFYING ALL THOSE AFFECTED                                       48

                                        OPTIONS FOR RESETTLEMENT                                             49

                                        ADDRESS IMMEDIATE NEEDS FOR ASSISTANCE                               50

                                    6/A TREND OF DEMOLITIONS AND FORCED EVICTIONS IN LAGOS STATE             51
                                        ‘KICK AGAINST INDISCIPLINE’ BRIGADE AND THE LAGOS STATE ENVIRONMENTAL
                                        AND SPECIAL OFFENCES ENFORCEMENT UNIT                                 53

                                    7/CONCLUSION                                                             54
                                        RECOMMENDATIONS                                                      55

                                    8/ENDNOTES                                                               58




Amnesty International August 2013   Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                                                     IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 1
                                                                                                                   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




LOCATIONS OF COMMUNITIES AFFECTED BY DEMOLITION ON 23 FEBRUARY 2013.




                                                                                                                                                                                           © Amnesty International
                NIGER


                                                                                                                                            CHAD
BURKINA
FASO
                                                        NIGERIA
            BENIN



                                                                 Abuja
TOGO



                                                                                                          CAMEROON
                    Lagos                                                                                                                   CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC




                                                Port Harcourt                                       Oke Ilu-Eri & Ajeromi Communities
                                                                                                               Lagos, Nigeria
                GULF OF GUINEA




 1:10,000,000



*Boundaries are approximate and do not constitute endorsement from Amnesty International   Image: Lagos, Nigeria 12-31-2012 6°28'30.65"N 3°21'45.92"E © DigitalGlobe 2013 © Google Earth




                                                                                                        Index: AFR 44/006/2013                Amnesty International August 2013
2 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
  FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                       BIMBO OMOWOLE OSOBE
                                       Bimbo Omowole Osobe (pictured right) is 55 years old; she moved to Badia East in 1973 when the
                                       community was resettled there. Her home and shops were demolished by the Lagos state government
                                       and she was forcibly evicted on 23 February 2013. She has lost her home and means of livelihood and
                                       now sleeps out in the open under a net. Despite the difficult circumstances in which she is living, Bimbo
                                       is a key part of the struggle of the community to get remedies for the violations they have suffered.

                                       “What happened that day was a shock because there was no notice whatsoever; we were not notified at
                                       all. We only heard that there were caterpillars [bulldozers] around on that day, thinking it was part of
                                       the environmental sanitation exercise.

                                       “When I came out of my house I saw that they had started demolishing. …They came with
                                       sledgehammers and all the enforcement agents were armed. We stayed by the rail lines. They did not
                                       give us a chance to take any of our belongings; they did not allow us to go next to our homes after
                                       driving us out. Homes that the bulldozers did not destroy, the task force men destroyed with
                                       sledgehammers. I owned a Pepsi commercial fridge, it was destroyed, the only thing I was able to
                                       recover from the remains of my home was an empty bottle of Miranda [a soft drink].

                                       “I had a house with tenants and their children living in there; I had two shops too where I sold mineral
                                       drink. You know when a woman loses her child, you know how she feels? That is how I can compare what
                                       happened that day. The house was owned by my late uncle and I inherited it from him, I lived in the
                                       house with my family of four children. I had 10 tenants. My shops were demolished too; I sold mineral
                                       drinks and water. I have been doing nothing since the demolition.

                                       “During the day we are here in Better Life [an open-air community centre] sharing testimonies and at
                                       night there is a place I sleep, I was given a net and I use that net. When it rains I stand up [because I
                                       sleep on the ground] and wait for the rain to stop and after the rain stops I look for where to find hot
                                       water or tea.

                                       “My children are no longer with me; I sent three of them to the North and one to Agbara.1 Bisi is 12 years
                                       old; Titi is 10; Opeyemi is 8 and the last one is just 3; two boys, two girls. They were all in school before
                                       the demolition. Since the demolition they have not been going to school.

                                       “Before the demolition we were living in a block [concrete] house… The first time I experienced [an]
                                       eviction was during the National Theatre [1973] eviction; the second time was during the 2003 one; this
                                       is the third time.

                                       “They [Lagos state government] should give us our land back or build houses for us but we cannot pay
                                       for it because there is no money… These people [the Lagos state government] should be our forefront,
                                       they are the people you expect should fight for us but are now the people fighting against us. Shelter
                                       comes first in everything in life, when there is shelter whatever you have you can live with; but when
                                       there is no shelter how do you survive?”2




  Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                          IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 3
        FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




                                                               © Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)




Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
4 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
  FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA
© Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)




                                               A bulldozer demolishing homes in Badia East. On 23 February 2013 at least 266 structures were demolished by the Lagos state
                                               government. There was no genuine consultation and reasonable notice before the demolition.




                                               Amnesty International August 2013    Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                      IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 5
                                                                                    FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



1/INTRODUCTION




At 7.30am on Saturday, 23 February 2013, residents of the Badia East community in Lagos
state saw a bulldozer parked at the edge of their community. Soon afterwards, officials of the
Lagos state Task Force on Environmental and Special Offences (Task Force)3 arrived and
began demolishing people’s homes, businesses and community facilities.

People living near the bridge reported that they heard Task Force and other officials shouting
for them to come out of their homes. Police officers said to them, “If you love your life, move
out.” Residents who tried to get into their houses to salvage their possessions were threatened
and some recounted that they were beaten by the police when they tried to do so. The
bulldozers tore apart people’s homes and businesses, assisted by men in overalls who used
sledgehammers to destroy parts of homes that the bulldozers could not easily reach.

By the end of the demolition, the Oke Ilu-Eri community, which forms part of Badia East, was
razed to the ground and a part of the nearby Ajeromi community was also destroyed. At least
266 structures that served as homes and businesses were completely wiped out, affecting an
estimated 2,237 households. At a minimum, close to 9,000 people were affected.4 No
alternative housing was provided by the Lagos state government and people were left
homeless after the demolitions.

Many people are still sleeping out in the open or under a nearby bridge. Others have erected
makeshift shelters with tarpaulin and similar materials wherever they could find space in
Badia East. Several former Oke Ilu-Eri residents have constructed new structures made of
wood and metal in a swampy area (previously deemed uninhabitable) on the other side of the
World Bank-funded canal that borders the community. Some former residents are living with
friends or families in homes that are already overcrowded. Without any government support
following the loss of their homes and livelihoods, the overwhelming majority are unable to rent
or obtain alternative housing.

Many people said that they are living in an extremely precarious situation after losing their
sources of income. Numerous women who had lost their small businesses were worried that
they have now become dependent on friends and family for food and clothing. Some said that
they are suffering from malaria or typhoid after living in the open but can no longer afford to
pay for medicines and treatment. The strain of becoming homeless and of sleeping out in the
open is also believed by the community to have contributed to some deaths of elderly people.
Many children are now separated from their families after being sent to relatives in villages
because they have no home.




                                                                            Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
6 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
  FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




                                                                                                                                            © Amnesty International
  A Lagos state government
  billboard standing on the site
  where hundreds of homes were
  demolished in Badia East. The
  government says it plans to build
  1,008 apartments on the land
  where the Badia East community
  is situated.




                                       The Lagos state government has failed to put in place legal and procedural safeguards that are
                                       required under international law prior to any eviction. There was no consultation with the
                                       affected people to identify alternatives to eviction. The government failed to provide adequate
                                       notice, legal remedies, alternative housing to those unable to provide for themselves, and
                                       compensation for their loss. Amnesty International and the Social and Economic Rights
                                       Action Center (SERAC) therefore consider this eviction to amount to a forced eviction5 which
                                       violates the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International
                                       Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights,
                                       among other international and regional treaties to which Nigeria is a state party.

                                       Badia East is part of the larger Badia community, which is one of nine settlements (“slums”)
                                       meant to benefit from the World Bank-funded Lagos Metropolitan Development and
                                       Governance Project (LMDGP). The objective of the US$200 million project was “to increase
                                       sustainable access to basic urban services through investments in critical infrastructure”.6
                                       The infrastructure component of the project (estimated at US$160.89 million)7 included urban
                                       upgrading activities in “nine of the largest slums identified in 1995”8 in Lagos state, along with
                                       drainage and solid waste management projects.

                                       The area that that was cleared on 23 February has been earmarked for a housing
                                       development project by the Lagos State Ministry of Housing. The government is not planning
                                       to resettle the people who were forcibly evicted in these units9 and the vague plans that do
                                       exist for allocation of these housing units indicate that most of them will be unaffordable for
                                       the residents of Badia. The housing project does not form part of the activities under the
                                       LMDGP but the government has indicated that the location was chosen because the area had
                                       been earmarked for regeneration/renewal under the LMDGP.10

                                       The people who were forcibly evicted are among the LMDGP’s intended beneficiaries in Badia.
                                       Instead of improving the living conditions of these people, as the government has committed




  Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                       IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 7
                                                                                     FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



to do under the LMDGP, it has destroyed people’s homes and businesses. It has driven people
into worse living conditions and deeper into poverty.

The government has stated that this eviction was the first phase of its plans to clear out the
whole of Badia East in order to “redevelop” the area and to evict most of the existing
residents.11 If these plans proceed as described, tens of thousands will be at risk of forced
evictions. The entire LMDGP intervention investment in Badia risks being diverted from the
intended beneficiaries (Badia residents) to more affluent residents of Lagos state, who can
afford the new housing units.

The forced eviction of the residents of Badia East is part of a pattern of forced evictions of
people living in informal settlements and in other communities across Lagos state. Amnesty
International and SERAC, the two organizations that have authored this report, have
themselves documented numerous forced evictions in Badia, Makoko, Ilaje Otumara and
elsewhere in Lagos state since the 1990s. Many of the people who were forcibly evicted by the
government from Badia East had experienced at least two to three forced evictions and been
forced to rebuild their lives from scratch each time.

The Lagos state government has stated that it “in collaboration with the World Bank Group,
has set in motion modalities to support people who were affected during the February exercise
of its urban regeneration programme”.12 The World Bank has also confirmed that these people
will be covered under the LMDGP Resettlement Policy Framework.13 There are concerns,
however, about the process that will be used to identify people who were affected, that
tenants may not be included under the resettlement action plan that the government is
developing and that people will only receive compensation rather than compensation and
resettlement. It is essential that all those who were forcibly evicted on 23 February 2013 are
properly identified and offered adequate alternative housing and compensation for their losses.
The resettlement plan also should be developed in consultation with the affected people.

People in Badia East have displayed extraordinary courage, solidarity and resilience during
and after the forced eviction. The community has organized to support its members in
numerous ways and to fight for effective remedies and justice for all those affected. They
are calling on the government to give them compensation to allow them to rent or rebuild
homes and businesses, and to allow them to continue living in the area in which that they
have already invested so much. In the words of Ayinke Stephen, a 39-year-old HIV-positive
woman who carries out health outreach and counselling within the community: “They should
consider us. They should see us and treat us like any normal Nigerians.”



METHODOLOGY
This report is the outcome of research conducted by Amnesty International and the Social and
Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC). The report documents the events leading up to and after
the eviction of residents of Badia East by the Lagos state government on 23 February 2013.

SERAC, which has worked with the Badia East community since 1996, monitored the events
in the lead-up to the eviction on 23 February and seven staff members were present during
the eviction. SERAC also collected testimonies and information from people who were evicted
in order to file a suit challenging the eviction before the Lagos State High Court.




                                                                             Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
8 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
  FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




                                                                                             © Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)
                                       In May 2013 a joint delegation of Amnesty International and SERAC (henceforth called “the
                                       delegation”) conducted detailed interviews with 40 structure owners and tenants from Oke Ilu-
                                       Eri and Ajeromi communities whose homes and businesses had been demolished. The
                                       interviews were conducted in small groups and individually. The delegation also interviewed
                                       other residents living in Badia East and met with the Badia East Technical Committee, formed
                                       after the eviction to advocate for an effective remedy for those affected.14

                                       All the quotations from witnesses included in this report are based on interviews conducted
                                       either by Amnesty International or SERAC.

                                       SERAC has a long-standing relationship with the Badia East community and has provided
                                       legal representation to residents of Badia East in court proceedings and other advocacy,
                                       including on previous evictions.

                                       Amnesty International and SERAC delegates also separately and jointly met with various
                                       government agencies and officials, including the Lagos State Attorney General and
                                       Commissioner for Justice; the Lagos State Commissioner for Housing; the Chairman
                                       of the Lagos State Taskforce on Environmental and Special Offences (Enforcement)
                                       Unit; officials of the Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project (LMDGP);
                                       and the Director and Deputy Director of the Department of Urban and Regional
                                       Development of the Federal Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development.
                                       Both organizations have also met and corresponded with the World Bank Nigeria
                                       Office. The Lagos State Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development,
                                       whose ministry was involved with the decision to carry out the demolition, declined




  Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                                                                                   IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 9
                                                                                                                                                 FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




                               © Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)


                                                                                    © Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)




to meet with Amnesty International delegates despite a letter sent to him requesting a                                                                            Bulldozers demolish homes in
meeting and a visit to his office.                                                                                                                                Badia East. On 23 February 2013
                                                                                                                                                                  at least 266 structures were
Amnesty International also interviewed the Baale (traditional district head) of Iganmu Alawo.15                                                                   demolished by the Lagos state
                                                                                                                                                                  government. There was no genuine
Research for the report also draws on correspondence; court cases; video and photographic                                                                         consultation and reasonable notice
evidence; prior publications by SERAC and Amnesty International; and satellite image analysis                                                                     before the demolition.
commissioned by Amnesty International from DigitalGlobe’s Analysis Centre.




                                                                                                                                         Index: AFR 44/006/2013      Amnesty International August 2013
10 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        2/BACKGROUND




                                        “The government has never helped us, the
                                        community raised money, we reclaimed the
                                        land here [by filling the swampy area],
                                        constructed the road ourselves and provided
                                        electricity ourselves.”
                                        Olatunde Aworetan, aged 4716


                                        Lagos is one of two megacities17 in Africa, with an estimated population of 11.2 million.18
                                        In 1990, the state had a population of 4.76 million.19 It is expected that Lagos will have
                                        one of the highest rates of growth of any urban area in the world between 2011 and 2025,
                                        projected at 3.71%.20 SERAC has highlighted that the rise in the population of the state
                                        has not been accompanied by the provision of social and economic infrastructure such
                                        as housing, health care facilities, schools, roads, transportation, water, solid waste disposal
                                        and drainage facilities.21

                                        The Lagos Master Plan (1980–2000), developed in 1979 with the support of the United
                                        Nations Development Programme (UNDP), laid out a framework for addressing various
                                        problems and challenges, including the provision of housing, creation and expansion of
                                        economic activity centres (to disperse pressure and population concentration on existing
                                        city centres), and the identification and upgrading of major informal settlements or slums.
                                        In 2006, the Presidential Task Force on Lagos Mega City concluded that the Lagos Master
                                        Plan “was not implemented. Instead, the experience had been of significant distortions
                                        in many parts of the plan” with impact that has been “far-reaching resulting in lopsided
                                        population distribution, high cost of infrastructure development, drainage obstructions,
                                        environmental and sanitation challenges, traffic congestion and numerous other problems.”22
                                        Commenting on the failure to implement the Lagos Master Plan, the then Lagos State
                                        Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development stated that the plan: “accurately
                                        analysed the housing needs of Lagos and recommended that between 1980 and 2000, 1.4
                                        million additional housing units should be constructed, out of which one million should be
                                        deliberately earmarked for low income households. By the year 2000 when the plan expired,
                                        no more than 10% of the housing needs were satisfied.”23




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                                                             © Social and Economic Rights Action Centre (SERAC)
The World Bank has highlighted that “[D]istortions in the housing market in Nigeria render            Residents construct a makeshift
access to adequate and affordable housing limited, even for the middle class. Housing prices          shelter. Close to 9,000 people
are high due to the non-availability of long-term finance, high transaction costs for obtaining       were affected by the forced
land titles and or certificates of occupancy, regulatory and planning controls for building and       eviction by the Lagos state
construction that constrain the efficient utilization of land, as well as high inflation rates in     government in Badia East, Lagos
the Nigerian economy. The impact of these distortions is exacerbated in Lagos because of              state, on 23 February 2013.
its small land mass in comparison to the land mass of other states. Slums are, therefore, a
consequence of both market and government failure.”24

Almost 70% of the population of Lagos live in slums in “extremely poor environmental
surroundings. …While the average residential density for Lagos as a whole is about 260 people
per hectare, the population density in slums is between 790 and 1,240 people per
hectare.”25 The Lagos Master Plan identified and classified 42 slums or informal
settlements in the city. The government has often described these as “blighted areas”.26
It is estimated that there are now over 100 such communities in Lagos.27

Badia (often also referred to as Ijora-Badia and sometimes as Iganmu Alawo) is one of these
original 42 informal settlements identified by the Lagos state government. Badia East is an
informal area of over 100,000 people.28 For nearly four decades, the residents of Badia East
have occupied the previously uninhabited area of Ijora Badia, filling and improving the land




                                                                             Index: AFR 44/006/2013      Amnesty International August 2013
12 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




                                         © Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)
   A makeshift shelter in Badia East,
   Lagos state, made from materials
   salvaged from the ruins of
   hundreds of homes demolished
   by the Lagos state government
   on 23 February 2013.




                                        with their own resources.29 The settlement is situated on a narrow strip of land running
                                        between a rail line and swampland. Its location is strategically close to the Apapa port and
                                        surrounding industrial areas, both of economic importance for the livelihoods of the residents.

                                        In 1973, three years after the end of Nigeria’s civil war, the Federal Military Government
                                        acquired a large tract of land comprising a sprawling old settlement known as Oluwole
                                        Village in Iganmu (central Lagos) for the purpose of building Nigeria’s National Arts
                                        Theatre. The theatre was to be a key feature of the African Festival of Arts and Culture
                                        that Nigeria hosted.

                                        Without adequate notice or consultation, the Federal Military Government forcibly evicted
                                        Oluwole and Anjola villagers from their ancestral homes.30 Following protests by the residents,
                                        the federal authorities retrospectively paid paltry sums as compensation to some. Other
                                        evictees that insisted on resettlement were allocated tiny vacant plots of land in Ijora-Badia,
                                        less than 1km away. Otherwise, the evictees were abandoned to their fate, to find their own
                                        means and resources to build new houses for their families. Many built sheds made mostly
                                        of stilts and corrugated iron sheets.31 They settled in two new villages known as Ajeromi and
                                        Oke-Ilu-Eri, which together formed the Badia East community; and a Community Development
                                        Association was formed to promote the community’s welfare.

                                        The Federal Military Government failed to address Badia’s pre-existing severe lack of basic
                                        social and economic infrastructure, such as water, roads, drainage, health care facilities and
                                        schools.32 This neglect has continued over the years and the negative consequences of this
                                        lack of investment continue to be felt.

                                        Over the years, the population of Badia East has grown alongside the rest of Lagos state.
                                        From the original inhabitants who were mainly Ilaje, a Yoruba ethnic group, the population




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                             IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 13
                                                                                           FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



has diversified to include other ethnic groups in Nigeria. Most residents are very poor by Lagos
state standards, living on less than N15,000 per month (US$92).33 Many operate small shops
or businesses within the community or do informal trading.

The failure of the federal government to provide documents guaranteeing security of tenure to
the residents and repeated forced evictions have tragically shaped the development of Badia
East. The first residents, who held occupation licences from the federal government after their
relocation from Iganmu, invested in filling the land to make it habitable and suitable for
building permanent concrete houses. In the early 1980s, many had their plots surveyed and
tried without success to formalize their tenure.34

The residents’ efforts and aspirations towards increasing their security of tenure were dashed
in 1986 when the Lagos state government carried out its first major eviction in the area,
primarily affecting the village of Oke Ilu-Eri. The evicted people took shelter with their
neighbours in Ajeromi. When the land was left empty by the Lagos state government, the
community slowly rebuilt Oke Ilu-Eri, but according to the residents, the original investments
in building quality and community infrastructure have never been the same. In subsequent
years, forced evictions elsewhere in Lagos state, most prominently the massive 1990
demolition of Maroko,35 sent a wave of evictees seeking shelter to places like Ijora Badia.



 CONTESTED CLAIMS TO LAND
 Due to its location and its history of British colonial and federal acquisition, the land of Badia East
 has in recent decades come under increasing pressure from competing ownership claims, fuelling
 the cycle of demolition and forced evictions. In the 1990s, the Nigerian Railway Corporation
 claimed ownership based on colonial acquisition of land from the traditional Ojora chieftaincy
 family dating back to 1929 and demanded rent from Badia East residents.36 More recently, the
 Ojora chieftaincy family, have also reasserted their claim to traditional ownership. As a result, the
 land in Badia East is the subject of ongoing litigation37 in a Lagos State High Court. The litigation
 was initiated by the Ojora chieftaincy family against a few prominent residents of the community,
 one of whom is represented by SERAC.

 The federal government maintains that the Badia East land is federally owned. It therefore conducted
 extensive planning in 2004-2005 for an urban regeneration project for the community. The Lagos
 state government does not recognize the area as federally owned land and has carried out evictions
 and land acquisition in Badia East something which it is not legally authorized to do if the land
 is federally owned. The Land Use Act 1978 confirms that land in a state can be vested in the
 federal government. The Act vests all land in the territory of each state, except land vested in
 the federal government or its agencies, solely in the state governors to hold in trust for the people.

 The dispute on federal and state ownership and authority over land in Lagos state, such as that in
 Badia East, is largely due to Lagos’ history as the British colonial capital of Nigeria until the
 country’s independence in 1960; and then as the federal capital until 1991 when the capital
 moved to Abuja. Until 1967 when Lagos state was created, most land in what is now Lagos state
 was federal. After the creation of Lagos state, some federal land was transferred to Lagos state.
 However, because the federal capital was in Lagos, the federal government continued to acquire
 and hold land for a variety of public purposes.




                                                                                   Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
14 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA
 © Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)




                                                Armed police officers supervising the forced eviction in Badia East. Affected people said the police threatened to shoot them if they did not
                                                move out of their homes.




                                                Amnesty International August 2013      Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                        IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 15
                                                                                      FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



UPGRADING BADIA: PLANS AND REALITY
Since 1986, successive administrations have promised to upgrade Badia East but these
promises have not been kept and instead residents have suffered numerous forced evictions.

In the early 1990s, the Lagos state government received a US$85 million loan facility from the
World Bank for the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project (LDSP), designed to build drainage
systems to de-flood parts of the state. In 1996, the Lagos State Ministry of Environment and
Physical Planning earmarked 15 slum communities, including Badia, for demolition in order
to accommodate the drainage systems and renew the blighted areas.38 On 15 July 1996 the
then Lagos State Commissioner for Environment and Physical Planning stated that the state
government had no intention or plan to compensate or resettle people whose homes may
be affected by the project.39 Except for media reports of the threat to destroy the communities,
the affected populations were not informed, notified, consulted or even contacted by the
government regarding the project itself or the plans for eviction.40

In 1997, the homes and businesses of over 2,000 people were demolished in Badia and Ijora
Oloye, residents forcibly evicted by officials of the Lagos State Ministry of Environment and
Physical Planning, the Lagos Urban Renewal Board, and heavily armed police.41 Those who
tried to salvage their possessions faced harassment and threats from armed security guards.42

In July 2003, following a 48-hour notice, the Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences
Enforcement Unit (“Task Force”) demolished a narrow strip of homes in Oke Ilu-Eri area of
Badia East, but stopped midway due to a peaceful resistance by the community. There was
no compensation or resettlement for those affected. In October 2003, despite pending
litigation filed by SERAC on behalf of Badia East residents following the July demolition, the
Task Force returned to Badia East without notice to demolish and forcibly evict at least 3,000
residents of Oke Ilu-Eri. There was no compensation or resettlement for those affected.43

After Oke Ilu-Eri was demolished by the Lagos state government in 2003, the Badia East
community worked with SERAC to petition the federal government for assistance. The petition
traced the community’s history back to their forced eviction from the National Theatre site
and claimed that the federal government was responsible for failing to guarantee their security
of tenure.44

In response to the petition, the Federal Minister of Housing and Urban Development
intervened by informing the Lagos state government that the Badia East land was still subject
to long-standing federal acquisition. The Federal Ministry accepted responsibility to upgrade
and redevelop Badia East for the benefit of its residents.45 From 2004-2005, the Federal
Ministry hired consultants to develop a slum regeneration plan in close collaboration with an
inclusive and participatory technical committee.46 The technical committee was mandated
to monitor implementation of the final regeneration plan, which was based on a baseline
community enumeration and provided for upgrading of infrastructure, housing and community
facilities and promised security of tenure for residents.

Shortly after finalizing the regeneration plan, the Federal Minister who had initiated the project
left office. Since she left, the implementation of the plan has suffered delays. Badia East leaders
have continued to petition and pressure what is now the Federal Ministry of Lands, Housing
and Urban Development to guarantee their security of tenure and implement the plan.47




                                                                              Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
16 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




                                                                                                                                         © Amnesty International
   A canal in Badia East constructed    In 2011, senior officials of the Federal Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development
   under the World Bank-funded          visited Badia East to see the intended project site and wrote letters formally recognizing the
   Lagos Metropolitan Development       legitimacy of Badia East residents’ stay on the land pending implementation of the intended
   and Governance Project. Hundreds     regeneration plan.48 In a sad irony, shortly after the 23 February 2013 demolition, a senior
   of homes were demolished in          Federal Ministry official informed Badia East community leaders that there was funding
   March 2012, without notice, by       for the regeneration project in its 2013 budget, but have as yet taken no action to progress
   the ‘Kick Against Indiscipline’      these plans.49
   Brigade to make way for the
   construction of the canal.           In parallel, the Lagos state government also received a US$200 million loan facility from the
                                        World Bank for the LMDGP in 2006, a project that again included a drainage component
                                        along with “urban upgrading” for nine slum communities, including Badia. The upgrading
                                        activities envisioned under this project are limited to construction and infrastructure
                                        “deliverables.” Since 2006, the projects executed under the LMDGP include a road and
                                        a drainage canal. However, the execution of these projects has been rife with problems,
                                        including delays and a forced eviction.




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                              IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 17
                                                                                            FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



On 6 March 2012, without notice, the Lagos State Kick Against Indiscipline (KAI)50 Brigade
demolished over 300 structures to make way for the construction of a canal running the length
of Badia East, built under the LMDGP. KAI Brigade destroyed some homes by setting fire to
them; bulldozers demolished the remainder the following morning.51 Following nine months of
pressure and negotiations, in December 2012, the LMDGP paid 124 affected people pursuant
to a December 2012 Resettlement Action Plan (RAP).52



 NIGERIA’S OBLIGATIONS UNDER NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL LAW
 Nigeria is obligated under a range of national and international human rights laws to respect,
 protect and fulfil the right to adequate housing.53 This requires the government to respect the
 right to adequate housing by refraining from forced evictions, protecting people from interferences
 with their rights by third parties such as landlords, and to adopt appropriate legislative,
 administrative, budgetary, judicial, promotional and other measures to fully realize the right to
 adequate housing. The government must prioritize the realisation of minimum essential levels of
 housing for everyone, and must prioritize the most disadvantaged groups in all programmes and
 while allocating resources. This also requires the government to guarantee the right of people to
 participate in and be consulted over decisions that will affect their lives, and to provide an
 effective remedy if any of these rights are violated.

 A state party to a treaty may not invoke the provisions of its internal law as justification for its
 failure to perform the treaty (perform its obligations under the treaty).54 Therefore, regardless of
 the legal system or the different tiers of government that exist in Nigeria if any public official or
 agent of the state fails to comply with Nigeria’s obligations under international human rights law
 on the right to adequate housing, the Nigerian government is responsible and can be held to
 account for breach of international law.

 The African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights (ACHPR), which was ratified by Nigeria on 22
 June 1983, has been directly incorporated into Nigerian law.55 The African Commission on Human
 and Peoples’ Rights has affirmed in the case of SERAC and the Centre for Economic and Social
 Rights v. Nigeria that forced evictions contravene the African Charter, in particular Articles 14 and
 16 on the right to property and the right to health, and Article 18(1) on the state’s duty to protect
 the family. In that case, the African Commission stressed that “[a]lthough the right to housing or
 shelter is not explicitly provided for under the African Charter, the corollary of the combination of
 the provisions protecting the right to enjoy the best attainable state of mental and physical health,
 cited under Article 16 [...], the right to property, and the protection accorded to the family forbids
 the wanton destruction of shelter because when housing is destroyed, property, health, and family
 life are adversely affected. It is thus noted that the combined effect of Articles 14, 16 and 18(1)
 reads into the [African] Charter a right to shelter or housing.”56

 Section 16 (2) (d) of the Nigerian Constitution also provides that the State shall direct its policy
 towards ensuring that suitable and adequate shelter is provided for all citizens.57




                                                                                   Index: AFR 44/006/2013      Amnesty International August 2013
18 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        3/EVICTION WITHOUT SAFEGUARDS




                                        Nigeria is a state party to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,
                                        the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the African Charter on Human
                                        and People’s Rights, along with other human rights treaties that require it to refrain from and
                                        prevent forced evictions.58 The UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights defines
                                        a forced eviction as “the permanent or temporary removal against their will of individuals,
                                        families and/or communities from the homes and/or land which they occupy, without the
                                        provision of, and access to, appropriate forms of legal or other protection.”59

                                        The Committee has emphasized that evictions may only be carried out as a last resort and
                                        only after all feasible alternatives to eviction have been explored in genuine consultation with
                                        the affected people.60 It has clarified that evictions can only be carried out when appropriate
                                        procedural protections are in place. These include:

                                         an opportunity for genuine consultation with those affected;

                                         adequate and reasonable notice for affected people prior to the eviction;

                                         information on the proposed evictions and, where applicable, on the alternative purpose
                                        for which the land or housing is to be used, to be made available in reasonable time to all
                                        those affected;

                                         government officials or their representatives to be present during an eviction;

                                         everyone involved in carrying out the eviction to be properly identified;

                                         evictions not to take place in particularly bad weather or at night unless the affected
                                        people consent otherwise;

                                         provision of legal remedies;

                                         provision, where possible, of legal aid to people who are in need of it to seek redress from
                                        the courts;61

                                         provision of adequate alternative housing to those who cannot provide for themselves; and

                                         compensation for all losses.




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                         IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 19
                                                                                       FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



These requirements apply to all evictions, irrespective of the tenure status of the people being
evicted. “Evictions should not result in individuals being rendered homeless or vulnerable to
the violation of other human rights.”62

The Committee has also stressed that even when an eviction is considered to be justified, “it
should be carried out in strict compliance with the relevant provisions of international human
rights law and in accordance with general principles of reasonableness and proportionality.”63

The prohibition on forced evictions does not apply to evictions carried out in accordance with the
law and in conformity with the provisions of international human rights standards. Therefore, if a
government has undertaken genuine consultation to explore all feasible alternatives, provided
adequate notice, remedies, adequate alternative housing and compensation and put in place
all other procedural requirements, the eviction and if necessary, the use of force in a proportionate
and reasonable manner to carry out the eviction, would not amount to a forced eviction.



TOTAL ABSENCE OF CONSULTATION
“They did not inform anybody. We were not aware that they were coming. They just came and
started demolishing.”

Ndukwe Eze, tenant, aged 43




In a meeting on 15 May 2013, the Lagos State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice
(Lagos State Attorney General) explained that the government had developed plans since
2003 to upgrade the entire Badia locality.64 He stated that the government had not been able
to proceed with this larger plan because of a lack of resources but had decided to start with
the “clearance of a portion of Badia, which has been reserved for housing development.” He
also explained that the government had decided to start with the “least intrusive” part of these
plans by clearing the least built-up part of the entire community.65

In a written response to Amnesty International, the Lagos state government claimed that “the
particular area recently cleared and repossessed …is a small part of the 17 hectare planning
area within the Badia settlement, which was earlier cleared of all structures in 2003. It was in
fact a swampy portion now filled with refuse and the least built up of the entire community. …
Since the area was previously secured for developmental projects, it was never approved for
any kind of occupation or use by the recent evictees. The land was clearly uninhabitable,
considering the refuse-filled terrain and absence of basic facilities”.66

The Attorney General said that a government delegation had visited Badia twice, in April 2008
and October 2012, to tell people that they had to move from the area.67 The Lagos State
Governor himself headed the delegation in 2008. The Attorney General claimed that the
government delegation spoke to leaders who represented the community rather than the
whole community. Amnesty International asked to see a copy of the minutes of the meetings
and a list of those who attended, but was informed that no such record was available.

The Lagos State Commissioner for Housing also claimed that there had been a stakeholders
meeting on the government’s plans for the redevelopment of Badia. He said that community




                                                                               Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
20




                                                                                                                                            © Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)
     Bimbo Omowole Osobe and other        representatives as well as members of the Ojora family, who assert a legal claim to the land,
     Badia East residents who were        attended this meeting.68
     forcibly evicted from their homes
     speak to the media during the        None of the community residents or members of the Badia East Technical Committee that
     protest on 25 February 2013 at       Amnesty International and SERAC interviewed were ever consulted about the eviction or the
     the Lagos State Governor's office.   government’s plans to construct a housing development. There was no opportunity to suggest
                                          alternatives to eviction. People were also unaware of the visits that the government claimed
                                          it organized in 2008 and 2012 to notify people that they needed to move from the area.
                                          A former youth president of the community noted that the Governor had visited the community
                                          in 2008 to discuss the LMDGP project, but stated that during this visit, no announcements
                                          were made asking people to move.69 On the contrary, another resident pointed out that when
                                          the Governor and a delegation visited the community in 2012 and inspected the drainage,
                                          “he specifically said that he had not come to demolish any houses. … He was not here for
                                          demolition, he only came to tell us that this drainage they are doing was for us. …He also said
                                          we should not allow anyone to dump refuse in the drainage”.70

                                          Olatunde Aworetan, a 47-year-old resident whose father was the former Baale [traditional
                                          chief] of the area, said: “apart from the meeting we had with the Lagos state government on
                                          28 February 2013, after the demolition, in Alausa [location of the Lagos state secretariat]
                                          there has never been any meeting with the Lagos state government.”

                                          Even according to the government’s statement of events, it is clear that there was no process
                                          set up to consult residents on the plans to clear the area, let alone offering people the
                                          opportunity to engage with the government and suggest possible alternatives. This violates
                                          Nigeria’s obligations under international human rights law. The government did not record any
                                          details about the evictees or their properties before demolishing their homes and businesses,
                                          thus undermining resettlement and compensation efforts.




     Amnesty International August 2013    Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                          IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 21
                                                                                        FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




“WE CLEARED THE REFUSE AREA”
Contradictions in the government’s account of events
There are contradictions even among the different departments of the Lagos state government
in their description of the demolitions and eviction of people on 23 February 2013. The Lagos
State Attorney General acknowledged that people had been evicted when the area had been
cleared but claimed that it was the least built-up area of the community. Photographs provided
by the government along with its written response also clearly reveal the existence of structures
in the area that was cleared.71

The Lagos State Commissioner for Housing maintained that the government did not evict people
from that location. He stated that the area had been cleared of garbage and that there were no
structures, only some stands where people stored things.

The Lagos state Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development has also stated in
a televised panel discussion that the area they cleared was predominantly a rubbish dump.
He stated, “What we cleared was the shanty area, we cleared the refuse area. There might be
people there [the area demolished]; they were not supposed to be living there.... As at the time
the Governor visited in 2009 that place had no buildings there. What is important to me as a
Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, I like to see the building in my
database because as at 2005 there was no building there. So if any one was going to put up
a building, there was supposed to have been a process of building permit... The things that
were here [area demolished) were refuse; things that were stacked up.”72 Felix Morka, Executive
Director of SERAC, and Bimbo Omowole Osobe, a resident of Badia who was forcibly evicted
on 23 February, were also part of this panel discussion and provided their own witness accounts
rebutting the Commissioner’s statement.

Staff members of SERAC visited the area that was cleared on numerous occasions prior to the
23 February demolition and can confirm the existence of homes and businesses in that area.
This is also corroborated through video footage and photographs taken by SERAC.

DigitalGlobe’s Analysis Center was commissioned by Amnesty International to examine satellite
images taken on 8 February and 8 April 2013 of Oke Ilu-Eri and parts of Ajeromi. This analysis
corroborates the destruction of the Oke Ilu-Eri community. It is confirmed by the intact presence
of the Oke Ilu-Eri community on 8 February, and the razed area as seen in the image from 8 April.
Notably, there is also construction equipment in the southern portion of the community,
apparently grading and levelling the ground; this is also visible in the 8 April image but not in
that of 8 February.73

The community of Ajeromi, directly south of Oke Ilu-Eri and outlined in the 8 April image, appears
to also be at least partially razed on that date, while apparently fully intact on 8 February.
Based on ground photographs and video footage, and the DigitalGlobe satellite imagery, it is
determined that approximately 36,000m2 of high-density housing and community infrastructure
were demolished between 8 February and 8 April 2013.




                                                                                Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
22 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




                                                                                         © DigitalGlobe 2013




   Oke Ilu-Eri, Lagos, Nigeria. Image date: 8 February 2013. 6°28'30.65"N 3°21'45.92"E




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                      IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 23
                                                                                    FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




                                                                                                                                           © DigitalGlobe 2013




Oke Ilu-Eri, Lagos, Nigeria. Image date: 8 April 2013. 6°28'25.77"N 3°21'44.13"E




                                                                            Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
24 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        DEMOLISHING PEOPLE’S HOMES WITHOUT NOTICE
                                        “I wasn’t here on 23 February – I was working – when the demolition happened but someone
                                        called me. Before we got here, they had broken our rooms. There was no notice, not even on
                                        the day of the demolition.”

                                        Jeanette James, aged 28, who rented space in a house that was demolished.




                                        Every single resident of Badia East that Amnesty International and SERAC spoke to
                                        confirmed that they did not receive prior notice of the eviction from the authorities. The
                                        Lagos State Attorney General said that the government had served a notice on the Baale74
                                        of Iganmu Alawo on 20 February 2013, three days before the eviction. The government
                                        provided a copy of the notice and photographs of the Baale receiving a document.75 The
                                        Secretary to the Baale of Iganmu Alawo76 confirmed that the Baale received “a notice”
                                        from a government delegation, which included the Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture.
                                        According to the Baale’s Secretary, the Commissioner for Agriculture, who is related to the
                                        Ojora, asked the Baale to receive the document as a representative of the Ojora. The Baale
                                        stated that he took the document to the Ojora of Ijoraland, the traditional ruler of the area
                                        that includes Badia East.77

                                        The Baale’s Secretary78 stated that after receiving the notice, the Baale had organized for
                                        a person to go around Badia announcing a meeting the following day.79 He also claimed
                                        that the Baale met with many residents of Badia at the small community centre on the
                                        following day (21 February 2013) and informed them about the notice and the imminent
                                        eviction. He asserted that the Ojora also met with some members of the community at his
                                        palace on Friday (22 February) and informed them about the contents of the notice and
                                        the imminent eviction.

                                        This version of events is contradicted by all the community members that the two
                                        organizations spoke to and by SERAC staff themselves who were present at many key
                                        meetings on 21 and 22 February 2013.

                                        Some members of the Badia East community saw a delegation of Lagos state officials,
                                        including the Lagos State Commissioners for Agriculture and Housing, along with an armed
                                        police escort, visit Badia East and present the Baale with a document. A community member
                                        stated that he could see that the document contained the Lagos state government coat of
                                        arms and some dates (13 and 20 February 2013). He was not able to get more information
                                        because he and other community members were chased away by police.80

                                        Rumours spread through the community that a demolition may be imminent and community
                                        members convened a meeting at the Better Life community centre. Four staff members of
                                        SERAC also attended the meeting. Some community members tried to call the Baale and the
                                        Ojora’s office by phone to get more information. The Baale agreed to meet some community
                                        members in Oke Ilu-Eri. SERAC staff members and at least 20 concerned residents went to
                                        meet with the Baale at his meeting space in Oke Ilu-Eri. During the course of the meeting,
                                        the Baale told SERAC and the residents that he accepted the document in his capacity as a
                                        representative of the Ojora, not as the Baale; as such, he said it would have been impudent
                                        for him to read the contents that were not for him.81




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                                                                  IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 25
                                                                                                                                FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




© Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)




                                               In the early evening of Thursday, 21 February, Megan Chapman – a SERAC staff attorney –           Residents of Badia East protesting
                                               called the Baale’s Secretary because of reports that he had been present when the Baale           on 23 Februrary 2013 as their
                                               received the notice. She reports that the Baale’s Secretary told her that there was no            homes were being demolished by
                                               timeframe for demolition and that he had personal information that no demolition would            the Lagos state government.
                                               occur before a consultation could be held between Lagos state government and residents at
                                               the Ojora’s palace.

                                               A community leader also stated that she and other community members went to the Ojora’s
                                               palace the same day but were unable to meet with him. They were only able to meet the
                                               Ojora on Friday, 22 February. Other community members claimed that after much prompting
                                               the Ojora confirmed that the notice was for demolitions but that he had sent the document to
                                               his lawyer.82

                                               Some residents, along with SERAC representatives, approached various government offices
                                               to get a copy of this document and information on the government’s plans. In the late
                                               afternoon of Thursday, 21 February, they met with the Lagos State Special Advisor on Housing
                                               who told them he knew nothing about a planned demolition and said “we don’t demolish; we
                                               build houses.”

                                               In a meeting with SERAC representatives on 22 February, the Commissioner for Housing
                                               unequivocally denied knowledge of any planned demolition, even while admitting that his
                                               Ministry had plans for a project to be undertaken in the community. By the close of the




                                                                                                                        Index: AFR 44/006/2013      Amnesty International August 2013
26 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        meeting, the Commissioner committed to raising SERAC’s concerns about the need for a
                                        more consultative planning process at an inter-ministerial meeting the following week.
                                        Despite these denials and promises, the government started demolishing Badia East less
                                        than 20 hours later.83

                                        Several of the residents who were interviewed also stated that they did not recognize the
                                        current Baale as their leader.84

                                        The copy of the “notice”, which the government shared subsequently with Amnesty
                                        International, is an “abatement of nuisance notice”, issued under the Lagos State
                                        Environmental Sanitation Law of 2000. The notice was addressed to the “owners/occupiers
                                        of illegal shanties and container in Ijora Badia by Railway line” and indicated that an
                                        environmental nuisance had been created in contravention of the Lagos State environmental
                                        law. It ordered the abatement of the nuisance within 48 hours.

                                        When asked why an abatement of nuisance notice rather than an eviction order was used for
                                        this eviction, the Lagos State Attorney General said that “an abatement of nuisance notice is
                                        given to people who have no Certificate of Occupancy85 or building permission”.86

                                        The notice document does not specify the people to whom the notice is directed, nor the
                                        structures affected. It was not served on people individually or publicly advertised. It states
                                        that the relevant sections of the law will be implemented if the nuisance is not abated but
                                        does not clarify what steps will be taken if the notice is not complied with. Neither does it
                                        provide any information on how the decision can be challenged.

                                        The use of an abatement notice to carry out demolition of homes and eviction of people is also
                                        problematic under Nigerian law. On 5 March 2013, a Lagos State High Court stated that an
                                        abatement of nuisance notice under the Environmental Sanitation Law could not be used to
                                        carry out demolitions without recourse to the court. The Court said: “The provisions of the law
                                        are clear as to the prosecution of offenders by a special court and the imposition of fine
                                        where such offenders are found guilty... The Environmental Sanitation Law under which the
                                        allegedly offensive notice was issued cannot be applied without due and proper recourse to
                                        the provisions on prosecution by the Special Court.”87

                                        As a notice to people who may be evicted, it is grossly inadequate and completely fails to
                                        meet basic due process requirements, which would require that all those affected be
                                        notified and be given an opportunity to challenge the decision, irrespective of their tenure
                                        status. The UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights has identified adequate
                                        and reasonable notice for all affected persons prior to the scheduled date of eviction as
                                        one of the key procedural protections in situations of evictions.88 The UN Basic Principles
                                        and Guidelines on Development-Based Evictions and Displacement89 also provide that
                                        “Any decision relating to evictions should be announced in writing in the local language
                                        to all individuals concerned, sufficiently in advance.”90 The time period provided to people
                                        under the notice should enable them to be able to take an inventory of their possessions,
                                        goods and other losses that may ensue.91 It is also essential that people be given sufficient
                                        time and opportunity to challenge the decision to evict and seek legal remedies.92 The
                                        Lagos state government has failed to meet all of these requirements; on the contrary,
                                        the Commissioner for Housing denied that the government was planning demolitions
                                        even the day before the forced eviction.




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                              IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 27
                                                                                            FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



FRIDAY OGUNYEMI
“It was my house that they first demolished.”




                                                         © Amnesty International
Friday Ogunyemi (pictured right) is 28 years old
and has lived his entire life in Badia. He was
among those who lost their homes and livelihood
on 23 February 2013.

“I owned a house which I built and another that I
inherited from my father. I am self employed and
owned a public bathroom in the community which
was the source of my livelihood.

“I was chased out of my house with my five-year-old
daughter and three-year-old son. The police said if
we went back into the house they were going to
shoot us; my kids were the only ones I could carry
leaving all my belongings behind. My wife was not
around; she had gone to buy some cleaning
products. By the time she returned our house
had been demolished; it was the first house to
be demolished in the area.

“I could not take any of my possessions because there were lots of policemen who came with the task
force; they came with their task force Black Maria;93 they even arrested three of my brothers. Also
there were lots of ‘hard boys’ [gangs of young men] with sledgehammers that came with the task
force and the Lagos State Physical Planning and Development Agency. The policemen that came with
the task force said, ‘if you love your life, move out.’ The police were fully armed and had batons.
People started running for their lives, including pregnant women; people were shouting.

“Before the demolition my children were schooling in Lafred private school in Ebute Meta, they are no
longer able to go to school, there is no means... I had my public toilet that I earned from, I had rooms
with tenants. I made my money from the rent I collected and it served as a daily income for me that
I could use to feed my children, to train them for schooling. Then my life was better, they have turned
my life crippled, they have turned it anti-clockwise. Up till now they have not met with us, they have
not seen maybe we are living or existing, they only want us to die. If not for the help of SERAC and
MSF [Médecins Sans Frontières/Doctors Without Borders] who had provided mosquito nets, many of
us are dying of malaria. In fact after this demolition many have died, as at last week somebody died,
so we don’t know who is next.

“I am using this opportunity to reach out to the world because I don’t have any power to fight the
government. They have been treating us as if we are animals; because we are less privileged they
treat us as if we don’t have a right to own a house in this country. They are treating us as if we are
not Nigerians. We are the ones who have been voting for them but they are now destroying the lives
of the poor.

“The only thing they give us poor people residing on this federal land [Badia] is demolition; they should
think that everyone is equal before the eyes of God.”




                                                                                    Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
28 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        SEVERE FAILURES IN THE EVICTION PROCESS
                                        “I was in my farm in Abeokuta,94 it was on environmental day; they called me and said that the
                                        Lagos state government is about to demolish every house. I was surprised and I said but they
                                        have to send a notice, all my property was in the house. When I arrived the caterpillar was in
                                        front of my house, they [the Police] said if I go in they will shoot me, they said do you have a
                                        C of O [Certificate of Occupancy]. I said but let me enter my house and pick up some of my
                                        belongings; they said no way. …They said if I enter they will gun me down. There were many
                                        police with guns; they were here with Black Maria; anyone who resisted was put in it.
                                        …They demolished everything. Till today there is no accommodation; I had to go back to my
                                        hometown because I cannot live rough. I am 75 years old and diabetic.”

                                        Chief Ola Egbayelo




                                        23 February 2013 fell on the last Saturday of the month, environmental sanitation day, when
                                        all residents in Lagos state must clean up their houses and places of work and all road traffic
                                        is restricted from 7-10am.95 From witness accounts, it appears that the first bulldozer arrived
                                        at the community at approximately 7.30am. Even at this stage, members of the community
                                        say that the operators of the bulldozer denied that they had come to carry out demolitions
                                        and evictions.96

                                        Balogun Bola, a 57-year-old woman who rented a shop with an attached room which was
                                        demolished, said, “I was here on 23 February. It was an environment sanitation day. I saw the
                                        caterpillar, it has been used before to demolish. The caterpillar driver said they were only here
                                        for the environment exercise.”97

                                        The Chairman of the Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences Enforcement Unit (Task
                                        Force) told Amnesty International that people were given a chance to remove their belongings
                                        and that their staff also checked each house before it was demolished to ensure residents’
                                        safety.98 When pressed for details, however, he was unable to describe the process through
                                        which people had been given an opportunity to remove their belongings; whether any
                                        announcements had been made at the beginning of the process; or if people had been given
                                        a set time in which to salvage building materials and possessions.99

                                        Witness accounts from people whose homes and businesses were demolished, and from
                                        SERAC staff, paint a completely different picture of what occurred. All the people interviewed
                                        stated that they were not given any opportunity to remove their belongings and that they had
                                        to shout to other residents to come out of their houses. The demolitions were carried out with
                                        bulldozers, whose operators wore uniforms of the Lagos State Physical Planning and
                                        Development Agency uniforms, and men in overalls who used sledgehammers to destroy parts
                                        of homes that the bulldozers could not easily reach. Members of the Task Force100 and dozens
                                        of armed police accompanied the demolition crews.101

                                        Sunday Omomoluwa, a 37-year-old resident, stated, “at about 7.30am we saw excavators
                                        [bulldozers] along the railroad; suddenly they came in and started shouting: everybody come
                                        outside; they drove everybody outside and started, prevented people from coming in
                                        demolishing our homes. We were not even allowed to go in to take our clothes. …They
                                        arrested some of us and put them in the Black Maria. The police said nobody should go inside




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                                                                     IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 29
                                                                                                                                   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




© Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)




                                               to take anything and pointed their guns at us and threatened to shoot. People who did not            A police officer wields a stick at
                                               come out of their homes on time were beaten by the police.”102                                       some residents of Badia East.


                                               Bayo Egbayelo, aged 37, was one of those beaten for trying to recover some of his
                                               possessions. He said, “the police beat me mercilessly because I wanted to rescue some of my
                                               belongings, they said I should have done it [before]. I said to them but you did not give me
                                               notice why do you expect me to do what I have not been notified. I was injured… my chest,
                                               my head, all my joints; I was in bed for two weeks.”103

                                               Andrew Maki, a staff attorney at SERAC, also stated that the police harassed people who
                                               were taking photographs and videos: “there were other forms of harassment, the police did
                                               not want anyone taking photographs or any video of what was ongoing, they seized several
                                               cameras, threatened people including myself. They said if I continued to take pictures there
                                               would be trouble. ... We spoke to a number of people whose phones had been seized because
                                               they were taking pictures. At one point SERAC’s video camera was seized because my
                                               colleague was filming. They would not allow that. We ended up getting it back later in the day
                                               after some negotiations. Towards the end of the day, there was panic as they [the Task Force
                                               officials] had said they were going to demolish up to a certain point and later in the afternoon
                                               it appeared they were going to demolish beyond that point. Several people began frantically




                                                                                                                           Index: AFR 44/006/2013      Amnesty International August 2013
30 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        running to collect their belongings still in those houses and shops that they had thought were
                                        safe at least for the time being. I witnessed dozens of police officers chasing people with
                                        batons in and through the small passageways and walkways and little alleys in the Ajeromi
                                        part of the community as they were trying to collect whatever belongings they could carry.”104

                                        The Chairman of the Task Force said: “No force was used in Badia East; the people were
                                        allowed to remove their belongings.” He also claimed that only one person was arrested and
                                        detained in the Black Maria because he had tried to steal someone else’s belongings. He also
                                        asserted that Black Marias are “used for protective custody of suspects” as some suspects
                                        had tried to escape custody in the past and injured themselves.105




                                          USE OF A BLACK MARIA TO DETAIN PEOPLE ON SITE
                                          Two SERAC staff attorneys who arrived at Badia around 11am on 23 February 2013 confirmed that
                                          Task Force staff detained three people in a Black Maria.106

                                          Andrew Maki, a SERAC staff attorney, stated, “the Black Maria was parked off the main road along
                                          the railroad. When we arrived, there were three young men already inside the Black Maria and in
                                          talking to some of the police officers that were on site, they said anyone that threatened to breach
                                          the peace will be locked up as well.”107

                                          Megan Chapman, another SERAC staff attorney, described how she and her colleague were told by
                                          community members that the three men had been arrested at the beginning of the demolition
                                          exercise when the Task Force arrived. “We were told the men had been locked up in the Black Maria
                                          for about three or four hours before we arrived; it was getting on to midday and it was very hot; the
                                          Black Maria was locked and the only air flow was through the air vent, it was like a metal box. …
                                          Over the course of the next few hours after we arrived, the three men remained in the Black Maria.
                                          I was approached by several people who were concerned about their wellbeing and about what was
                                          going to happen to them.”108

                                          When Megan approached the Black Maria to ask the men how they were, “they replied that they
                                          were hot, thirsty and needed water”. She was permitted by police to buy water and food for them.
                                          “I insisted I wanted to give it to them personally which allowed the police to open the Black Maria.
                                          Then I asked the policemen to leave the door open so that they [detained men] can have some
                                          fresh air. I requested that the men be released since they had done nothing wrong. The police
                                          told me they will only release them to a family member. They also said they would not release
                                          them unless the chairman of the Task Force authorized it. I went to find the chairman. …The
                                          chairman of the Task Force did not give his consent. When I asked him to authorize the release,
                                          he said it will be when the time was right that they will finish their work when they are done.
                                          The three men were released later in the day. The police told me that they [the men] were a known
                                          security risk, that they did not want trouble during the demolition exercise, and that is why they
                                          were locked up… The Black Maria was present on site even on the following day. It was used as
                                          a tool of intimidation.”109




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                                                                                 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 31
                                                                                                                                               FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA
© Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)




                                                     A “Black Maria” belonging to the Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences Enforcement Unit (Task Force), with police officers
                                                     guarding it, parked on site during the demolition in Badia East. At least three residents were detained inside the vehicle for over six hours.




                                                                                                                                       Index: AFR 44/006/2013       Amnesty International August 2013
32 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        PROVISION OF LEGAL REMEDIES AND LEGAL AID
                                        “I built one structure myself… My husband also had a structure … I did not know about the
                                        demolition. I was away when the demolition happened. People called me and told me. I sleep
                                        outside now. I used to sell food in a shop before. I don’t do anything now. I am getting help
                                        from the church. My husband is in Ogun State.”

                                        E., a 63-year-old woman who has lived in Badia for 20 years110




                                        The Lagos State government did not provide any legal remedies to those affected. As discussed
                                        in the earlier section “Demolishing people’s homes without notice”, even the abatement of
                                        nuisance notice document gave no information on avenues to challenge that decision. The
                                        government did not then or subsequently provide any information to people on the remedies
                                        available, how to access them and how to obtain legal aid services.

                                        The Lagos state Attorney General informed Amnesty International that there are two legal aid
                                        services in Lagos state: the federal legal aid service, which he said had limited capacity; and
                                        the Office of the Public Defender, run by the state government.111 Some of the affected people
                                        who spoke to Amnesty International said they had never heard of the Office of the Public Defender
                                        and were never informed they could receive legal aid.112 Officials of the Badia East Community
                                        Development Association said the only legal aid they had received was from SERAC, which
                                        assisted the community in filing a case113 in court to challenge the forced eviction.114



                                        NO ALTERNATIVE HOUSING AND COMPENSATION
                                        “The people are clearly trespassers and illegal occupants of the place. The government
                                        cannot pay to provide houses for these people. If the government pays then it will fuel the
                                        activities of illegal settlements.”115

                                        The Lagos State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice.




                                        The UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights has specified: “Evictions should
                                        not result in individuals being rendered homeless or vulnerable to the violation of other human
                                        rights. Where those affected are unable to provide for themselves, the State party must take
                                        all appropriate measures, to the maximum of its available resources, to ensure that adequate
                                        alternative housing, resettlement or access to productive land, as the case may be, is
                                        available.”116 The Committee has also stated that “States parties shall also see to it that all the
                                        individuals concerned have a right to adequate compensation for any property, both personal
                                        and real, which is affected.”117

                                        The UN Basic Principles stipulate that “[a]ll those evicted, irrespective of whether they hold
                                        title to their property, should be entitled to compensation for the loss, salvage and transport of
                                        their properties affected, including the original dwelling and land lost or damaged in the
                                        process. Consideration of the circumstances of each case shall allow for the provision of
                                        compensation for losses related to informal property, such as slum dwellings.”118 They also
                                        provide that “[c]ompensation should be provided for any economically assessable damage, as




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                      IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 33
                                                                                    FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




                                                                                                                                            © Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)
appropriate and proportional to the gravity of the violation and the circumstances of each           Children lie on a mattress
case, such as: loss of life or limb; physical or mental harm; lost opportunities, including          salvaged from the ruins of their
employment, education and social benefits; material damages and loss of earnings, including          home. Their home in Badia East
loss of earning potential; moral damage; and costs required for legal or expert assistance,          was demolished on 23 February by
medicine and medical services, and psychological and social services.”119                            the Lagos state government.


The fact that the Lagos state government did not provide any options for resettlement and
alternative housing to those evicted on 23 February 2013, or provide or put in place any
process for compensation for losses, is a particularly stark failure considering that it did not
give adequate notice to those affected, there was no support offered to transport possessions,
and even on the day of the eviction, people were not given time to salvage building materials
and their belongings.

The consequences, as discussed in greater detail in the next chapter, have been dire for the
women, men and children whose homes and businesses were demolished.120 People were left
homeless and many are still living in the open, in makeshift shelters or are dependent on
friends and family. Numerous small businesses and sources of livelihood have been destroyed.
People have lost their clothes, the personal possessions that they had bought over many years
and in many cases, documents and equipment that they used for their business or work.121

The Lagos State Commissioner for Housing announced on television several days after the
forced eviction in Badia East that “This is a three phase programme; the first one is where




                                                                            Index: AFR 44/006/2013      Amnesty International August 2013
34 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        people are not residing; it is a stack up place where people just kept things, that is where we
                                        cleared; and the intention is to build six blocks here [the area cleared], the first phase, and
                                        then move people from the second phase to this six blocks. Each block consists of 48 units;
                                        so we move them to this first phase and then we start to build the second phase. That is the
                                        plan we have and then we move to the third phase. We are having a phase one now, we are
                                        going to move people from the phase two to this building after we have constructed it, the
                                        state government has the intention of relocating them to the building for free.”122 However, in
                                        a meeting with Amnesty International,123 he stated that all the people who were evicted on
                                        23 February will not be resettled by the government in the housing project but would have
                                        the option of applying for the housing scheme like other residents of Lagos state. The
                                        Commissioner repudiated the announcement he made on television regarding provision of
                                        free housing and asserted that he was misquoted, even though he was filmed saying this on
                                        national television.

                                        The Commissioner said that the housing project was intended to benefit all the residents of
                                        Lagos state and that the government was encouraging a scheme where rich and poor people
                                        live together. The Commissioner and his staff stated that there was no project plan in writing
                                        available and neither was there a document outlining the process and criteria by which the
                                        housing units will be allocated. He said that the government is finalizing these details but less
                                        affluent people would have the option of purchasing the smaller homes124 through a subsidized
                                        mortgage scheme that the government is also in the process of developing.125 It appears that
                                        people would still need to meet standard requirements for mortgages, such as documented
                                        earnings, and even with a subsidized interest rate126 the scheme would be out of the reach of
                                        many of the affected people or those currently living in Badia.

                                        After considerable pressure from SERAC, Amnesty International and others, the government
                                        has since stated, “the Lagos state government, in collaboration with the World Bank Group,
                                        has set in motion modalities to support people who were affected during the February exercise
                                        of its urban regeneration programme”.127 This was also confirmed by the World Bank country
                                        office.128 While this is a welcome step, these procedures have not been implemented and
                                        there are a number of concerns that need to be addressed to ensure that all those affected
                                        are provided with adequate alternative housing and resettlement. These are discussed in the
                                        next chapter.




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                                                     IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 35
                                                                                                                   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



4/LIVES DESTROYED: THE IMPACT
OF FORCED EVICTION




NUMBER OF HOUSEHOLDS AND PEOPLE AFFECTED
It is difficult to record accurately the full extent of the destruction on 23 February as the
government did not clearly identify the homes that would be demolished, record details of
the people who were affected, or take an inventory of their possessions prior to the eviction.

The Badia East Technical Committee has
created a database of affected households,
including details of landlords and tenants, and
estimates of financial losses.129 These are based
on estimates of lost/damaged/destroyed
movable property and the value of the structure
destroyed. They have not included lost income,
injuries/health consequences, damages for
                                                      © Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)




periods of homelessness or periods of time
children have been out of school because of
difficulties quantifying these harms. Despite
considerable efforts, they have not been able
to identify everyone affected, particularly details
of some of the former tenants, many of whom
scattered after the forced eviction.

According to the database, at least 266
structures130 were destroyed: 170 in Ajeromi
and 96 in Oke Ilu-Eri. Some 2,237 households
lost their homes and businesses. Of these,
247 households belong to landlords and the
remaining 1,990 are tenant households. It is
estimated that household sizes ranged between
four and eight people. At a minimum, therefore,
even going by the lower estimate of household                                                                                       A section of the Badia East
sizes, at least 8,948 people were forcibly evicted.                                                                                 community before the forced
                                                                                                                                    eviction of 23 February 2013.




                                                                                                           Index: AFR 44/006/2013      Amnesty International August 2013
36 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




                                                                                                                                                     © Private
                                        PAUL
                                        Paul (pictured above with his wife and their triplets) is a 38-year-old transporter who rented a home in
                                        Badia East. As a result of the demolition, Paul is now living apart from his family. He sleeps in the open
                                        under a bridge as he looks for work, while his wife and babies live with her parents and other family
                                        members in one room.

                                        “I travelled during that period [around 23 February 2013] to see my sick mother in the village. I left my
                                        wife with my two-year-old boy, my first son. My woman’s pregnancy was eight months old, you know an
                                        eight months pregnancy is dangerous [she was pregnant with triplets]. … The shock of that bulldozer
                                        that my woman saw and the way they start bulldozing the houses …She was shocked and fainted.
                                        …Because of the shock, she started labour. According to the doctor, she was given an injection instead
                                        of an operation. She had to give birth at eight months, she delivered the triplets. …She had triplets
                                        that are premature. They are not strong. I had to take them to incubator at University Teaching Hospital
                                        in Ikeja. Right now, her health – she is not strong now, the shock. We are not living together right now.
                                        …I don’t have a house. I sleep under the bridge. She is with her parents, her mother and father in
                                        their house. … In one room … with her mother, her other sisters and brother, including my four
                                        sons. …I came back after one week. …My property, everything lost. …I don’t have money to get an
                                        apartment. My work right now is no good. For the past how many months, I have not worked. I go to see
                                        my wife and children sometimes but going there without money, I am ashamed. The father and mother
                                        are trying to do whatever they can. … If I had money, I would have rented an apartment because the
                                        babies too are missing me right now, their father.”




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                                                                    IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 37
                                                                                                                                  FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



PEOPLE LEFT HOMELESS AND DESTITUTE
“I have suffered a lot from demolitions; it has caused me a lot of setback. My house and shop
in Oke Ilu-Eri was burned by KAI [Kick Against Indiscipline] Brigade 131 last year, that was
before the canal was built; and now again my house in Ajeromi was demolished in February.
… I slept in the open with my family for three Sundays [three weeks] after the demolition;
afterwards I was able to buy some tarpaulin, which I used in constructing a small shelter.
We now sleep in a makeshift shelter, whenever it rains we get beaten heavily and we use
nylon [plastic bags] to cover up the children. …There has been no help, no water they [the
government] have not even provided garri [a cassava based cereal] for us to drink. I now beg
for food because I cannot die. … Poverty is not good, now that I do not have food to eat I
realize what poverty is. Before the demolition I could eat, I had a shop, sold groceries and
mineral drinks in crates; all was destroyed. … It is now that my business has been destroyed
and I no longer receive rent from my house that I have become this poor.“

Esther Ogundana, a woman aged in her seventies who has lived in Badia for over 15 years.132




The Lagos state government has left people homeless after it forcibly evicted them on 23                                                           Mosquito nets erected in the open
February. In the absence of any support in terms of resettlement and with the destruction of                                                       in Badia East. Many affected
means of livelihood, most of the people interviewed by Amnesty International and SERAC said                                                        residents whose homes were
that they are unable to rent or procure alternative housing for themselves. Several said that                                                      demolished slept in the open for
they were sleeping out in the open or under the bridge.133                                                                                         several weeks as they had nowhere
                                                                                                                                                   to go.
Sunday, a 45-year-old tenant who rented out
machines and did occasional transport work,
                                                                     © Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)




said, “I did not take anything out of the house,
even my clothes. Even the clothes I am wearing
now, people gave me. My home theatre, my
fridge, my set of chairs. I had some money
inside the house, almost 35,000 Naira
(US$215). I did not take anything out of the
house. I don’t have anywhere to go, I am
stranded. No home, I have run out of even
food. As I am here with you, I am hungry. I
have lost everything I could have, even my
machine. . . . I don’t have an apartment, I am
sleeping outside.”134

With no other place to go, some people resorted
to constructing makeshift shelters in any
location they could find and several structures
have sprung up on the other side of the World
Bank-funded LMDGP canal bordering the
community. The flimsiest structures comprise a
piece of tarpaulin tied to a post or supported by
sticks. Some families have managed to
construct more solid structures made out of wood and metal sheets but even then many of
them are struggling to find money to eat properly or access medical treatment.135




                                                                                                                          Index: AFR 44/006/2013      Amnesty International August 2013
38 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




                                          GROUP DISCUSSION WITH WOMEN TENANTS                             136




                                          In a group discussion, six women tenants whose homes had been demolished and who had been
                                          forcibly evicted highlighted the difficulties they have faced since 23 February 2013. Five of the
                                          women were in their thirties and the youngest was 28.

                                          Most of them had small businesses, in shops inside or attached to their homes. They all said that
                                          their homes were completely demolished and they could not rescue anything. Since the demolition,
                                          one of the women was staying with a friend and the others were sleeping outside.

                                          All the women had sent their children to relatives in other villages, leading to disruptions in their
                                          education as “they will lose the school year”. They described the difficulties of being parted from
                                          their children and how they would try to speak to them over the phone.

                                          They were also concerned about being at greater risk of illnesses living out in the open, particularly
                                          typhoid and malaria. They described how they could no longer afford to buy medicines for
                                          treatment since they had lost their businesses and sources of income. Only one of them had been
                                          able to get the medicine she needs from a friend.

                                          A 35-year-old woman complained of the harassment that she faces sleeping outside and stated
                                          that she had been attacked at night by a man but had fought him off. Another said that, sleeping
                                          out in the open, they had faced rape attempts from “area boys” [gangs of young men] from other
                                          localities.

                                          Another woman, aged 39, who said she had been managing on her own after her husband had left
                                          her, described her current situation as “dire”. She said “the government has left us outside and
                                          hungry”. Their primary request to the Lagos state government was for money to rent a house and
                                          start a business. They said they wanted “to be able to look after our children ourselves”.


                                        In a recently erected structure in the new settlement near the canal, representatives of
                                        Amnesty International and SERAC were shown the body of Iwalewa Owoyemi, aged in her
                                        seventies. According to her death certificate, she had died the previous night of typhoid.
                                        Her family said that they had been made destitute by the forced eviction. Iwalewa Owoyemi
                                        had been ill and they could not afford medical care. Her family were forced to rely on the
                                        assistance of friends and other members of the community to meet the burial costs.137

                                        Community members highlighted a few other cases of deaths of elderly people whose health
                                        had suffered after being forcibly evicted. Many of these deaths were ascribed to the shock of
                                        the eviction but, according to family and other community members, they reflected, in part,
                                        the difficulties faced by many people sleeping in the open, especially the elderly or those with
                                        pre-existing health concerns. One woman who was forcibly evicted on 23 February died on
                                        7 March from acute bronchitis, according to her death certificate.138

                                        The UN Basic Principles provide that after an eviction, the government, at a minimum and
                                        regardless of the circumstances and without discrimination, shall ensure that evicted persons
                                        or groups, especially those who are unable to provide for themselves, have safe and secure
                                        access to: essential food, potable water and sanitation; basic shelter and housing; appropriate




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                                          IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 39
                                                                                                        FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




© Amnesty International
                                                                                                                         The body of Iwalewa Owoyemi;
                                                                                                                         according to her death certificate
                                                                                                                         she died of typhoid. Her family
                                                                                                                         said that she was made destitute
                                                                                                                         by the forced eviction and they
                                                                                                                         could not afford her medical care
                                                                                                                         when she fell ill.




                     clothing; essential medical services; livelihood sources; access to common property resources
                     previously depended upon; and education for children and childcare facilities.139 No steps
                     have been taken by the Lagos state government to provide any form of relief or assistance to
                     the affected people.



                     FORCED INTO DEPENDENCY BY LOSS OF LIVELIHOODS
                     Many women in particular highlighted how the loss of their small businesses had forced them
                     to become dependent on friends, family or the broader community for food and clothing.

                     Balogun Bola, a 57-year-old tenant, had lived in Badia for nine years. She is originally from
                     Edo state and came to Lagos with her husband in 1998. Now retired, he was a soldier and
                     they lived together in the barracks. Balogun said, “He married again and the other woman
                     forced us out. I have eight children, four boys and four girls. He doesn’t give me any money
                     or take care of the children.” Balogun rented a shop with an attached room in Ajeromi and
                     lived there with her younger children. She sold food in the shop. She said, “I rented from the
                     same landlord and paid 1,000 Naira (US$6.14) monthly. On average, I made 8-10,000 Naira
                     (US$49.11-61.38) a month. The children were in the government school but now are with
                     my sister in the village because there was nowhere for them to stay [after the demolition].
                     They will try to finish their school year there. I am now staying with a friend, who has two
                     children. All four of us stay in one room. My friend is helping me.” She asserted that she and
                     other residents were not allowed by the police to take building materials or their possessions
                     from their homes. “We waited for the caterpillar [bulldozers] to leave before going back to our
                     [demolished] homes. We stayed for one week outside in the open. It is not safe to stay outside.
                     There are mosquitoes and other things. Some people were robbed at night. I lost all my
                     stock, pots, plates and chairs. I had a TV, fridge, cooking materials, bed, chairs, fans and
                     a generator. I bought it myself. I borrowed money to start the business, which I paid back.
                     I don’t want my children to stay for long in the village. …I started developing a cold, pain in




                                                                                                Index: AFR 44/006/2013      Amnesty International August 2013
40 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA
 © Amnesty International




                      Albert Olorunwa, a former youth president of Badia East and a member of the Badia East Technical Committee. His home was demolished
                      during the forced eviction of 23 February 2013.




                      Amnesty International August 2013    Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                      IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 41
                                                                                    FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



my ribs, and headache from the tension. I want money to start my business again. The
government should help me to start my life again. It is not easy to do that when you are
over 50.”140

Albert Olorunwa, aged 47, who rented out a structure and also lived in Ajeromi, injured his leg
and could not afford treatment. He told Amnesty International, “I am staying with a friend in
Ebute Meta. My wife is also staying with a friend. Since they have demolished my source of
livelihood, I have to beg before I can eat. Out of my four children, three of them have dropped
out of school since the demolition because I could not afford to keep them in school. I have
scattered three of my children to live with my brother. Only one is with me.”141

Everyone interviewed said how painful it was to be dependent on others for basic necessities.



INTIMIDATION AND HARASSMENT AFTER THE EVICTION
A number of people complained that they were harassed and intimidated by the police and
staff of the Task Force for many days after the eviction. One affected person said: “After the
demolition, where we erected our shelter to sleep, they [the Lagos state government] came
with their Task Force to threaten our lives.”142 Another said: “In order to cover up what they
[Task Force] have done, they started chasing displaced people away from the site.”143

Residents stated that on 25 March 2013 police officers visited Badia East and threatened the
people living in the open and in provisional structures with arrest if they did not move
elsewhere. They also stated that officials of the Monitoring and Enforcement Task Force
chased people away from where they had been camping and destroyed their provisional
shelters on the next day (26 March).144

A World Bank representative who visited the community after the eviction requested the
LMDGP to supply emergency water to the residents since the pipe had been cut off by one of
the bulldozers. Following the visit, residents had started erecting a water tank to receive the
emergency water. On 25 March, five people among those forcibly evicted on 23 February and
helping with the building of the water tank, were arrested by police and accused of stealing;
being cultist (gang members); and posing a threat to life. Community leaders and SERAC were
able to get the men released. Two men were released after some hours in police custody while
the three others were detained for over 48 hours; the five men were never charged with a
crime or brought before a court. One of the conditions the police gave for releasing the men
was the removal of the emergency water tank.



COMMUNITY EFFORTS TO CHALLENGE THE FORCED EVICTION
Badia East is a striking example of a community that continues to organize itself to seek
remedies for the human rights violations they have suffered, despite the fact that most people
have lost everything they had.

Two days after the evictions, on 25 February 2013, Badia East residents organized a large and
peaceful protest in front of the Lagos State Governor’s office. The protesters stood outside for
nearly five hours requesting to meet the Governor, but he did not appear.




                                                                            Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
42 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




   Forcibly evicted people of Badia East peacefully protesting against the forced eviction at the Lagos State Governor's office in Ikeja on
   25 February 2013. The protesters stood outside for nearly five hours requesting to meet the Governor, but he did not appear.




   Amnesty International August 2013      Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                           IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 43
                                                                         FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




All images: © Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)




                                                                 Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
44 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        On 28 February, SERAC filed a suit on behalf of the affected Badia East residents; in the suit,
                                        an application was made seeking an urgent injunction to prevent further forced evictions and
                                        to prevent the Lagos state government from making use of the land that was forcefully
                                        acquired. The application was dismissed by the court on 11 April. The Lagos state government
                                        had not submitted a counter-affidavit or entered an appearance in court. SERAC has appealed
                                        against the ruling to the Court of Appeal.145 The substantive suit, which seeks compensation
                                        and remedies for those who were forcibly evicted on 23 February and other orders to restrain
                                        further demolitions, is pending before the Lagos State High Court.146

                                        On 5 March, SERAC petitioned the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to investigate
                                        the eviction in Badia East.147 The NHRC responded by sending a team of officials to Lagos
                                        state to carry out an investigation. At the time of writing, the NHRC has not yet published
                                        its final decision. On 28 June 2013, four Badia East community leaders and a SERAC
                                        representative met with the NHRC in Abuja which promised that the matter would be heard
                                        and decided during a public inquiry tentatively scheduled for September 2013.

                                        The community has been very proactive in supporting victims of the forced eviction; it has
                                        also taken steps to prepare for the threat of further demolitions by Lagos state government.
                                        Since the demolition, the community has gathered every Thursday for meetings to discuss
                                        problems, progress and next steps. The community has hosted and met with numerous
                                        media representatives and international delegations in an effort to raise awareness of the
                                        plight they face. They have continued to petition the Federal Ministry of Lands, Housing
                                        and Urban Development to defend the lands as federal and to implement the long-awaited
                                        regeneration project described above.148 The effort to compile a database of all persons
                                        affected by the 23 February demolition required weeks of work by a seven-person compilation
                                        team and numerous others. The community is currently undertaking a comprehensive
                                        mapping and enumeration exercise of the remainder of Ajeromi with a view to advocating for
                                        a community-led and people-centred in situ upgrade as an alternative to future forced eviction
                                        in Badia East.




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                               IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 45
                                                                                             FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



AYINKE STEPHEN
“They should see us and treat us like any normal Nigerians.”

Ayinke Stephen (picture below right) is a 39-year-old woman who used to work as a health outreach
officer. She has lived in Badia East since she was born.

“I was born and brought up in this community. My grandmother would tell me stories. They lived in
Ajeromi, had no money and were not educated, did not know their policies [rights]. They had no one
who could tell them what to do. [Before the 1986 eviction] No one told us. I was coming back from
school. There was no house. My parents and grandmother met me on the way. They told me we have
lost everything… I finished my school but couldn’t study further because of money. In 2003, the Governor
came one afternoon; he said he gave us 48 hours. On Sunday [after the Governor’s visit in 2003], we
saw the bulldozer. My stepfather’s house was demolished …A family friend said let’s go to SERAC.

“We are part of the youth that work for the community.

                                                          © Amnesty International
This community centre was run as a mobile clinic.
I used to work as an outreach officer for the MSF
project in the community. I am a person living with
HIV. I went to Abuja to advocate for free ARVs
[antiretroviral drugs]. In 2006, I found out I was
positive. The Salvation Army helped people carry out
tests. I was one of 14 mothers who took the test.

“We have children, we are responsible people. They
should feel for us, as humans we feel pain. They
should consider us. They should see us and treat us
like any normal Nigerians.

“I inherited my mother’s house along with my other
siblings. We are five children and I have five
children of my own. Because I am positive, they
gave me the largest share. Fifteen people stayed
in that house, all five siblings. …I didn’t have a
chance to take anything. I am just left with this
shop that I rent, in which I do counselling. My MSF
contract ended last year, now I do volunteer work.

“We are sleeping in the community centre… I spend a lot of money to go to the maternity [hospital]
for free ARVs… I am hardly eating because I don’t have money. … My husband has married again. ..
He does not support us, from time to time he gives me 500 or 300 Naira [US$3.07 or US$1.84] … I
can’t look after five children on my own. I am a person living with HIV, getting a job in Nigeria is not
easy. MSF gave me an opportunity. I was willing to open up to other mothers in my situation to show
them that being positive is not the end of life.

“I walked with bulldozers throughout that day [23 February 2013]. From 1985, the government does not
remove its hand from our neck. We are Ilaje. They should leave us alone. This is our parents’ community;
they suffered a lot for it. I am not myself. I have seen my people suffering. The people I was working with
are scattered. … I have witnessed three forced evictions in 1985/86, 2003 and 2013. I am suffering
because I am not educated. I want my people to remain in this community.”




                                                                                    Index: AFR 44/006/2013      Amnesty International August 2013
46 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        5/RESETTLEMENT WITHIN THE
                                        LMDGP RESETTLEMENT POLICY
                                        FRAMEWORK




                                        “We really want to embrace development but
                                        not harsh treatment, not sending people out
                                        of the community, not adding poverty to
                                        poverty, not pushing boys into crime, not
                                        pushing girls into prostitution, because this
                                        is what is happening now as I speak to you.”
                                        Abiola Ogunyemi, Badia East community leader.149




                                        The Lagos state government has now stated that “the Lagos State Government in collaboration
                                        with the World Bank Group has set in motion modalities to support people who were affected
                                        during the February exercise of its urban regeneration programme. The initial census of
                                        affected persons which was superintended by the traditional ruler of the area will be validated
                                        and a socio-economic assessment of the impact will be conducted in accordance with
                                        principles set out by the Resettlement Policy Framework, endorsed by the State Government
                                        to identify those genuinely affected by the exercise with a view to rendering needed support
                                        to them”.150

                                        While this is a welcome and overdue first step, there are a number of outstanding concerns
                                        that must be addressed as a matter of priority to ensure that everyone who was forcibly evicted
                                        by the Lagos state government is provided with an effective remedy, including adequate
                                        alternative housing and compensation for losses.




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                             IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 47
                                                                                           FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




 THE RIGHT TO AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY
 All victims of human rights violations have the right to an effective remedy. This right has been
 recognized in international and regional human rights treaties and instruments, to which Nigeria
 is a state party.151 The Basic Principles and Guidelines on Development Based Evictions and
 Displacement also provide that “All persons threatened with or subject to forced evictions have
 the right of access to timely remedy. Appropriate remedies include a fair hearing, access to legal
 counsel, legal aid, return, restitution, resettlement, rehabilitation and compensation….”152

 Any resettlement must comply with international standards on adequate housing. In particular it
 must meet the seven elements of “adequacy” of housing identified by the Committee on Economic,
 Social and Cultural Rights – legal security of tenure; availability of services, materials, facilities
 and infrastructure; affordability; habitability; accessibility; location; and cultural
 appropriateness.153

 The Lagos state government must provide all those who were forcibly evicted with an effective
 remedy, including adequate alternative housing and compensation. The World Bank, as it supports
 the government in developing and implementing a resettlement action plan, must also ensure that
 the plan and any resettlement comply with international human rights law.




CONSULTATION ON THE RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
The World Bank Nigeria Office informed Amnesty International and SERAC that the
Bank had raised concerns about the 23 February eviction with the Governor of Lagos
state.154 The World Bank also confirmed that the Lagos state government has agreed to
extend the Resettlement Policy Framework to the people who have been evicted. This
requires the preparation of a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP),155 which must be approved
by the World Bank.

According to the Resettlement Policy Framework, resettlement action plans should be
developed in consultation with the affected people and other stakeholders156 and before any
“displacement” occurs.157 This is also a requirement under international human rights law.158
Although the RAP for Badia East is being developed retrospectively, the requirement for
consultation with the affected people is even more vital in this situation to ensure that the
resettlement and compensation arrangements that are agreed upon are appropriate for
their needs and can provide reparation for the harm they have suffered, which is greatly
compounded by the months of delay.

The World Bank has committed that “The preparation of the RAP will be underpinned by a
strong consultative process.”159

The Lagos state government convened a “stakeholders’ meeting” on 4 July 2013, for which
it posted notices in Badia East on 2-3 July 2013. The notice only identified Oke Ilu-Eri [not
Ajeromi] as the area affected by the 23 February 2013 demolition, and acknowledged only
that the demolition entailed the “removal of temporary wooden structures occupied by some
individuals.”160




                                                                                  Index: AFR 44/006/2013      Amnesty International August 2013
48 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        The meeting, which took place at the National Theatre in Iganmu, was convened by the
                                        Lagos state government Technical Committee on Badia East,161 and was attended by a
                                        large delegation of Lagos state officials, including Commissioners for Housing, Physical
                                        Planning, and Agriculture, a well as a representative of the World Bank Nigeria Office,
                                        officials from the LMDGP, the Ojora, and thousands of residents of Badia East. Most of
                                        the meeting comprised lengthy presentations and speeches by Lagos state government
                                        officials, primarily aimed at urging residents to welcome the planned Ministry of Housing
                                        project, including subsequent demolitions. Thereafter, approximately eight residents
                                        of Badia East, including the Baale and the Baale’s Secretary, were afforded the opportunity
                                        to speak for two minutes each and ask questions. In his response to a question, the
                                        Lagos State Commissioner for Housing told residents that the “inconveniences” they
                                        were suffering were for their own benefit. Soon thereafter, the meeting concluded without
                                        any response to the questions and demands that were raised by a few Badia East
                                        residents. The only mention of the development of a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
                                        or compensation came from the World Bank’s representative. The World Bank
                                        representatives stated that they expected the census to be completed by 31 July 2013
                                        and the RAP to be developed by 31 August 2013.162

                                        The World Bank and the Lagos state government should urgently communicate to all
                                        affected people details of the process that will be used to develop the RAP and what
                                        people are entitled to under the Resettlement Policy Framework. Such a process must
                                        include opportunities for the affected people to provide an input on possibilities for
                                        resettlement and compensation, and to suggest other feasible options. The timeline
                                        for different stages of development and implementation of the RAP should also be
                                        conveyed as soon as possible.



                                        IDENTIFYING ALL THOSE AFFECTED
                                        The Lagos State Attorney General informed Amnesty International that the government would
                                        validate the census “superintended by the traditional ruler” (the Ojora).

                                        The Baale’s Secretary informed Amnesty International that he was part of the group who
                                        had been nominated to prepare a list of people who lived in the area prior to the 23
                                        February eviction as he is a long-term resident of the area. He stated that he completed
                                        the database of house owners in Oke Ilu-Eri.163 However, Amnesty International and SERAC
                                        have been unable to find any announcement of a formal process through which such a
                                        survey was conducted or through which residents were given opportunity to review and
                                        challenge the results of the survey. Considering the ongoing dispute between the Ojora
                                        family and many of the residents of Badia East about ownership of the land, it is all the
                                        more necessary for the process of identification of claims/usage of land to be carried out
                                        by an independent party.

                                        The World Bank has also responded to concerns about the accuracy of this census: “the Bank
                                        team has suggested a number of mechanisms that could be used to compile the data sets
                                        required for the census, including lists and photos prepared by the local community in Badia
                                        East for the households and structures demolished on February 23rd and 24th. The team has
                                        also informed the Government that the census undertaken by the Ojora would not meet Bank
                                        requirements and that a transparent, consultative process is required…”164




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                           IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 49
                                                                                         FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



Any process used to identify beneficiaries must be fully transparent, independent and widely
notified. It must also be developed in consultation with the affected people and they must have
the opportunity to verify and challenge any final lists of beneficiaries and/or estimates of losses.

The database prepared and verified by the 10-person committee made up of Badia East
residents and leaders (from both Oke Ilu-Eri and Ajeromi) may offer a better starting point for
the exercise considering that it includes both landlords and tenants affected and has gone
through multiple stages of verification by the committee members, SERAC and through a
broad-based and open verification exercise.



OPTIONS FOR RESETTLEMENT
The World Bank stated to Amnesty International that the government would identify options
for resettlement of people who were evicted in line with the Resettlement Policy Framework.
In subsequent conversations with SERAC, World Bank officials have highlighted that the
government may not provide any resettlement to the affected people. They also stated that it
is likely that the government will extend the resettlement action plan it developed to cover
people who were evicted for construction of the LMDGP Canal in Badia East, under which
people were offered small sums to assist them in rebuilding their demolished structures on the
same site within the community.

In a letter to Amnesty International, the World Bank stated that “the Bank team explained
to the Government that, in accordance with OP 4.12, the RAP addendum would need to
clearly explain why people could not be relocated to another site, including any near Badia,
if this is indeed the case. The team has further advised that if cash compensation is all
that is offered, the government needs to ensure that affected people are provided with
appropriate sustainable livelihood assistance, such as skills training, micro-credit, and
employment opportunities.”165

It is essential that people who are unable to provide for themselves are offered adequate
alternative housing. The UN Basic Principles provide that “[c]ash compensation should
under no circumstances replace real compensation in the form of land and common property
resources.”166 They also elaborate on the guidance provided by the Committee on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights and state, “The State must make provision for the adoption of all
appropriate measures, to the maximum of its available resources, especially for those who are
unable to provide for themselves, to ensure that adequate alternative housing, resettlement
or access to productive land, as the case may be, is available and provided. Alternative
housing should be situated as close as possible to the original place of residence and source
of livelihood of those evicted.”167

The Lagos state government has made vague promises about giving affected people the
option to buy into its planned housing scheme, but all indications are that most would be
unable to qualify for or afford the mortgage. Moreover, the first phase of 288 units planned
for the already demolished area would accommodate only a fraction of the 2,237 affected
households and are not scheduled to be completed until December 2014. The option to
purchase a home in the housing scheme is not an adequate form of resettlement and would
not satisfy requirements to provide adequate alternative housing for those who cannot provide
for themselves.




                                                                                 Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
50 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        One possibility for full and effective reparation that should be considered is the relocation of
                                        people back to the original site from which they were forcibly evicted. The Basic Principles
                                        provide that “when circumstances allow, States should prioritize these rights [of restitution
                                        and return] of all persons, groups and communities subjected to forced evictions.”168

                                        Many of the people who were forcibly evicted by the Lagos state government on 23 February
                                        have extremely strong links to Badia East and it is important that the government consider
                                        resettlement options in Badia itself. Any proposals for resettlement must be developed in
                                        consultation with all those affected and comply with international human rights standards,
                                        including the seven elements of “adequacy” of housing.169



                                        ADDRESS IMMEDIATE NEEDS FOR ASSISTANCE
                                        While the Resettlement Action Plan is being developed and pending its full implementation,
                                        the Lagos state government should urgently provide the much-needed emergency support
                                        and assistance that the community requires. This includes options for temporary housing;
                                        access to health, education, water, sanitation and other services; provision of food and
                                        clothing; and support in re-establishing small businesses and accessing sources of work.170




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                      IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 51
                                                                                    FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



6/A TREND OF DEMOLITIONS AND
FORCED EVICTIONS IN LAGOS
STATE




The 23 February forced eviction is reflective of a broader pattern of forced evictions by Lagos
state authorities, which Amnesty International and SERAC have documented. Mass evictions
and demolition of the homes of thousands of people have taken place in the absence of legal
and procedural safeguards, including opportunities for genuine consultation, adequate notice,
access to legal remedies, and provision of adequate alternative housing and compensation.
Thousands of people in several informal settlements in Lagos state remain at risk of forced
evictions and with no legal security of tenure. The Badia East community, in particular, has
suffered repeatedly from demolitions and forced evictions.171

Makoko, another informal settlement in Lagos state, has suffered repeatedly from demolitions
and forced evictions. Over three days in April 2005, at least 3,000 people were forcibly evicted
from their homes. Bulldozers demolished homes, churches, schools and a medical clinic.
After demolishing the buildings, officials were reported to have set the remaining material on
ﬁre so that they could not be used for rebuilding. Affected persons reportedly stated that
they received no notice of the demolition.172 To date, they have received no compensation or
alternative accommodation.173

Between 19 and 22 April 2010, officials of the KAI Brigade assisted by heavily armed police
entered a section of the Makoko community and forcibly evicted the residents by destroying
their homes, properties and livelihoods. Over 1,000 people were made homeless. This eviction
was carried out without adequate notice, consultation, compensation or provision of alternative
accommodation.174

On 23 December 2010, the Task Force, accompanied by armed police officers entered an
area of Makoko along Wright Street and carried out a violent demolition and forcibly evicted
thousands of residents. During the course of the demolition, the police shot dead one Makoko
resident, left some residents and bystanders wounded, and arrested over 30 individuals
who were detained without charge for several days. The forced eviction followed a 48-hour
“abatement of nuisance” notice and there was no consultation, compensation or provision of
alternative accommodation.175




                                                                            Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
52 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




                                                                                                                                          © Amnesty International
   A makeshift home in Makoko,          From 16–21 July 2012, thousands of people were forcibly evicted and made homeless by the
   Lagos state, in February 2013.       Lagos state government on the Makoko/Iwaya waterfront, an informal settlement in Lagos.
   The Lagos State authorities had      Numerous structures built on stilts over the Lagos Lagoon were demolished, affecting at least
   forcibly evicted people from their   770 households.176 There was no genuine consultation with the community and only three
   homes seven months earlier, in       days’ notice was given to a few residents before the forced eviction.177 For several days
   July 2012.                           afterwards, many affected people were forced to live in their canoes. SERAC’s long-standing
                                        engagement with the Makoko community, and visits by Amnesty International in February and
                                        May 2013, confirmed that many people are still displaced, with some forcibly evicted residents
                                        still living in makeshift shelters. The forced eviction in Makoko only appears to have stopped
                                        because of a protest march and public outcry after a community leader was shot dead by
                                        police. The fear of further forced evictions continues to negatively affect the community which
                                        is concerned that the government may resume its plans to demolish the waterfront.




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                            IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 53
                                                                                          FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



On 5 March 2013, the Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit
demolished an estimated 182 houses in the community of Odo-Iragunshi near Epe, Lagos
state, and forcibly evicted residents. The demolition took place while residents were awaiting a
13 March consultation with the Lagos state government, including the Ministry of Land and
Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, facilitated
by the Lagos State House of Representatives. At least 40 families were then left sleeping
outside and others in their cars for several weeks. To date, there has been no provision of
compensation or alternative accommodation.178



‘KICK AGAINST INDISCIPLINE’ BRIGADE AND THE LAGOS STATE
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SPECIAL OFFENCES ENFORCEMENT UNIT
“Development will not happen if ‘what is on ground’ is not changed.”179

Chairman of the Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences Enforcement Unit




The Kick Against Indiscipline (KAI) Brigade and the Lagos State Environmental and Special
Offences Enforcement Unit (Task Force) are two agencies of the Lagos state government that
have been involved with carrying out forced evictions and demolition of homes in Lagos
state. Their operations are mostly supported by heavily armed security forces who, in the
case of Makoko described above, use disproportionate force, including live ammunition,
against residents.

According to eyewitnesses and survivors of the 23 December 2010 demolition at Wright
Street in Makoko, a Task Force vehicle pulled up at the scene of the demolition with armed
policemen shooting indiscriminately from the vehicle. One man was killed and several other
residents and bystanders were injured; those who were injured were taken back to Task
Force office and detained until a SERAC intervention led to the transfer of the injured to
hospital for urgent medical attention.180 On 22 July 2012, the sixth day of the demolition of
the Makoko waterfront, a community leader was shot and killed by a policeman. The
policeman has been subjected to internal police disciplinary procedures but as of the time
of writing, has not been prosecuted.181

During its demolition of homes in Badia East in March 2012, the KAI Brigade set fire to some
of the structures, endangering the lives of people living there. In July 2012 in Makoko, the
Brigade used chainsaws and axes to cut the stilts of the structures while families, including
children, were still in their homes. Some of the structures were also set on fire by the Brigade.




                                                                                  Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
54 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        7/CONCLUSION




                                        The Lagos state government, as the executive organ of a territorial unit of the Nigerian state (a
                                        second tier unit within the Nigerian federal system), must act consistently with Nigeria’s
                                        obligations under international law. This report has described how the Lagos state government
                                        has violated the right to adequate housing of the residents of Badia East by failing to put in
                                        place any of the legal safeguards, required under international law, prior to evicting thousands
                                        of residents of Badia East on 23 February 2013.

                                        The Lagos state government’s failure to respect the right to adequate housing of the residents
                                        of Badia East has had devastating consequences on their lives. Although this report has
                                        focused on the specific case of Badia East, this situation and the issues it raises are
                                        characteristic of a broader pattern of forced evictions by the Lagos state government. In
                                        numerous forced evictions documented by SERAC and Amnesty International, the Lagos state
                                        government has failed to consult people to explore alternatives to the eviction, provide
                                        adequate notice, legal remedies, compensation and adequate alternative housing.

                                        The lack of an explicit prohibition on forced evictions under national law, and legislation setting
                                        out the procedural safeguards that must be complied with prior to any eviction, has enabled
                                        these failures to persist. The Nigerian government has failed the people of Badia East by
                                        resettling many of them in the area without documents that would protect their security of
                                        tenure. It has not provided effective remedies to people who were forcibly evicted or prevented
                                        repeated forced evictions by the Lagos state government in Badia East. Both federal and state
                                        governments have failed to adopt a strong legal framework on the right to adequate housing,
                                        including forced evictions, which would regulate the actions of all public officials and agents.
                                        Without such a legal framework, it is very difficult for people whose rights are violated to hold
                                        public officials accountable and to access effective remedies and reparation.

                                        The consequences of the failures of the Lagos state and Nigerian government to comply with
                                        their obligations to respect the right to adequate housing are felt most severely by people who
                                        are already living in poverty. Many Nigerians living in informal settlements, like the residents of
                                        Badia East, have been repeatedly forcibly evicted and had to rebuild their lives many times over.

                                        The residents of Badia East must be provided with effective remedies and reparation for the
                                        violations they have suffered. The Nigerian government must take the greatly overdue step of
                                        imposing a moratorium on mass evictions until it has adopted legislation protecting all persons
                                        from forced evictions. This is the only way it can provide justice to people in Badia East and
                                        many others who live daily under threat of forced evictions.




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                       IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 55
                                                                                     FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



RECOMMENDATIONS

TO THE LAGOS STATE GOVERNMENT

 Immediately stop carrying out forced evictions and ensure that all public officials and
agents of the state do not carry out or support forced evictions.

 Provide an effective remedy and reparation to all those who were forcibly evicted from
Badia East on 23 February 2013. Such reparation should include, among other things,
adequate alternative housing for all those who cannot provide for themselves and
compensation for all losses.

 Consult all affected people on the development and implementation of the Resettlement
Action Plan for Badia East and ensure that any resettlement that is offered complies with
international standards on “adequacy” of housing,

 Immediately provide assistance to all those who were evicted. Such assistance should
include options for temporary housing, access to water, sanitation, education and health care
services, provision of food and clothing and support in re-establishing businesses and
accessing sources of work.

 Consult residents of Badia East on the plans for regeneration of the area and ensure that
these plans comply with international standards, including requirements to prioritize the most
disadvantaged groups and to refrain from forced evictions.

 Adopt a state-level moratorium on mass evictions until adequate legal and procedural
safeguards are in place to ensure that all evictions comply with international human rights
standards and national laws.

 Introduce a bill in the Lagos State House of Assembly that explicitly prohibits forced
evictions and sets out safeguards that must be strictly followed before any eviction is carried
out. This law should be based on the UN Basic Principles and Guidelines on Development-
based Evictions and Displacement and comply with international human rights standards.

 Ensure that any housing programmes and policies prioritize the most disadvantaged groups.

 Respect any federal moratorium on mass eviction.



TO THE GOVERNOR OF LAGOS STATE

 Publicly commit to stopping forced evictions in Lagos state.

 Sign into law, without delay, any Lagos State House of Assembly bill explicitly prohibiting
forced evictions.

 Direct the Kick Against Indiscipline Brigade and the Lagos State Environmental and
Special Offences Enforcement Unit to ensure that they do not carry out forced evictions and




                                                                             Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
56 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



                                        to ensure that any use of force by them during an eviction is proportionate, lawful and
                                        necessary and complies with international standards.



                                        TO THE LAGOS STATE HOUSE OF ASSEMBLY

                                         Adopt a resolution condemning forced evictions in Lagos state.

                                         Pass into law, without delay, a bill explicitly prohibiting forced evictions.



                                        TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

                                         Ensure that all those who were forcibly evicted from Badia East are provided with
                                        effective remedies and reparation. Such reparation should include, among other things,
                                        adequate alternative housing for all those who cannot provide for themselves and
                                        compensation for all losses.

                                         Provide documents to residents of Badia East conferring security of tenure on them and
                                        implement the holistic slum regeneration plan developed in 2004-2005.

                                         Publicly condemn all forced evictions in Nigeria.

                                         Adopt a federal moratorium on mass evictions until adequate legal and procedural
                                        safeguards are in place to ensure that all evictions comply with international human rights
                                        standards and national laws.

                                         Introduce a bill in the National Assembly that explicitly prohibits forced evictions and sets
                                        out safeguards that must be strictly followed before any eviction is carried out. This law should
                                        be based on the UN Basic Principles and Guidelines on Development-based Evictions and
                                        Displacement and comply with international human rights standards.

                                         Ratify the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural
                                        Rights.



                                        TO THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY

                                         Adopt a resolution condemning all forced evictions in Nigeria.

                                         Pass into law, without delay, a bill explicitly prohibiting forced evictions.



                                        TO THE NATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISION

                                         Support those who were forcibly evicted in Badia East in accessing effective remedies
                                        and publicly release the determination of the Commission following its investigation into the
                                        forced eviction in Badia East.




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                        IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 57
                                                                                      FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



 Accelerate the process to conduct a nationwide inquiry into forced evictions and enable
civil society and communities’ participation in such a process.

 Prioritize plans for the development of guidelines setting out safeguards against forced
evictions, based on international human rights standards, including the UN Basic Principles
on Development-Based Evictions and Displacement, in consultation with civil society and
affected communities.



THE WORLD BANK

 Ensure that the resettlement action plan being developed by the Lagos state government
with the support of the World Bank fully complies with the government’s commitments under
the LMDGP Resettlement Policy Framework and international human rights standards, in
particular on the rights to an effective remedy and adequate housing

 Require the Nigerian government and any relevant state government to explicitly commit
to not carrying out forced evictions in relation to any projects supported by the World Bank,
even if such evictions are not directly linked to project funded activities, as they may negatively
impact project beneficiaries.

 Put in place adequate safeguards to ensure that the World Bank does not support any
projects or activities that may result in forced evictions or other human rights abuses.




                                                                              Index: AFR 44/006/2013     Amnesty International August 2013
58 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA



   8/ENDNOTES




   1 Agbara is another area in Lagos state.                                  members attended, where they told Badia East residents that they
                                                                             would have the option to buy housing units.
   2 Extracts from interview, Badia East, 15 May 2013.
                                                                             10 Lagos state government statement of defence, para. 6, in Prince
   3 The same agency is also referred to as the Lagos State
                                                                             J.A. Ilawole & others and the Governor of Lagos State & others, Suit
   Environmental and Special Offences Enforcement Unit and
                                                                             No: M/162/2013,
   occasionally as the Environmental Sanitation Enforcement Agency,
   see http://www.lagosstate.gov.ng/entities.php?k=135 (last accessed        11 Amnesty International interview with the Lagos State Attorney
   4 July 2013).                                                             General and Commissioner for Justice, Secretariat, Ikeja, Lagos,
                                                                             15 May 2013.
   4 The Badia East Technical Committee has created a database of
   affected households, including details of landlords and tenants, and      12 Letter to Amnesty International from the Lagos State government,
   estimates of financial losses.                                            sent by the Lagos State Attorney General, dated 4 May 2013.
   5 The UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights                13 World Bank, Resettlement policy framework, Vol. 1, Nigeria -
   defines a forced eviction as “the permanent or temporary removal          Lagos Metropolitan Development Project: resettlement plan, section
   against their will of individuals, families and/or communities from the   5.2, p.11, available at http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/
   homes and/or land which they occupy, without the provision of, and        en/2005/05/6059098/nigeria-lagos-metropolitan-development-
   access to, appropriate forms of legal or other protection.” See UN        project-resettlement-plan-vol-1-3-resettlement-policy-framework
   Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General                (last accessed 25 June 2013).
   Comment No. 7: The right to adequate housing (Article 11.1) of the
                                                                             14 The Badia East Technical Committee was established in the
   International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights):
                                                                             immediate aftermath of the 23 February 2013 forced eviction
   forced evictions, para 3, (Sixteenth session, 20 May 1997),
                                                                             to advocate for adequate remedy for all those affected. The
   E/1998/22, Annex IV, para 3.
                                                                             Committee comprises 10 community leaders from the Ajeromi
   6 World Bank, Nigeria - Lagos Metropolitan Development and                and Oke Ilu-Eri communities of Badia East. Note: this Committee
   Governance Project: Project Appraisal Document, World Bank,               has no relationship with the Lagos State Government Technical
   2006, p.5, available at: http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/          Committee on Badia East.
   en/2006/06/6864622/nigeria-lagos-metropolitan-development-
                                                                             15 An area of Lagos state that includes Badia East. A Baale is the
   governance-project (last accessed 12 June 2013).
                                                                             traditional head of a Yoruba community. The Baale of Iganmu Alawo
   7 World Bank, Nigeria - Lagos Metropolitan Development and                was appointed by the Ojora of Ijoraland, the traditional ruler of the
   Governance Project: Project Information Document, World Bank,             area that includes Badia East.
   2006, p.5, available at: http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/
                                                                             16 Interview, Badia East, 16 May 2013.
   en/2006/01/6774640/nigeria-lagos-metropolitan-development-
   governance-project (last accessed 10 July 2013).                          17 A megacity is a city with a population of more than 10 million
                                                                             people.
   8 Project Appraisal Document, p.5. Also see p.92, “The activities
   under infrastructure investments for upgrading 9 slums will entail        18 UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs/Population
   civil works in upgrading sub-projects in: Agege, Ajegunle, Amukoko,       Division, World Urbanization Prospects: The 2011 Revision –
   Badia , Iwaya, Makoko, Ilaje, Bariga, Ijeshatedo/Itire.”                  Highlights, UN. Doc. ESA/P/WP/224, March 2012, United Nations,
                                                                             pp. 22-23.
   9 Amnesty International meeting with the Lagos state Commissioner
   for Housing, Secretariat, Ikeja, 17 May 2013. This was also               19 United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-HABITAT),
   confirmed by the Lagos state government officials in the                  The challenge of slums: Global report on human settlements 2003,
   Stakeholders’ Meeting on 4 July 2013, which some SERAC staff              UN-HABITAT and Earthscan, 2003, p.267.




   Amnesty International August 2013       Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                          IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 59
                                                                                        FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




20 UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs/Population             33 Estimate projected from 2005 survey data in which 46.43% of
Division, World Urbanization Prospects: The 2011 Revision –            workers in Badia were reported to earn less than N7,500 per month.
Highlights, p.24.                                                      “Social Housing Initiative Talks Begin”, serac@work (Nov. 2005),
                                                                       pp. 8-9. All conversions of Nigerian Naira to US dollars is based
21 F. Morka, A place to live: a case study of the Ijora-Badia
                                                                       on the exchange rate available at http://www.oanda.com/currency/
community in Lagos, Nigeria, Case study prepared for Enhancing
                                                                       converter/ (value as of 3 July 2013).
Urban Safety and Security: Global Report on Human Settlements
2007, available at http://www.unhabitat.org/grhs/2007 (last accessed   34 Copies of registered surveys and other relevant documents on
19 June 2013), p.4.                                                    file at SERAC.
22 Report of the Presidential Task Force on Lagos Mega City, 2006,     35 F. Morka, A place to live: a case study of the Ijora-Badia
p.13, (on file with SERAC).                                            community in Lagos, Nigeria, p.8.
23 F. Abosede, “Housing in Lagos Mega City – Improving Livability,     36 Letters from National Railway Corporation to Badia East
Inclusion and Governance”, Paper presented at SERAC’s                  CDA on file at SERAC; F. Morka, A place to live: a case study
International Conference on Building Nigeria’s Capacity to             of the Ijora-Badia community in Lagos, Nigeria”, p. 12; Molaj
Implement Economic, Social and Cultural Rights: Lessons                Consultants, “Urban Renewal in Badia, Apapa Local
Learned, Challenges and the Way Forward, Abuja, 27-28                  Government, Lagos State: Detailed Site Investigation Report
September 2006.                                                        (Federal Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, 2005)
                                                                       (on file at SERAC).
24 World Bank, Nigeria – Lagos Metropolitan Development and
Governance Project: Project Appraisal Document, World Bank,            37 Aromire & Ors v. Daniel & Ors, Suit No LD/443/2002 (on file
2006, available at: http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/            with SERAC).
en/2006/06/6864622/nigeria-lagos-metropolitan-development-
                                                                       38 “All Slums to Go: Makoko, Ijora, Badiya, Ilubirin & 11 Others
governance-project, p.2.
                                                                       Affected”, PM News, 15 July 1996, pp. 1 and 5 (quoting the
25 World Bank, Nigeria – Lagos Metropolitan Development and            Commissioner for Environment and Physical Planning).
Governance Project: Project Appraisal Document, p.2.
                                                                       39 All Slums to Go: Makoko, Ijora, Badiya, Ilubirin & 11 Others
26 See World Bank, Nigeria – Lagos Metropolitan Development and        Affected,” PM News, 15 July 1996, p.5.
Governance Project: Project Appraisal Document, p.32.
                                                                       40 “When willful blindness doesn’t cut it: Making the case for World
27 F. Morka, A place to live: a case study of the Ijora-Badia          Bank accountability to the women in Lagos slums”, Access Quarterly
community in Lagos, Nigeria, p.7.                                      (SERAC, 4th quarter, 1999) pp.5-10; Request for Inspection – In the
                                                                       Matter of the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project (Credit No.
28 “Social Housing Initiative Talks Begin”, serac@work (Nov. 2005)
                                                                       2517-0), filed by SERAC 17 June 1998 (reproduced in full pp.8-10,
pp.8-9.
                                                                       serac@work, April-August 1998).
29 Interview with Chief A.A. Ilawole, Badia East, 15 May 2013.
                                                                       41 Request for Inspection, World Bank Inspection Panel – In the
30 F. Morka, A place to live: a case study of the Ijora-Badia          Matter of the Lagos Drainage and Sanitation Project (Credit No.
community in Lagos, Nigeria, p.3. Interviews, Badia East, 15           2517-0), filed by SERAC 17 June 1998 (reproduced in full pp.8-10
May 2013.                                                              serac@work, April-August 1998).
31 F. Morka, A place to live: a case study of the Ijora-Badia          42 F. Morka, A place to live: a case study of the Ijora-Badia
community in Lagos, Nigeria, p.3.                                      community in Lagos, Nigeria, p.9.
32 F. Morka, A place to live: a case study of the Ijora-Badia          43 F. Morka, A place to live: a case study of the Ijora-Badia
community in Lagos, Nigeria, p.3.                                      community in Lagos, Nigeria, p.12; “Thousands rally against




                                                                               Index: AFR 44/006/2013        Amnesty International August 2013
60 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




   widespread demolitions in Lagos State”, SERAC@Work (January-            53 Article 11(1) of the International Covenant on Economic Social
   March 2004), pp.1-2; Chief Ogunyemi Adewale v. Governor of Lagos        and Cultural Rights, acceded to by Nigeria on 29 July 1993; Article
   State & Ors. Suit No. M/419/2003.                                       27(3) of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by
                                                                           Nigeria on 19 April 1991; Article 5(e)(iii) of the International
   44 F. Morka, A place to live: a case study of the Ijora-Badia
                                                                           Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
   community in Lagos, Nigeria, pp.12-14.
                                                                           Discrimination, acceded to by Nigeria on 16 October 1967;
   45 F. Morka, A place to live: a case study of the Ijora-Badia           Article 17 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political
   community in Lagos, Nigeria, pp.12-14.                                  Rights (ICCPR), acceded to by Nigeria on 29 July 1993; and
   46 Molaj Consultants, “Urban Renewal in Badia, Apapa Local              Article 16 of the Protocol to the African Charter on Human
   Government, Lagos State: Detailed Site Investigation Report”,           and Peoples' Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa, ratified
   Federal Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, 2005 (on             by Nigeria on 16 December 2004.
   file at SERAC).                                                         54 Article 27, Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties 1969.
   47 Correspondence from Badia East CDA to Federal Ministry of            55 The African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights (ACHPR) was
   Lands, Housing, and Urban Development, 2009-2013 (on file at            domesticated by Nigeria in 1983 as the African Charter on Human
   SERAC); interview with Chief A.A. Ilawole, Badia East, 15 May 2013;     and Peoples' Rights (Ratification and Enforcement) Act. The
   interview with Secretary to late Baale of Oke Ilu-Eri, Badia East,      provisions of the ACHPR are binding and persons exercising
   15 May 2013.                                                            legislative, executive or judicial powers in Nigeria are mandated to
   48 Interview with Secretary to late Baale of Oke Ilu-Eri, Badia East,   apply it and give it full recognition and effect.
   15 May 2013; correspondence from Federal Ministry of Lands,             56 Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC) and Center
   Housing, and Urban Development, 2010-2011 (on file at SERAC).           for Economic and Social Rights (CESR) v. Nigeria, Communication
   49 Interview, Badia East, in which community members narrated           No. 155/96, para 60.
   information obtained over a phone call with the Federal Ministry.       57 Chapter 4 of Nigeria’s Constitution provides for fundamental
   SERAC meetings with Deputy Director of Department of Urban and          human rights and these are enforceable in the courts through the
   Regional Development, Ministry of Lands, Housing, and Urban             mechanism provided for under the Fundamental Rights
   Development, Abuja, 28 February 2013; SERAC meeting with                (Enforcements Procedure) Rules 2009. Economic, social and
   Director of Department of Urban and Regional Development, Ministry      cultural rights, however, are not guaranteed as fundamental human
   of Lands, Housing, and Urban Development, Abuja, 28 June 2013.          rights under the Constitution but are provided for in Chapter 2 as
   50 KAI Brigade is the Law Enforcement Unit of the Lagos State           Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy.
   Ministry of the Environment. It was established on 3 November           No mechanism exists for their enforcement, because economic,
   2003 by the then Governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu. The Brigade      social and cultural rights are treated as not justiciable and therefore
   was established to enforce the Environmental Sanitation Law of          unenforceable in the courts.
   Lagos State.                                                            58 Nigeria became a state party to the International Covenant on
   51 SERAC monitored the eviction. Part of this information was           Economic Social and Cultural Rights on 29 July 1993; the
   collected during SERAC and the LMDGP Project Director’s visit to        International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) on
   Badia East on 6 March 2012; SERAC and LMDGP Project Director            29 July 1993; and the African Charter on Human and Peoples'
   also had a meeting with Badia East community on 7 March 2012.           Rights on on 22 June 1983.

   52 The amounts paid ranged from N176,000-380,000 (US$1080 –             59 UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General
   2332), documents related to compensation under RAP (on file             Comment No. 7: The right to adequate housing (Article 11.1) of
   at SERAC).                                                              the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights):




   Amnesty International August 2013       Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                           IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 61
                                                                                         FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




forced evictions, para 3, (Sixteenth session, 20 May 1997),             70 Interview with residents and officers of the Badia East Technical
E/1998/22, Annex IV, para 3.                                            Committee, Badia East, 16 May 2013; name withheld because of
                                                                        security concerns.
60 UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General
Comment No. 7                                                           71 Letter to Amnesty International from the Lagos state government,
                                                                        sent by the Lagos State Attorney General, dated 4 May 2013.
61 UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General
Comment No. 7, para 15.                                                 72 Sunrise programme, Badia: After the demolition, Channels
                                                                        Television, 2 March 2013, extracts available at
62 UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General
                                                                        http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wnBC3rrp5bA (part 1),
Comment No. 7, para 16.
                                                                        http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XsuHVyRmJ4I (part 2),
63 UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General        http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MfJHeCwLLdI (part3) (last
Comment 7, para 14.                                                     accessed 20 June 2013).
64 Amnesty International interview with the Lagos State Attorney        73 Digital Globe Analysis Center satellite imagery analysis ILU-ERI
General, Secretariat, Ikeja, Lagos, 15 May 2013.                        community/Lagos, Nigeria, 2013.
65 Amnesty International interview with the Lagos State Attorney        74 A Baale is the traditional head of a Yoruba community. The Baale
General, 15 May 2013.                                                   of Iganmu Alawo was appointed by the Ojora of Ijoraland, the
66 Letter to Amnesty International from the Lagos state                 traditional ruler of the area that includes Badia East.
government, sent by the Lagos State Attorney General, dated             75 Letter to Amnesty International from the Lagos state government,
4 May 2013, responding to Amnesty International’s                       sent by the Lagos State Attorney General, dated 4 May 2013,
correspondence raising concerns about the recent forced
                                                                        76 The Baale of Ijora Alawo claims he was appointed by the Ojora
eviction of people from Badia. In the interview with Amnesty
                                                                        of Ijoraland on 9 June 2012 as the traditional head of an area that
International on 15 May 2013, the Attorney General also
                                                                        includes Badia East. However, the affected people interviewed by
maintained that the area which was cleared was prone to
                                                                        the delegates rejected him as their Baale, claiming they had two
flooding and there was a risk that refuse could go into the
                                                                        Baales, one for the Ajeromi Community and another for Oke Ilu-Eri
drains when it rained and cause flooding in that and
                                                                        community. They said both Baales died recently.
surrounding areas. There were also sanitary concerns as
there was no provision of toilets. There were additional health         77 Amnesty International interview with the Baale and his Secretary,
and crime issues.                                                       Badia, 16 May 2013.
67 Amnesty International interview with the Lagos State Attorney        78 The person introduced himself as the Baale’s Secretary
General, 15 May 2013. In the letter to Amnesty International,           and stated that he was authorized to speak on behalf of the
dated 4 May 2013, the Lagos state government stated that                Baale. The Baale, who was present at the meeting, confirmed
“a State Government delegation visited twice to sensitise the           that he was happy with this arrangement and at the end also
people to the need to move away, especially in view of the              that he agreed with all the statements made by the Secretary
security, health and flooding risks posed to the entire area by         on his behalf.
their activities”.
                                                                        79 The Chairman of the Task Force also claimed that the Baale
68 Amnesty International interview with the Lagos State                 had a ‘town crier’ who went around Badia telling people that
Commissioner for Housing, Secretariat, Ikeja, Lagos, 17 May 2013.       they had received a notice. Amnesty International interview, Task
                                                                        Force office, Alausa Ikeja, 14 May 2013.
69 Interview with residents and officers of the Badia East `Technical
Committee, Badia East, 16 May 2013; name withheld because of            80 Interview, Badia East, and on the telephone, 16 May and 26 June
security concerns.                                                      2013; name withheld for security concerns.




                                                                                Index: AFR 44/006/2013        Amnesty International August 2013
62 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




   81 Interviews with residents and SERAC staff.                            94 Abeokuta is the capital of Ogun state, which borders Lagos state.
   82 Interview, Badia East, 15 May; name withheld for security             95 The Lagos state environmental sanitation exercise is mandatory
   concerns.                                                                for all Lagos state residents. It takes place on the last Saturday of
                                                                            every month and the movement of all persons is restricted between
   83 Meeting with Lagos State Commissioner for Housing, Alausa,
                                                                            7am and 10am.
   Ikeja, 22 February 2013. On the same day, SERAC also delivered a
   letter to the Governor of Lagos State expressing concerns over the       96 Interviews with residents, Badia East, 13, 15 and 16 May 2013.
   possibly threatened demolition in Badia East and asked for full
                                                                            97 Interview, Badia East, 16 May 2013.
   disclosure of the government’s plans, copying the Lagos State
   Commissioners for Agriculture, Physical Planning and Urban               98 Amnesty International interview with the Chairman of the Task
   Development and Environment, the Lagos State Attorney General,           Force, Alausa, Ikeja, 14 May 2013.
   the Task Force, the Kick Against Indiscipline Brigade, and senior        99 Amnesty International interview with the Chairman of the Task
   officials of the LMDGP. See SERAC letter to Governor of Lagos State,     Force, 14 May 2013.
   22 February 2013 (acknowledgment copies on file at SERAC,
                                                                            100 The Chairman of the Task Force confirmed that his agency
   available online at: http://www.scribd.com/doc/127150823/Letter-to-
                                                                            carried out the demolitions and that he and his staff were physically
   Governor-Fashola-on-Badia-East-Threatened-Demolition).
                                                                            present on the site. Amnesty International interview with the
   84 Interview, 15 May 2013.                                               Chairman of the Task Force, 14 May 2013.
   85 A Certificate of Occupancy is an evidence of a statutory right of     101 Interviews with residents, Badia East, 13, 15 and 15 May 2013.
   occupancy of land and it is issued by the Governor of a state in
                                                                            102 Interview, Badia East, 16 May 2013.
   Nigeria in accordance with the Land Use Act 1978.
                                                                            103 Interview, Badia East, 16 May 2013.
   86 Amnesty International interview with the Lagos State Attorney
   General, 15 May 2013.                                                    104 Phone interview conducted by Amnesty International with
                                                                            Andrew Maki, 20 June 2013.
   87 Agbodemu Musbau & others v. Lagos State Environmental
   Sanitation Enforcement Agency & others; Suit No: M/710/2011.             105 Amnesty International interview with the Chairman of the Lagos
   SERAC represented the applicants in this case.                           State Environmental and Special Offences Enforcement Unit,
                                                                            14 May 2013.
   88 Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General
   Comment 7, para 15(b).                                                   106 A Black Maria is a police vehicle used to transport suspects.
                                                                            It is commonly used in Nigeria by law enforcement agencies.
   89 The UN Special Rapporteur on adequate housing developed the
   Basic Principles and Guidelines on Development-based Evictions           107 Phone interview conducted by Amnesty International with
   and Displacement (the Basic Principles), which reflect existing          Andrew Maki, 20 June 2013.
   standards and jurisprudence on the issue of forced eviction. See UN      108 Phone interview conducted by Amnesty International with
   Doc. A/HRC/4/18 (Annex 1), 5 February 2007.                              Megan Chapman, 20 June 2013.
   90 Principle 41, the Basic Principles.                                   109 Phone interview conducted by Amnesty International with
   91 See Principle 42, the Basic Principles.                               Megan Chapman, 20 June 2013.
   92 See Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General        110 Interview, Badia East, 16 May 2013; name withheld for privacy
   Comment 7, paras 13 and 15(g).                                           and security concerns.
   93 A Black Maria is a police vehicle used to transport suspects. It is   111 Amnesty International interview with the Lagos State Attorney
   commonly used in Nigeria by law enforcement agencies.                    General, 15 May 2013.




   Amnesty International August 2013        Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                          IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 63
                                                                                        FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




112 Interview with residents and members of the Badia East             129 To compile this information, affected people (heads of
Technical Committee, Badia East, 16 May 2013.                          household, both landlords and tenants) completed a detailed
                                                                       questionnaire, provided a passport photograph and contact phone
113 The case, Prince J.A. Ilawole & others and the Governor of
                                                                       number, and signed/thumb-printed to verify the information.
Lagos State & others, Suit No: M/162/2013, was instituted on 28
                                                                       Landlords also provided the names of their tenants to cross-check
February 2013 in a Lagos High Court.
                                                                       against possible misrepresentation. SERAC staff reviewed carefully
114 Interview with members of the Badia East Techinical Committee,     for any duplicates or unreasonable financial claims; subsequently,
Badia East, 16 May 2013.                                               a 10-person committee made up of community members and
115 Amnesty International interview with the Lagos State Attorney      leaders from Oke Ilu-Eri and Ajeromi reviewed the compiled
General and Commissioner for Justice, 15 May 2013.                     database. Finally, the database was subjected to a SERAC-facilitated
                                                                       community verification exercise open to all affected persons and the
116 Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General
                                                                       remaining Ajeromi community.
Comment 7, para 16.
                                                                       130 Structures are buildings that were used as shops and/or homes.
117 Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General
                                                                       Many structures contained multiple households (family units) as
Comment 7, para 13.
                                                                       families often rented a room or rooms rather than the entire house.
118 Principle 61, UN Basic Principles and Guidelines on
                                                                       131 KAI Brigade is the Law Enforcement Unit of the Lagos State
Development-based Evictions and Displacement.
                                                                       Ministry of the Environment. It was established on 3 November 2003
119 Principle 60, UN Basic Principles and Guidelines on                by the then Governor of Lagos State. The Brigade was established to
Development-based Evictions and Displacement.                          enforce the Environmental Sanitation Law of Lagos State.
120 Interviews with residents, Badia East, 13, 15 and 16 May 2013.     132 Interview, Badia East, 15 May 2013.
121 Interviews with residents, Badia East, 13, 15 and 16 May 2013.     133 Interviews with residents, Badia East, 15 and 16 May 2013.
See chapter 4 for more details.
                                                                       134 Interview, Badia East, 16 May 2013.
122 Sunrise programme, Badia: After the demolition, Channels
                                                                       135 Interviews with residents, Badia East, 15 and 16 May 2013.
Television, 2 March 2013.
                                                                       136 Badia East, 16 May 2013. Names withheld to ensure privacy
123 Amnesty International interview with the Commissioner for
                                                                       and security.
Housing, 17 May 2013.
                                                                       137 Amnesty International was given a copy of her death certificate
124 The Commissioner said the project consists of 1-, 2- and 3-
                                                                       by family members.
bedroom units.
                                                                       138 Amnesty International was given a copy of her death certificate
125 Amnesty International interview with the Commissioner for
                                                                       by family members.
Housing, 17 May 2013.
                                                                       139 Principle 52, Basic Principles.
126 The Commissioner said the government is trying to keep the
interest to 10% or below but the scheme is yet to be finalized.        140 Interview, Badia East, 16 May 2013.

127 Letter to Amnesty International from the Lagos state government,   141 Interview, Badia East, 16 May 2013.
sent by the Lagos State Attorney General, dated 4 May 2013.            142 Interview, Badia East, 16 May 2013.
128 Meetings with the World Bank, Amnesty International (Abuja, 20     143 Interview, Badia East, 16 May 2013.
May 2013) and SERAC (Sheraton Hotel in Lagos, 7 May 2013; Sheraton
                                                                       144 Interviews with residents, Badia East, 15 and 16 May 2013.
Hotel in Lagos, 31 May 2013; Sheraton Hotel in Lagos, 7 June 2013).




                                                                               Index: AFR 44/006/2013        Amnesty International August 2013
64 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




   145 In her bench ruling, Justice Ipaye held that an “award of            World Bank Office in Abuja, 28 February 2013; LMDGP office in
   damages would sufficiently compensate them [the Applicants/Badia         Lagos, 15 March 2013; Sheraton Hotel in Lagos, 7 May 2013;
   East evictees] for any losses they have suffered”, thereby not taking    Sheraton Hotel in Lagos, 31 May 2013; Sheraton Hotel in Lagos,
   into consideration the Lagos state government’s stated plans for         7 June 2013.
   further demolitions. The Ruling on Motion for Interlocutory Injunction
                                                                            155 World Bank, Resettlement policy framework, Vol. 1, Nigeria –
   is on file with SERAC.
                                                                            Lagos Metropolitan Development Project: resettlement plan, section
   146 The case, Prince J.A. Ilawole & others and the Governor of Lagos     5.2, p.11, available at http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/
   State & others, was instituted in a Lagos State High Court.              en/2005/05/6059098/nigeria-lagos-metropolitan-development-
                                                                            project-resettlement-plan-vol-1-3-resettlement-policy-framework
   147 SERAC meeting with Executive Secretary, National Human
                                                                            (last accessed 25 June 2013).
   Rights Commission (Abuja, 5 March 2013); SERAC petition to
   National Human Rights Commission, “Urgent Petition, RE: Mass             156 World Bank, Resettlement policy framework, Vol. 1, section 9.5,
   Forced Eviction in Badia East, Lagos”, 5 March 2013 (available           pp.23-25.
   online at: http://www.scribd.com/doc/139687618/Petition-to-NHRC-
                                                                            157 World Bank, Resettlement policy framework, Vol. 1, section 4, p.8.
   Regarding-Badia-East-Forced-Eviction-Mar-5-2013).
                                                                            158 See Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General
   148 SERAC and Badia East community meeting with Director, Urban
                                                                            Comments 4 and 7; and Principle 68 and Section V, Basic Principles.
   and Regional Development, Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban
   Development (Abuja, 28 June 2013).                                       159 Letter from the World Bank Nigeria Office Director to Amnesty
                                                                            International, dated 28 June 2013.
   149 Interview, Badia East, 15 May 2013.
                                                                            160 Notice of Invitation to Stakeholders’ Meeting, Lagos State
   150 Letter to Amnesty International from the Lagos state government,
                                                                            Government Technical Committee on Badia East (on file with SERAC).
   sent by the Lagos State Attorney General, dated 4 May 2013.
                                                                            161 The Lagos State Government Technical Committee on Badia East
   151 Article 2, International Covenant on Economic, Social and
                                                                            was established in April/May 2013 to devise the Lagos state
   Cultural Rights, article 2 (3), International Covenant on Civil and
                                                                            government’s response to demands for compensation, relocation,
   Political Rights, and article 1, African Charter on Human and
                                                                            and other forms of remedy by those affected by the forced eviction of
   Peoples’ Rights. The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural
                                                                            23 February 2013.
   Rights has stated that “the Covenant norms must be recognized
   in appropriate ways within the domestic legal order, appropriate         162 The “stakeholders’ meeting” was attended by six SERAC staff.
   means of redress, or remedies, must be available to any aggrieved        163 Amnesty International interview with the Baale and his Secretary,
   individual or group, and appropriate means of ensuring                   Badia, 16 May 2013.
   governmental accountability must be put in place”. See Committee
                                                                            164 Letter from the World Bank Nigeria Office Director to Amnesty
   on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General Comment 9: The
                                                                            International, dated 28 June 2013.
   domestic application of the Covenant, UN Doc. E/C.12/1998/24, 1
   December 1998, para 2.                                                   165 Letter from the World Bank Nigeria Office Director to Amnesty
                                                                            International, dated 28 June 2013.
   152 Principle 59, the Basic Principles.
                                                                            166 Principle 60, Basic Principles.
   153 Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General
   Comment 4: The Right to Adequate Housing, UN Doc. E/1992/23              167 Principle 43, Basic Principles.
   (annex III), para 8.                                                     168 Principle 64, Basic Principles.
   154 Amnesty International interview with the World Bank Nigeria          169 For more guidance on these international standards, see
   Office, Abuja, 20 May 2013, SERAC meetings with the World Bank,          Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General




   Amnesty International August 2013         Index: AFR 44/006/2013
                                                                                                         IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT! 65
                                                                                       FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




Comments 4 and 7 and Principle 68, and Section V, Basic                enforcement of fundamental rights as a result of the December 2010
Principles. See also Amnesty International, Know your obligations:     forced eviction in Makoko. The case is presently before the High
A guide to preventing forced evictions, Index: ACT 35/009/2012,        Court of Lagos State. Babarinde Babatunde & Ors. v. Lagos State
27 November 2012, available at: http://www.amnesty.org/en/library/     Env’l and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit & Ors., Suit No.
info/ACT35/009/2012.                                                   M/198/2012.
170 Principle 52, Basic Principles.                                    176 A list of 770 households (comprising 4,034 people) affected by
                                                                       the demolition was compiled by the Secretary to the Makoko/Iwaya
171 See chapter 3.
                                                                       Waterfront Community in December 2012 (on file with SERAC).
172 “Makoko under siege”, SERAC@Work (November 2005) pp.1-3;
                                                                       177 SERAC initiated litigation against the Lagos state government
SERAC initiated litigation against the Lagos state government for
                                                                       for enforcement of fundamental rights as a result of the July 2012
enforcement of fundamental rights as a result of the 2005 forced
                                                                       forced eviction in Makoko. Francis Agoyon & Ors. v. Lagos State
eviction in Makoko. The case is presently before the Court of
                                                                       Government & Ors., Suit No. FHC/L/CS/1577/2012.
Appeals. Ajimuda & Ors. v. Lagos State Government & Ors, Appeal
No. CA/L/637m/2009. Amnesty International, Nigeria: Making the         178 SERAC Internal Report, “Post-demolition fact finding visit to
destitute homeless – forced evictions in Makoko, Lagos state, Index    Odo-Iragunshi, Lagos State” (March 9, 2013) (on file with SERAC);
AFR 44/001/2006.                                                       Interviews with affected residents of Odo-Iragunshi on the site of
                                                                       the demolition on 9 March 2013 and at SERAC on 25 May 2013.
173 SERAC’s ongoing monitoring of situation and legal representation
of affected persons.                                                   179 Amnesty International interview with the Chairman of the
                                                                       Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences Enforcement Unit,
174 SERAC, “The Illegal Demolition of Makoko Community: The
                                                                       14 May 2013.
Lawlessness, Indiscipline, Impunity and Brutality of the KICK
AGAINST INDISCIPLINE (KAI Brigade)”, SERAC Press Release,              180 “Bloodbath in Makoko”, SERAC@Work (September-December
11 May 2010, available at http://www.serac.org/Pages.asp?id=293.       2010) pp.24-25.
175 SERAC monitored this eviction. See in this regard: “Bloodbath      181 Eyewitness accounts given to SERAC on 21 July 2012 at Panti
in Makoko”, SERAC@Work (September-December 2010) pp.24-25;             Police Station; certified true copy of autopsy report for Timothy
SERAC initiated litigation against the Lagos state government for      Azinkpono Hunkpoyanwa (on file with SERAC).




                                                                               Index: AFR 44/006/2013       Amnesty International August 2013
66 IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
   FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE, NIGERIA




   Amnesty International August 2013     Index: AFR 44/006/2013
          WHETHER IN A HIGH-PROFILE CONFLICT
          OR A FORGOTTEN CORNER OF THE
          GLOBE, AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL
          CAMPAIGNS FOR JUSTICE, FREEDOM
          AND DIGNITY FOR ALL AND SEEKS TO
          GALVANIZE PUBLIC SUPPORT TO BUILD
          A BETTER WORLD

          WHAT CAN YOU DO?
          Activists around the world have shown that it is possible to resist
          the dangerous forces that are undermining human rights. Be part
          of this movement. Combat those who peddle fear and hate.
           Join Amnesty International and become part of a worldwide
          movement campaigning for an end to human rights violations.
          Help us make a difference.
          Make a donation to support Amnesty International’s work.

          Together we can make our voices heard.

               I am interested in receiving further information on becoming a member of Amnesty
               International

            name

            address

            country

            email




               I wish to make a donation to Amnesty International (donations will be taken in UK£, US$ or €)


           amount

           please debit my              Visa                 Mastercard
                                                                                                               amnesty.org


           number

           expiry date



 I WANT    signature

           Please return this form to the Amnesty International ofﬁce in your country.




TO HELP
           For Amnesty International ofﬁces worldwide: www.amnesty.org/en/worldwide-sites
           If there is not an Amnesty International ofﬁce in your country, please return this form to:

           Amnesty International, International Secretariat, Peter Benenson House,
           1 Easton Street, London WC1X 0DW, United Kingdom
                         IF YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, MOVE OUT!
                         FORCED EVICTION IN BADIA EAST, LAGOS STATE,
                         NIGERIA

                         At 7.30am on Saturday, 23 February 2013, bulldozers and police arrived
                         at the informal settlement of Badia East in Lagos state, Nigeria, and
                         began demolishing homes, businesses and community facilities. At least
                         266 structures that served as homes and businesses were completely
                         wiped out, affecting an estimated 2,237 households. At a minimum,
                         close to 9,000 people were affected. Residents maintain they were given
                         no notice of the eviction.

                         Nearly six months on, many people are still sleeping out in the open or
                         under a nearby bridge. Others have erected makeshift shelters
                         wherever they could find space. Some former residents are living with
                         friends or families in homes that are already overcrowded. There has
                         been no government support following the loss of their homes and
                         livelihoods, and the overwhelming majority are unable to rent or obtain
                         alternative housing.


                         Large-scale evictions and demolitions have devastated the lives of
                         thousands of people in Nigeria in recent years. The authorities have
                         usually failed to compensate them and provide them with alternative
                         housing. This joint report by Amnesty International and the Nigeria-
                         based Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC) documents the
                         events leading up to and after the eviction of residents of Badia East by
                         the Lagos state government. It also forms part of the programme of
                         work with communities, activists and local authorities to end forced
                         evictions in Nigeria and worldwide.




amnesty.org
Index: AFR 44/006/2013
August 2013
                            February 27, 2013

                            Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
                            Country Director, Nigeria
                            102 Yakubu Gowon Crescent
                            Opposite ECOWAS Secretariat
                            P.O. Box 2826, Garki
                            Abuja
                            Nigeria
             Plot 758
                            Dear Mrs. Marie-Nelly:
Chief Thomas Adeboye
               Drive
                            MASS FORCED EVICTION OF INTENDED BENEFICIARIES OF “SLUM
       Omole Phase 2        UPGRADE” ACTIVITIES UNDER WORLD BANK-FUNDED PROJECT IN
                            LAGOS; CLEAR VIOLATIONS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONAL POLICIES
                Isheri
                            I write urgently regarding an ongoing demolition of the Badia East community in the
                Lagos
                            Apapa-Iganmu Local Government Area of Lagos State. The Social and Economic Rights
               Postal       Action Center (SERAC) stands as Counsel of record to members of the community. We
                            have been instructed to report the Lagos State Government’s repeated failure to abide by
      P.O. Box 13616        the World Bank Safeguard Policies and the specific Resettlement Policy Framework that
                            forms part of its agreement with the World Bank for the $200m Lagos Metropolitan
          Ikeja-Lagos
                            Development and Governance Project (LMDGP). Badia is one of nine communities
              Nigeria       selected for “urban upgrading” activities under the LMDGP. Sadly, while accepting World
                            Bank funding for such activities, the Lagos State Government continues to forcefully evict
  Tel: 234.1.764.4299       the very slum residents who are the Project’s intended beneficiaries.
       info@serac.org
                            On Saturday, February 23, 2013, the Lagos State Government began a massive demolition
       www.serac.org        exercise on the Oke-Ilu-Eri area and neighboring portions of the Badia East community.
                            None of the residents whose homes have been demolished – numbering in the thousands
                            thus far – received prior notice of the demolition. For further details, please find attached a
                            press release SERAC issued the day after the demolition began, including eyewitness
                            reports, and several news articles published in recent days.

                            This demolition follows on similar unlawful and unnecessary forced evictions of residents
                            in Badia and other host communities to “urban upgrading” activities under the LMDGP.
                            In March 2012, over 300 houses in Badia were set ablaze by the Lagos State Kick against
                            Indiscipline (KAI) Brigade or otherwise demolished without notice to make way for the
                            construction of a drainage canal built under the Project. The LMDGP has only just paid
                            compensation to residents displaced by the KAI Brigade.

                            From July 16-21, 2012, the Lagos State Government carried out another massive
                            demolition of houses built on water in Makoko and Iwaya, two other slum communities
                            meant to benefit from “urban upgrading” activities under the LMDGP. Thousands of
                            residents were left homeless and further impoverished in a violent demolition exercise in
                            which police killed one man, arrested twelve unarmed residents, and injured numerous
                            others. In April and December 2010, the Lagos State Government carried out two forced
                            evictions in other portions of Makoko. In all instances, notice was grossly inadequate and
                            there was no prior consultation with affected persons. No compensation or alternative
                            accommodation whatsoever has been provided.


           social and economic rights action center ƔVRFLDODQGHFRQRPLFULJKWVDFWLRQFHQWHUƔsocial and economic rights action center
From all of the above, it is clear that the Lagos State Government has absolutely no intention of
carrying out good faith “urban upgrading” for the benefit of slum residents as envisioned in the
LMDGP. The mass forced evictions described above not only constitute grave violations of
international law, they are also clear contraventions of the Resettlement Policy Framework that the
Lagos State Government committed itself to for purposes of obtaining World Bank funding. This
framework, in line with the World Bank’s Operational Policy 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement,
mandates the Lagos State Government to avoid and minimize involuntary resettlement of project-
affected persons. When absolutely unavoidable, involuntary resettlement should proceed only with
important safeguards, including prior notice and consultation, provision of compensation and
resettlement, and availability of grievance mechanisms for those affected.

The Lagos State Government’s repeated violations of the LMDGP Resettlement Policy Framework
and Operational Policy 4.12 are of grave concern to SERAC and to me as a personal matter. I
personally served on the Project Steering Committee for the LMDGP for over five years until, in July
2012, I resigned from the Steering Committee in protest over the ongoing demolition of the Makoko /
Iwaya waterfront communities by the Lagos State Government. Please find attached a copy of my
resignation letter, which was sent to the World Bank at that time.

Please note that a team of SERAC staff will be in Abuja from February 28 – March 4, 2013 and would
very much appreciate an opportunity to meet with members of the World Bank’s Nigeria Country
Office to discuss these concerns. To arrange a meeting, please communicate with Megan Chapman at
megan.c@serac.org or 08169845410.

Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this urgent matter.

Yours sincerely,




Felix Morka, Esq.
Executive Director

Cc:      Indira Konjhodzic
         1818 H Street NW
         Washington DC 20433
         USA




social and economic rights action center ƔVRFLDODQGHFRQRPLFULJKWVDFWLRQFHQWHUƔsocial and economic rights action center
    .. ·-
                 ....

-       .-   --
    . .---
                        .~·
        ....
           .
    •   •   ..                -   4       •




                                      :

                          ~-
                          '
                             

                             ":		


                             "3*&3"/$0*4&"3*&&--:
                             06/53:*3&$503*(&3*"
                             	!",6#6080/3&4$&/5
                             1104*5& &$3&5"3*"5
                             09		"3,*
                             #6+"
                             *(&3*"
             Plot 758        
                             &"34"3*&&--:
Chief Thomas Adeboye
               Drive         		


		
		
       Omole Phase 2         83*5&*/3&'&3&/$&5006313&7*064$0..6/*$"5*0/%"5&%&#36"3:		
3&("3%*/(5)&&#36"3:	
	

                             ."44 '03$&% &7*$5*0/ 0' */5&/%&% #&/&'*$*"3*&4 0' 5)& "(04 5"5& &53010-*5"/ &7&-01.&/5 "/%
                Isheri       07&3/"/$& 30+&$5  */ 5)& "%*" $0..6/*5: )& 0$*"- "/% $0/0.*$ *()54 $5*0/ &/5&3
                             45"/%4"406/4&-0'3&$03%50.&.#&340'5)&$0..6/*5:*/0/(0*/(-*5*("5*0/"("*/455)&"(04
                Lagos        5"5&07&3/.&/507&35)&'03$&%&7*$5*0/4"48&--"4'03163104&40'$0..6/*$"5*0/8*5)5)& 03-%"/,
               Postal        63$-*&/54"3&$0/$&3/&%#:5)&-"$,0'$0/$3&5&"$5*0/*/3&410/4&50063-"45-&55&3&41*5&4&7&3"-7*4*54
                             #: 5)& 03-% "/, 50 5)& %&.0-*4)&% "3&" "--08*/( )*()-&7&- 45"'' 50 8*5/&44 5)& 5&33*#-& $0/%*5*0/4 */
      P.O. Box 13616         8)*$) &7*$5&&4 "3& 45*-- -*7*/( 5)04& "''&$5&% )"7& :&5 50 4&& "/: &.&3(&/$: 3&-*&' $0.1&/4"5*0/ 03
                             5&.103"3: 03 -0/(5&3. 3&4&55-&.&/5 )&: "3& .045 $&35"*/-: /05 */ " 104*5*0/ "5 -&"45 &26"- 50 5)"5
          Ikeja-Lagos        13&$&%*/(5)&*3'03$&%&7*$5*0/
              Nigeria        5 5)& 4".& 5*.& 5)& "(04 5"5& 07&3/.&/5 )"4 5",&/ " -&("- 104*5*0/ 5)"5 5)& '03$&% &7*$5*0/4 8&3&
                             $"33*&% 065 13&$*4&-: #&$"64& "%*" "45 )"% #&&/ 5"3(&5&% '03 4-6. 3&(&/&3"5*0/ 6/%&3 5)& 03-% "/,
  Tel: 234.1.764.4299        '6/%&%55"$)&%1-&"4&'*/%4&7&3"--&("-130$&44&4'*-&%#:5)&"(045"5&07&3/.&/58*5)5)&
                             3&-&7"/51035*0/4)*()-*()5&%
       info@serac.org
                             We find it difficult to reconcile these two realities. Despite the reported “commitments” by Lagos State
       www.serac.org         07&3/.&/5 8&'&"35)"55)&5*.& )"4/&"3-:1"44&% '03"'5&35)&fact compliance with the World Bank’s
                             1&3"5*0/"-0-*$*&4"/%05)&310-*$:%0$6.&/545)"5 '03."/*/5&(3"-1"350'*54-&("-"(3&&.&/5 8*5)5)&
                            "(045"5&07&3/.&/5

                             )64.*/%'6-5)"55)&*4%6&50$-04&*/4&7&3"-4)035.0/5)48&)"7&*/4536$5*0/4'30.063$-*&/54
                             50$0..6/*$"5&50:06063*/5&/5*0/450'*-&"//41&$5*0/"/&-&26&45*'$0/$3&5&"/%5"/(*#-&130(3&44*4
                             /05."%&*/7&3:4)03503%&3

                             / )01&4 0' " -&44 $0/5&/5*064 40-65*0/  5",& 5)*4 0110356/*5: 50 */'03. :06 5)"5  *4 $633&/5-:
                             6/%&35",*/(50$3044$)&$,"/%7&3*':"$0.13&)&/4*7&-*4513&1"3&%#:063$-*&/540'1&340/4"''&$5&%#:5)&
                             &#36"3:	
	
%&.0-*5*0/"/%5)&".06/50'5)&*3-044&4 &8*--53"/4.*55)&4".&50:06"4400/ "4
                             5)& 7&3*'*$"5*0/ &9&3$*4& *4 $0.1-&5& "/% 5)& -*45 '*/"-*;&% 8*5) +0*/5 "11307"- '30. 5)& $0..6/*5: "/%
                             

                             )"/,:06*/"%7"/$&'03:063130.15"55&/5*0/505)*463(&/5."55&3

                             !06344*/$&3&-:




                                                                   
                             
                             &-*903,"42
                             9&$65*7&*3&$503


           social and economic rights action center ● social and economic rights action center ● social and economic rights action center
-"+   $22$0%0.,2..0+# -*$!03 07		
        ("230$1.%/.12#$,.+(2(.-+(4(-&".-#(2(.-1.% #(  12$4("2$$1
        ("230$1.%.0+# -*%3-#$#/0.)$"21(- #(  12
        $+$4 -2/.02(.-1.%+$& +/0."$11$1%(+$#!72'$ &.12 2$.4$0-,$-2

"    -#(0 .-)'.#8("
        20$$2
         1'(-&2.-
		

        6$"32(4$.,,(22$$ #(  12.,,3-(27
        .0+!$02+.03-5 $"0$2 07
        / / & -,3
         &.12 2$(&$0( 

9/30/13                                  Gmail - Final Database of Affected Households & Destroyed Properties at Badia East




                                                                                           Megan Chapman <mschapman@gmail.com>



  Final Database of Affected Households & Destroyed Properties at Badia East
  Megan Chapman <megan.c@serac.org>                                               Tue, Jun 18, 2013 at 3:50 AM
  To: sarnaout@worldbank.org, "csage@worldbank.org" <csage@worldbank.org>
  Cc: Mmarienelly@worldbank.org, "Felix C. Morka" <seracnig@aol.com>, Anie Ewang <Anie@serac.org>, Ani Ewang
  <aniewang@ymail.com>, "Andrew W. Maki" <andrew.m@serac.org>, "Dinma.N" <Dinma.N@serac.org>

     Dear Sateh and Caroline,

     I hope this finds you both well and my apologies for the delayed follow-up. Following on our meeting of Friday
     before last, please find attached the final database of affected households and destroyed properties from the
     February 23, 2013 demolition. Please use this version instead of the paper version that was provided to you
     before, which upon further review actually had a number of errors and omissions that are now corrected.

     A few notes: First, this list identifies all the landlords/structure owners along with most of their tenants. While, of
     course, the team working to compile the list tried to be as comprehensive as possible, there are places where
     information was not available and these places are indicated in the document (i.e. that a particular landlord had
     tenants but we have not been able to identify them).

     Second, in the end we have only included claims for lost/damaged/destroyed movable property and the value of
     the structure destroyed. Not included here are lost income, injuries/health consequences, damages for periods of
     homelessness or periods of time children have been out of school, etc. These harms should be taken into
     account in any final compensation scheme.

     Additionally, and most importantly, you mentioned that the December 2012 RAP would most likely be the basis
     for compensation for those affected by the February 23 demolition. We want to make clear that the two situations
     are fundamentally different from one another. In the course of Shola's consultations for the prior RAP, people
     were told they were receiving "replacement value" for their structures so they could rebuild on the same site
     where their structure was previously standing. For this reason, the amounts received were very low, i.e. the cost
     of building materials.

     From our previous discussions and the situation on ground, it seems that those forcefully evicted on February 23
     will not be resettled and do not have the option of rebuilding their previously existing structures in situ.
     Accordingly, compensation under the new RAP must be sufficient to ensure that affected persons are
     realistically able to replace what they lost, most importantly securing a comparable (in terms of size, location and
     proximity to social infrastructure/work/livelihood) piece of land on which to build.

     That said, our clients' first demand remains either resettlement or return of the land that was unlawfully and
     forcefully seized to allow them to rebuild on site. This would be in line with the World Bank's own resettlement
     policies and Lagos State's own obligations under the Project Agreement. If only compensation is offered, it must
     be adequate and sufficient to ensure that they are in a position at least equal to that prior to the February 23
     forced eviction.

     If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us or the community members identified in
     the covering sheet. Secondly, please confirm that this list will be provided to Shola to assist in his work
     on the RAP, as previously discussed.

     Many thanks,
     Megan
     --




https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?ui=2&ik=dd11adf7b9&view=pt&q=sateh&qs=true&search=query&msg=13f567a6e1e393dd                 1/2
9/30/13                                        Gmail - Final Database of Affected Households & Destroyed Properties at Badia East



     Megan S. Chapman
     Staff Attorney
     Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC)
     Plot 758
     Chief Thomas Adeboye Drive
     Omole Phase II
     Isheri
     Lagos Nigeria
     234.1.764.6299/telephone
     e-mail: megan.c@serac.org
              info@serac.org
     website: www.serac.org

     http://www.facebook.com/SocialandEconomicRightsActionCenter
     http://twitter.com/serac_ng
     http://flickr.com/photos/serac_ng
     http://www.youtube.com/seracnig

     ..........................................................................................................................

     DISCLAIMER

     This message, attachments and response thread contains information from the Social and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC), Plot 758, Chief
     Thomas Adeboye Drive, Omole Phase II, Isheri, Lagos, Nigeria. Information contained therein is exclusively for the use of the addressee(s). If you
     have received this message in error, please contact the sender immediately and destroy the message. Please, be notified that unauthorized copying,
     publication or any other form of dissemination of this email and its contents is prohibited.




            Database of Affected Households & Destroyed Properties at Badia East Feb 23 2013.pdf
            3603K




https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?ui=2&ik=dd11adf7b9&view=pt&q=sateh&qs=true&search=query&msg=13f567a6e1e393dd                                            2/2
                                            CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICITY

         We, the undersigned members of Badia East community represent the committee selected to write for and
         on behalf of the entire Badia-East community and confirm the validity of the attached database. The
         database includes the names of both landlords and tenants in Ajerom1 and Oke-llu-Eriand the financial
         estimates of lost structures and properties affected by the February 23, 2013 demohllons and forced
         evictions in A1eromi and Oke-llu Eri, Badia-East

         The committee compiling this database comprises

            1.  Albert Olorunwa                   08091803661or08075345145
            2.  Com Bayo Egbayelo                 07032376116
            3.  Com Sunday Ogunyemi               08033611062
            4.  Alh Ganiyu A B Fata1              08180962466
            5.  Mr Monday Daniel                  08173863012

-            6. Mr Tomola Ayomike

         Dated· June 14, 2013
                                                  08090620925



         For any enquines on the hst, kindly contact Albert Olorunwa (08091803661 or 08075345145) for A1eromi;
         and Alhaj1 Ganiyu A.B. Fatai (08180962466) for Oke-llu Eri


         •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••


         This database is further verified by the ten-person committee representing Badia East.



-·
                 Chief. R. Araba Egbayelo                                          Prince. J. A. llawole
                 Chairman                                                          Vice Chairman




                 Albert Olorunwa
                 Secretary




                                                     For Badia East Community
     .
     .



.
	



                                                                    
"%&"%&$"(&$'&'$%
                             $%$!
                                         
                            %%%
                                         
                                                                 548*<5:*658,33
                                                              
"%&"%&$"(- $"#$&%
	
                   #
                                         
                           !%" 
                                        	

              !"##

                  !"%!
                      "!!"#
                                        	

                  % "$$"!
                                                         4*3::*389*638,33
                                                          

-0 4*5<5*<;6*963,33

                                           		             		
' $"&	"'%"%/
	
                              !
                                     %
                                                                            57:

                              !!
                                    "!
                                                                           4<<3
    		/
 /+"$ "'%"%)%$!$" 7.;#"#                           556:

' $"&$'&'$%%&$"(
                                                                #
                                                             %"
                                             599
                                      		
			

                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                       
                                                      35**

3    	

	                

          2:24586757;   -6!"%.    8*722*222+22 ;22*222+22 9*622*222+22
     +

                 3**
     2:245:;:292
4    -&&'%("$&!$"#$&).             
*
         292793347;9   -6"%.     6*722*222+22 :37*222+22 7*537*222+22
     +

                 5**
     2:245:;:292
4   -&&'%("$&!$"#$&).             
*
         292793347;9   -4"%.     4*422*222+22 722*222+22 4*922*222+22
                                                      93*		*
      2:27677:9:4   ,
5    +                              
*
         2:245:;:292   -4"%.           4*322*222+22 938*222+22 4*:38*222+22
                                                      :**

6                                
*
         2:245498399   -3"%.                                               5*652*222+22 6*952*222+22
                                                                                                                   3*522*222+22 
                                                      97*		*

7                                  
*
         2:24885;627   -4"%.    4*422*222+22 722*222+22 4*922*222+22
                                                      98*		*
                    ,
8    +
                            
*
         2:2554:27:;   -4"%.           4*;22*222+22 822*222+22 5*722*222+22
     
                                  95*		*

9    -& !$"/%$"#$&).               
*
         2:2:2992226   -3"%.    722*222+22 922*222+22 3*422*222+22
     	
	
                                  32*

*

:    -&$%+"$*++
("'!/%$"#$&).   
*
         2:245729427   -3"%.    :22*222+22 822*222+22 3*622*222+22
                                                      33**

;    


                                 
*
         29278467355   -3"%.     822*222+22 63:*722+22 3*23:*722+22
                                                      6*

*

32   
                                 
*
         2:25537;98;   -3"%.    :42*722+22 472*222+22 3*292*722+22
                                                      9**

33                                   
*
+        2:245865386   -3"%.    3*722*222+22 622*222+22 3*;22*222+22
                                                      :*

*
*
34   
	
                                  
*
         29285874;39   -3"%.     722*222+22 59:*222+22 :9:*222+22
                                                      6**

35                                    
*
         2:258328863   -3"%.    3*922*222+22 ;65*222+22 4*865*222+22
                                                      68*		*

36                                       
*
         29254598338   -4"%.                                              3*335*222+22 6*535*222+22
                                                                                                                   5*422*222+22 
                                                      34**

37   	
                                  
*
         2:245;29:76   -3"%.   :22*222+22 842*222+22 3*642*222+22
                                                      39**

38   
                                 
*
         2:345852:48   -3"%.    3*422*222+22 672*222+22 3*872*222+22
                                                      7*
*

39   

                                
*
         2:293658838   -3"%.    :22*222+22 822*222+22 3*622*222+22
                           21)		)

29   +%!& -$#!"#%(,   
)
        1913475646:   +2!$,     2)311)111*11 611)111*11 2)811)111*11
                                          51)		)

2:                      
)
        19176444986   +2!$,     2)311)111*11 659):11*11 2)859):11*11
                                          53)		)

31                         
)
        19176695:8:   +2!$,     2)311)111*11 :61)611*11 3)261)611*11
                                          57)		)

32                          
)
        1919396541:   +2!$,                                               2)611)111*11 3)811)111*11
                                                                                                       2)311)111*11 
                                          68))

33   
	                       
)
        19234741935   +2!$,      2)311)111*11 469)111*11 2)669)111*11
     *             77))

34   +
	-,    
)
        18191538642   +2!$,      2)311)111*11 281)111*11 2)481)111*11
                                          25))

35   

                      
)
        1913:7874:3   +!$,      511)111*11 396)611*11 796)611*11
                                          5)
)
     191398519:6
36   	*


          
)
        19247181956   +!$,      2)111)111*11 911)111*11 2)911)111*11
     
	                 34))

37   +%&#!%( #!-$#!"#%,   
)
        19147199:26   +2!$,     2)611)111*11 471)111*11 2)971)111*11
                                          2)
.3)
                                          

)

38   	


                  
)
        19144957776   +3!$,                                               2)611)111*11 5)811)111*11
                                                                                                       4)311)111*11 
                                          29))

39   

                   
)
        191483859:6   +2!$,   :41)811*11 4:5)111*11 2)435)811*11
                                          33)		)

3:   
                      
)
        19134228675   +2!$,                                                2)221)111*11 4)321)111*11
                                                                                                       3)211)111*11 
                                          8)

)

41   

                      
)
        1928715381:   +2!$,     961)111*11 95:)811*11 2)7::)811*11
                                          3))

42   

**                   
)
        192514:52:4   +2!$,      2)411)111*11 776)111*11 2):76)111*11
                                          27))

43   
                  
)
        19138811:48   +2!$,      2)311)111*11 647)111*11 2)847)111*11
                                          29)		)

44                     
)
        191451795369 +3!$,                                                2)256)111*11 6)456)111*11
                                                                                                       5)311)111*11 
                                          25))

45   

                      
)
        19176695:8:   +2!$,                                                 2)221)111*11 3)1:1)111*11
                                                                                                       :91)111*11 
                                          51)
)

46   
                       
)
        1814:32:585   +2!$,     711)111*11 :61)111*11 2)661)111*11
                                          25))

47   	
                     
)
        18171581969   +2!$,      2)611)111*11 :61)111*11 3)561)111*11
                                          27))

48                          
)
        1918691:7:1   +2!$,     611)111*11 286)111*11 786)111*11
                                31))

49   +%!(!'!#% -$#!"#%,      
)
        19178:49423   +2!$,      2)111)111*11 4:9)111*11 2)4:9)111*11
                                              

#

-3   


                         
#
         *2*//.-3-*-   %+ &   22*#3**$** .+,#***$** +#,3,#3**$**
                                              +0##

.*   
                         
#
         *2+*+*.+*03   %+ &   3/*#***$** -,3#***$** +#,13#***$**
                                              -3#
#

.+   

                           
#
         *2*/..1..21   %+ &                                             +#,**#***$** ,#/**#***$**
                                                                                                          +#-**#***$** 
     
                            +,#

#
     *2*1,1++..+
.,   %!!"' !"&         
#
         *2*2222,33,   %+ &                                             +#+**#***$** ,#-**#***$**
                                                                                                          +#,**#***$** 
                                              +,#

#

.-   
                          
#
         *2*1-/-.+1+   %+ &   2**#***$** /**#***$** +#-**#***$**
                                              +2#		#

..   
                 
#
         *2+-*+1,022   %+ &                                              +#*/,#***$** -#,/,#***$**
                                                                                                          ,#,**#***$** 
                                              1#
#

./   

                          
                     *2+-*,,.3-.   %+ &   2**#3**$** .,.#/**$** +#,,/#.**$**
                                              -##

.0   	                            
#
         *2*12,+-/3*   %+ &                                              +#***#***$** ,#+**#***$**
                                                                                                          +#+**#***$** 
                                              -0#

#

.1   	                          
#
         *2+,,+/++,.   %+ &   //*#***$** ,1*#***$** 2,*#***$**
                                              1-##

.2                           
#
         *1*-113-3+*   %+ &                                               +#+**#***$** +#2**#***$**
                                                                                                          1**#***$** 
                                              +1##

.3   $


                   
#
         *2*,2002/*0   %+ &                                               +#-0*#***$** ,#-/*#***$**
                                                                                                          33*#***$** 
                                              ,1##

/*   

                            
#
         *2*-.-**3/-   %+ &   +#+**#***$** --,#***$** +#.-,#***$**
                                              32##

/+   

                        
#
         *2+00*,0+1.   %+ &                                              +#-2.#***$** ,#-0.#***$**
                                                                                                          32*#***$** 
                                              33##

/,   


                
#
         *2+00*,0+1.   %+ &   +#***#***$** ./2#-**$** +#./2#-**$**
                                              ++##

/-   $                     
#
         *2-3*3,.1+    %+ &   /1*#3**$** ,/2#/**$** 2,3#.**$**
                                              ,3#
#

/.   	


                     
#
         *2*0.,32..+   %+ &   +#2**#***$** ++/#/**$** +#3+/#/**$**
                                              2-#
#

//   

                       
#
         *1*/+*/,..,   %+ &   3**#***$** .3.#0**$** +#-3.#0**$**
                                              2/#
#

/0   

                           
#
         *2*1//-/--,   %+ &   2**#***$** ./1#0**$** +#,/1#0**$**
                                              -1#
#

/1   
                    
#
          *2*00/*+13+   %+ &    +#2**#***$** 03+#/**$** ,#.3+#/**$**
                                              +1##

/2   

                            
#
          *2+-,1202*3   %+ &   //*#***$** /**#***$** +#*/*#***$**
                             +**#
#

/3   %


	
'&   
#
        *1*/3-21-+2   %+ &   1-*#***$** 0**#***$** +#--*#***$**
     
                  +$		
                  
*$   !   

                         &            &&$$$$$$$ *),+$$$$ &,),+$$$$
                                   ,+


*%   
               

           $,%&&%)&+)*   %     -))$$$$$ '%(,$$$$ %&*-,$$$$
                                   ,-

*&   
             

           $,%,,,%*'$&   %     +-$$$$$$ ')+-$$$$ %%(+-$$$$

                                   ,,


*'   

             

          $+$*),('(&*   %                                                %($$$$$$$ '%$$$$$$$
                                                                                                 %+$$$$$$$ 
                                   &)


*(   
                  

           $,%*-()+'(,   %      %&$$$$$$$ ++$$$$$$ %-+$$$$$$
                                   &*


*)   	

       

          $,$*(&-)((%   %     %')$$$$$$ ',$$$$$$ %+'$$$$$$
                                   +,


**   
                

           $,$)&(($%++   %     %%$$$$$$$ *,$$$$$$ %+,$$$$$$
                                   '&		

*+   



             

           $,$)',%(&$+   %     ()-$$$$$ %)$'$$$$ *$-'$$$$
                                   ,&


*,   	


            

          $,$**,)&+-'   %     +)$$$$$$ *,$)$$$$ %('$)$$$$
                                   ,)


*-                       

           $,%)+'$-&,,   &      %($$$$$$$ ()))$$$$ %,)))$$$$
                                   ,(


+$   
	                    

           $,%'*)(%-),   %     %)$$$$$$$ +%$$$$$$ &&%$$$$$$
                                   &'


+%   

                

          $,$')+*((-%   %      %')*$,)$$ &&$$$$$$ %)+*$,)$$
                                   ,$


+&   



     

           $,$)+-,%-%$   %     %'$$$$$$$ -)$$$$$$ &&)$$$$$$

                                   ,%


+'   

               

           $,%+*$(&+$-   %     %&$$$$$$$ -,)-$$$$ &%,)-$$$$
                                   %$



+(   
	
        

           $,$''-+%)*+   &                                               %,)$$$$$$ (*+&$$$$$
                                                                                                 &,&&$$$$$ 
                                   %$&


+)   	
            

           $,$,-)&&(')   &     &,,$$$$$$ --)$$$$$ ',+)$$$$$
                                   *


+*   

                 

          $,%,,)%,&-$   %      %+$$$$$$$ ((&$$$$$ &%(&$$$$$
                                   %$'


++   

              

           $,%+&-''*(-   &     %$$$$$$$$ ,$*+$$$$ %,$*+$$$$
                                   %(		

+,             

          $,%*+((*-)$   %                                                %'$$$$$$$ ',$$$$$$$
                                                                                                 &)$$$$$$$ 
                                   +(		

+-   

	             

           $,%,'*')+((   %     %&$$$$$$$ +)$$$$$$ %-)$$$$$$
                                   %$)

      $,%$%$**-((
,$                     

            $,$,$&&%*)+    %!      %)$$$$$$$ +)$$$$$$ &&)$$$$$$
                                   )


,%   
	
          

            $,$)$%$&(*-    %!     %$$$$$$$$ %)%$$$$$ %%)%$$$$$
                                   ''

      $,$+)'()%()
,&                  

            $,$-%,$'**%    %!   %$$$$$$$$ +',*$$$$ %+',*$$$$
                                   (


,'   

           

            $,$'-%%,$&-    %!     ,+$$$$$$ +)$$$$$$ %*&$$$$$$
                                   '$		
                   
,(   	                 

            $,%+,$))')%    %!            %&$$$$$$$ *-,,$$$$ %,-,,$$$$
                                   


,)                    

            $,%',+%$((+    %!                                                %%'&$$$$$ %,%&$$$$$
                                                                                                   *,$$$$$$ 
                                   %%

,*   
	                 

            $,$))%&($%$    &!     %%'$)$$$$ *+)'$$$$ %,$),$$$$
                                   ''

,+                   

            $,$**'-%'+'    %!     ,,$$$$$$ ,$$$$$$$ %*,$$$$$$
                                   %%


,,   	           

            $+$*'*)&-%+    %!     *$$$$$$$ ,%$$$$$$ %(%$$$$$$
                                   (


,-   
	
       

          $+$*&-,((++      %!     ,$-$$$$$ &)$)$$$$ %$)-)$$$$
                                   %$*


-$                    

          $,%+,(,&*(+      %!     *,$)+$$$ &$$$$$$$ ,,$)+$$$
                                   %$+


-%   		
                

            $,%,*+')*,%    %!      ),-$$$$$ '-(+$$$$ -,'+$$$$
                                   %$)

   $+$(&),+$$-
-&                    

            $,$')%'%,%)    %!     )))$&$$$ &)*$$$$$ ,%%$&$$$
                                   ,		

-'   

        

            $,$,+)-)+,%    %!      ,*$$$$$$ -$$$$$$$ %+*$$$$$$
                                   %$


-(   	         

            $,$&-&&*-(*    %!     %$$$$$$$$ *$$$$$$$ %*$$$$$$$
                                   *-


-)                    

            $,$&-&&*-(*    %!     *,+$$$$$ ,)$$$$$$ %)'+$$$$$
                                   %$'


-*   


      

            $+$*&-,((++    %!      %%$$$$$$$ '+$$$$$$ &%+$$$$$$
                                   -


-+   
                                          $,%$%$(%$*-    %!    %)$$$$$$$ (-$$$$$$ %--$$$$$$
                                   %



-,   	
   

           $,$''*%%$*&    %!      %)$$$$$$$ -,$$$$$$ &(,$$$$$$
                                   ,&



--   	
        

           $,$-%,,*))%    %!     *$$$$$$$ +&$$$$$$ %'&$$$$$$
                                   &)

      $,$&-''%%(,
%$$ 	
	                

           $,$)&$,%)%&    %!      %&$$$$$$$ *&$$$$$$ %,&$$$$$$
                                   '+		

$#$ 
             

         #+#*%&+),+$    $     (+,(#### (&(&#### $$%'+####
                                   $(


$#% 
                 

         #+#('#'+&)*    $     +(###### *#+%#### $((+%####
                                   $%		

$#& 
	                 

         #+#%)+$&&)$    $     ('+,#### ('*%#### $#,)$####
                                   '#


$#' 

                  

         #+#*$'+'(%$    $     +(###### &(###### $%#######
                                   (*


$#(             

         #+#%,%(&+)$    $    $%####### )####### $+#######
                                   $#,



$#) 
	
             

         #+#()$#,,*)    $     '+#,#### )+&##### $$)&,####
                                   )


$#* 	

             

         #*#+(%'*$*(    $     ,####### ,(###### $+(######
                                   %$


     #+#&*$(+$##
$#+ 	

     

         #+#((),'%(+    $     ,####### ((###### $'(######
                                   $#

$#, 
	
           

         #+#('%$#,#%    $    $######## )(&##### $)(&#####
                                   &%		

$$# 
	           

         #+$(()$+$*)    $    ,(###### '&###### $&+######
                                   %



$$$ 
         

         #+#()$*%$'*    $                                                $#%%&#### %##%&####
                                                                                                 ,+###### 
                                   $#



$$% 



   

         #+#+),))$''    $     (####### '%###### ,%######
                                   $#+		

$$& 	

        

         #+#**$$*')*    $     '()##### ($+(#### ,*'(####
                                   $%		
                     $
$$' 



     

         #+#((+$$)*%                     *(###### )(###### $'#######
                                   $#,		
                    $
$$( 
      

         #+#&*$&%*+&                     *+###### &%%'#### $$#%'####
                                   &#

                    $
$$) 
           

         #+#&&)$$#)%                     ,(###### *####### $)(######
                                   '


$$* 
	            

         #+#($)((')&    $      )####### *(###### $&(######
                                   &)

                   $ 
$$+ 

          

         #+#**'($&&'                     *(###### (####### $%(######
                                   $$(

                   $ 
$$, 
           

         #+#(%,),%(%                     '+###### ((,##### $#&,#####
                                   &$


                    
$%# 
                

         #+#*(+#,),#    $            $(####### )####### %$#######
                                   $#(


                   $ 
$%$ 	         

         #+#&&##'()+                     )(###### (*%+#### $%%%+####
                                   $)		
                    $ 
$%% 
            

         #+#*(&$&&+&                     )(###### &,%(#### $#'%(####
                                 "'

                  "
"#$ 

         

         !)!'&*(!)$*                   (!!!!!!! %&!!!!!! ""&!!!!!!
                                 )*


                   "
"#% 
     

                                                                                         &###!!!! ""(&(!!!!
                                                                                             '&$&!!!! 
                                 *)

                   "
"#& 


       

         !(!$')*''"$                                                                     #&!!!!!! "!!!!!!!!
                                                                                             (&!!!!!! 
                                 *		
                    "
"#' 
                  

         !)!'#()&('%                   "#!!!!!!! 
                                                                                                                                              %%!!!!!! "'%!!!!!!
                                 &#

                  "
"#( 

             

         !)"&''%#&&)                                                                    (&!!!!!! "*&!!!!!!
                                                                                             "#!!!!!!! 
                                 "(


                   "
"#) 

             

         !)!$#&!&&''                   )!!!!!!! 
                                                                                                                                               (!!!!!!! "&!!!!!!!
                                 "!"

   !)!##&'(#&'   "
"#*                

         !(!&$$#)&'#                   )&!!&!!! $**&!!!! "#%*&&!!!
                                 """

                  "
"$!            

         !)")(*$&#&$                   '&!!!!!! $!!!!!!! *&!!!!!!
                                 ((
                   "
"$" 
       

         !(!$#'%!(*(                   *!!!!!!! (""&!!!! "'""&!!!!
                                 #$

                  "
"$# 
	          

          !)"&*'#"(!$                   (#!!!!!! &!!(!!!! "##!(!!!!
                                 $&

                  "
"$$ 

             

          !)!&'&"'#$*                   )!!!!!!! #!(!!!!! "!!(!!!!!
                                 "&

                   "
"$% 
        

          !)!'%%*"%)*                   "#!!!!!!! )(&!!!!! #!(&!!!!!
                                 $)

                   "
"$& 


   

          !)!&##'($%(                   "#!!!!!!! *!!!!!!! #"!!!!!!!
                                 "!$

                 "
"$'               

                                       '""&!!!! &"#$!!!! ""#$)!!!!
                                 "$


                  "
"$( 
            

         !)!(('!#$%)                   )&!!!!!! "&'!!!!! "!!'!!!!!
                                 #%		
                    "
"$) 
            

         !)!$$$$"%#(                   "#!!!!!!! *&!!!!!! #"&!!!!!!
                                 "#


                   "
"$* 

         

          !)"&)"&)'"#                   '!!!!!!! %$(!!!!! "!$(!!!!!
                                 "'

                   "
"%! 
	         

                                        &'!!!!!! ""!!!!!! '(!!!!!!
                                 $$		
                    "
"%"               

         !(!&*)%#$!'                   "$!!!!!!! ""$&!!!! "%"$&!!!!
                                 #(		
                     "
"%# 
            

         !)!#$(!)#*'                   ""!!!!!!! '*(!!!!! "(*(!!!!!
                                 %)
                   "
"%$ 
           

         !)!'!$"")'(                   (&!!!!!! "%'!!!!! )*'!!!!!
                                 &"		
                     "
"%% 
          

         !(!&(!)$!(%                   "(!!!!!!! )%'!!!!! #&%'!!!!!
                            4:,,
                     /4%'0
478 
	        
,
            3;3665;38;<                   4,333,333-33 657,833-33 4,657,833-33
                            93,		,
                       /4%'0
479 
        
,
            3:3656:9449                   4,833,333-33 :83,333-33 5,583,333-33
                            43:,		,
                      /4%'0
47: 

   
,
            3:3;<39;976                   :;3,<33-33 898,833-33 4,679,733-33

47; 
          "*+$,'(         3;366<:499:   /4%'0                       :83,333-33 833,333-33 4,583,333-33
                                                                                           

47< +%)&% +         8<,)&(&(,'(    3:3656:9449   "%!/4%'0    4,;33,333-33 ;33,333-33 5,933,333-33

483 %"*(%+)')*      46,)&(&(,'(    3:3656:9449   /4%'0                       <33,333-33 933,333-33 4,833,333-33
                                                                                           

484 (&)"%#%          6,)&'(&(,'(    3;386357<<5   /4%'0                        983,333-33 <;3,333-33 4,963,333-33
                                                                                           

485 %&+%#.          :;,)&(&(,'(   3;35<57<646   /4%'0                        :83,333-33 783,333-33 4,533,333-33
                                                                                           

486 #'+$!!&   :,%##)$(+%,'(   3;45<334676   /4%'0                        :33,333-33 
                                                                                                                                  .   :33,333-33

487 %#'
!)%#%"   7,"*+$,'(     3:376<6:<<8   /4%'0                        <33,333-33 556,333-33 4,456,333-33
                                                                                           

    		                                                                                       

 

 


                                                                                           
                        		
				
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                 
     	

(&                                ,4,/-423,,.    (/ ")
   - 
)                        10%
$!"#   ,4-3/42/,-.                    .%1,,%,,,',, -%4,,%,,,',,                   0%/,,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                        ,4,1.-,.3,2    (- ")
   . 
                          /%
$!"#    ,4,1.-,.02,                    31,%,,,',, 21,%,,,',,                    -%0,,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                       (- ")
   / 	

                   0%
$!"#    ,4,./432231                    3,,%,,,',, /1,%,,,',,                    -%,1,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                       (- ")
   0 
                        2%
$!"#    ,4,5,2.,5.1                    31,%,,,',, .4,%,,,',,                    -%,/,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                       (- ")
   1 	


                 5%
$!"#    ,4,//0-4.0                     31,%,,,',, -%201%,,,',,                  .%/51%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         
     

(&                                               (- ")
   2 
)                        3%
$!"#    ,4,2./,/5.-                    43,%,,,',, 50,%,,,',,                    -%4-,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                       (- ")
   3 	                      4%
$!"#    ,3,0-033205                    01,%,,,',, 5,,%,,,',,                    -%/1,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                       (- ")
   4                         -,%
$!"#   ,3,1-413/02                   01,%,,,',, /1,%,,,',,        4,,%,,,',,

   5                         -2%
$!"#   ,3,11/0,3..    (- ")      .1,%,,,',, 22,%,,,',,     5-,%,,,',,

 -,                           -0%
$!"#   ,4-3-2-52.1    (- ")      /1,%,,,',, 342%,,,',,                 -%-/2%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         

 -- 


                         -/%
$!"#   ,3,4/141/5-    (- ")      /1,%,,,',, 34,%,,,',,                 -%-/,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         

 -. 
                  .%
$!"#    ,4,//-15325    (- ")       11,%,,,',, -%/,,%,,,',,               -%41,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         

 -/ 	                      -%
$!"#    ,4,./20/-20    (- ")      01,%,,,',, 4,,%,,,',,                 -%.1,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         

 -0 

                         -1%
$!"#   ,4-.-/-01,     (- ")       /1,%,,,',, 3-,%,,,',,                 -%,2,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         

 -1 '
                      -.%
$!"#   ,3,/./32--2    (- ")      031%,,,',, 03,%,,,',,     501%,,,',,

 -2 
                       -/%
$!"#   ,4,33.0-,42    (- ")      01,%,,,',, 51,%,,,',,                 -%0,,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         

 -3                        -2%
$!"#   ,4-4,/,.425    (- ")      /1,%,,,',, 31,%,,,',,                 -%-,,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         

 -4                            -3%
$!"#   ,4,.0/0/-/5    (- ")       01,%,,,',, 54,%,,,',,                 -%0/,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         

 -5 



                    -4%
$!"#   ,4-/0,2/3,1    (- ")      /1,%,,,',, 43,%,,,',,                 -%..,%,,,',,
                                                                                                                                                         
., 

      -5%
# !"   ,4,33.32,42    '-!(   31,%,,,&,, 21,%,,,&,,                 -%0,,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

.- 		       .,%
# !"   ,4-2/1/-,4,    '-!(   0,,%,,,&,, 43,%,,,&,,                 -%.3,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

.. 

	       1%
# !"    ,4,4210,/,.    '-!(   01,%,,,&,, 55,%,,,&,,                 -%00,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

./ 
             .1%
# !"   ,4-3/42/,-.    '-!(   13,%,,,&,, -%5,,%,,,&,,               .%03,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

.0 
              .3%
# !"   ,4,1-.,2/03    '-!(   0-,%,,,&,, 34,%,,,&,,                 -%-5,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

.1 	
          03%
# !"   ,3,1-413/02    '-!(   0-1%,,,&,, 4%02,%,,,&,,               4%431%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

.2 
            .4%
# !"   ,3,11/0,3..    '-!(   0/,%,,,&,, -%.4,%,,,&,,               -%3-,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

.3 
	   .2%
# !"   ,4,.23345-5   '-!(   1,,%,,,&,, -%/,,%,,,&,,               -%4,,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

.4 
          .5%
# !"   ,4123,2/44    '-!(   03,%,,,&,, 35,%,,,&,,                 -%.2,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

.5 

         /.%
# !"   ,4,4210,/,.    '-!(   1,,%,,,&,, -%1,,&,,,&,,          )$

/, 
         0/%
# !"   ,4,/4/-3204    '-!(    /4,%,,,&,, 31,%,,,&,,                 -%-/,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

/- 

            2,%
# !"   ,4,3/,/311.    '-!(    /1,%,,,&,, 31,%,,,&,,                 -%-,,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

/.              20%
# !"   ,4,4.3/3,14    '-!(   /3,%,,,&,, 31,%,,,&,,                 -%-.,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

// 
           2.%
# !"   ,3,4.44-32-    '-!(   //,%,,,&,, 31,%,,,&,,                 -%,4,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

/0             2/%
# !"   ,4,5-000,-.    '-!(   /5,%,,,&,, 31,%,,,&,,                 -%-0,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

/1 
                15%
# !"   ,4,/-423,,.    '-!(   /41%,,,&,, 31,%,,,&,,                 -%-/1%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

/2 



           23%
# !"   ,4,453-5020    '-!(   /.,%,,,&,, 31,%,,,&,,                 -%,3,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

/3 
          22%
# !"   ,4-1/0/.145    '-!(   /-,%,,,&,, 31,%,,,&,,                 -%,2,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

/4 



        25%
# !"   ,3,1/211.13    '-!(   /-1%,,,&,, 31,%,,,&,,                 -%,21%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

0- 
         3.%
# !"   ,3,45,51523    '-!(   /5,%,,,&,, 31,%,,,&,,                 -%-0,%,,,&,,
                                                                                                                                        

0. 


          3,%
# !"   ,4,./0--,//    '-!(   /1,%,,,&,, .1,%,,,&,,     2,,%,,,&,,
10 
                    4.%
$!"#   -5-42-.661/   ). "*   05-%---&-- .2-%---&--     20-%---&--

11 

               35%
$!"#   -5-43--4504   ). "*   1.-%---&-- 32-%---&--                 .%-3-%---&--
                                                                                                                                             

12 
                    56%
$!"#   -5.5-6-1531   ). "*   05-%---&-- 52-%---&--                 .%/0-%---&--
                                                                                                                                             

13 
       6/%
$!"#   -5-6.31-25/   ). "*   062%---&-- 32-%---&--                 .%-12%---&--
                                                                                                                                             

14 	
		
     6-%
$!"#   -5-2/641644   ). "*   1-2%---&-- 42-%---&--                 .%.22%---&--
                                                                                                                                             

15 

                44%
$!"#   -4-35.03411   ). "*   054%---&-- /2-%---&--     304%---&--

16               43%
$!"#   -5-3/25224/   ). "*   062%---&-- 02-%---&--     412%---&--

2- 
                 46%
$!"#   -5-6123../.   ). "*   024%---&-- 22-%---&--     6-4%---&--

2. 

                 66%
$!"#   -5.263/.4-0   ). "*   02-%---&-- .%-65%---&--               .%115%---&--
                                                                                                                                             

2/ 
	

                60%
$!"#   -5-3-/43.04   ). "*    1.-%---&-- .%-3-%---&--               .%14-%---&--
                                                                                                                                             

20 	
)*   /0%
$!"#                  )/ "*                                                    '

21 )*       /.%
$!"#                   ). *                                                     '


22 
)*     6%
$!"#                   ). *                                                    '



23 
)*     ..%
$!"#                  ). *                                                     '



24 
)*       ((%'
$'!"#                 ). *


25 


)*      
$!                                ). *

26                      .0%'
$'!"#   -5.5-63/133   ). *      42-%---&-- 1--%---&--                 .%.2-%---&--
                                                                                                                                             

3- 
                   /2%
$!"#    -5-46.1112/   ). *      32-%---&-- 12-%---&--                 .%.--%---&--
                                                                                                                                             


3. 


                   .1%
$!"#    -5-46.112/    ). *&     42-%---&-- 12-%---&--                 .%/--%---&--
                                                                                                                                             
1- 

                ,0$
# !"                   ',(    1++$+++%++ -0+$+++%++   30+$+++%++

1. 
                -,$
# !"                  ',(    1++$+++%++ ,0+$+++%++   20+$+++%++


1/ 
                   --$
# !"                  ',(    10+$+++%++ .++$+++%++   40+$+++%++


10 %
	      -.$
# !"    +3+..2-3,03   ',(    .++$+++%++ -+0$+++%++   0+0$+++%++



11                 ..$
# !"                  ',(    00+$+++%++ .++$+++%++   30+$+++%++

12 
                   ./$
# !"    +3+013+4.-,   ',(    1++$+++%++ -0+$+++%++   30+$+++%++


13 
             .1$
# !"                  ',(    10+$+++%++ -2+$+++%++   4-+$+++%++


14 
'(    .2$
# !"                  ',(                                                 &


2+ 

'(   .4%$
# !"                 ',(                                                 &


2, 
'(     /+$
# !"                  ',(                                                 &


2- 
'(   /-$
# !"    +3,1/3.4,/-   ',(                                                 &


2. 

     /3$
# !"                  ',(    10+$+++%++ /++$+++%++               ,$+0+$+++%++
                                                                                                                                       


2/ 
       /4$
# !"    +3,/32,.++/   ',(    00+$+++%++ .0+$+++%++   4++$+++%++


20 
&            0+$
# !"    +3+1//4,/34   ',(    00+$+++%++ .0+$+++%++   4++$+++%++


21 


     0,$
# "    +3+.3/1+.2+   ',(    00+$+++%++ -0+$+++%++   3++$+++%++


22 %
             
#                    +3+1-.+.4-,   ',(    3++$+++%++ -30$+++%++               ,$+30$+++%++
                                                                                                                                       


23 

               
#                                  ',(   20+$+++%++ -+0$+++%++   400$+++%++
+- 	          	   $,$+(*+%')(    %!    ,$$$$$$$ %*$$$$$$


,$ 
	       	   $,$'(+)-($'    %!    ,)$$$$$$ %*($$$$$


,% 		
         	   $,$&'(%%$''    %!    ,)$$$$$$ &($$$$$$


,& 		   	   $,$')%*,%(,    %!    +)$$$$$$ &,$$$$$$


,'            	   $,%$&%'%()$    %!   ,$$$$$$$ &'$$$$$$


,(            	   $,$''+-%($(    %!   ,$$$$$$$ '$$$$$$$


,) 	   	   $,$+&($&,-)    %!     +)$$$$$$ &($$$$$$


,*          	   $+$%(''$,('    %!    +)$$$$$$ &()$$$$$


,+ 			     	   $,$*&*(,)$%    %!     +)$$$$$$ %'$$$$$$


,, 

       	   $,%&&%)&+)*    %!     ,)$$$$$$ ',$$$$$$


,- 	           	   $+$,*,-&(,,    %!    +$$$$$$$ &%)$$$$$


-$ 
	        	   $,%,'((+'$'    %!     *)$$$$$$ '))$$$$$


-% 	
           	   $,$*+&%&$(*    %!   *)$$$$$$ &'$$$$$$


-& 
		   	   $,$+)$((-'%    %!   ()$$$$$$ &-'$$$$$


-' 	        	   $,%&+*%*,+'    %!   ()$$$$$$ %-)$$$$$

                                                                 




   




 





          






                     	

'&"'%" !

                                                                                           
 			                                 	           


  0 
                      43+
 '$%&    /7/13/55874               385+///9
  1 	

                  43+
 '$%&    /7/1458/772               365+///9
  2 

                     43+
 '$%&    /7/68627/40               460+///9
  3                  43+
 '$%&    /707/421651               633+///9

  4   


    43+
 '$%&       /7/5/363701               535+///9
  5   
     43+
 '$%&       /707/210764               335+///9
  6   
           43+
 '$%&       /70/102034/               587+///9
  7   


             43+
 '$%&       /7/6/024085               307+///9
  8   	,
      43+
 '$%&       /7/22752/50             0+14/+///9
 0/   

            43+
 '$%&       /7/40247412               337+///9
 00   
             43+
 '$%&       /7/44404580             0+48/+///9
 01   
                43+
 '$%&       /7068/17843               403+///9
 02   

            43+
 '$%&       /7/1566/042               357+///9
 03   

              43+
 '$%&       /7/40247412               4/7+///9
 04   

            43+
 '$%&       /702247/386               385+///9
 05   
          43+
 '$%&       /7/452220/0               337+///9
 06   

43+
 '$%&       /7043543567               417+///9
 07   
             43+
 '$%&       /6/47515/73               628+///9
 08   	

             43+
 '$%&       /6/76831328               462+///9
 1/   

              43+
 '$%&       /705576/04/               54/+///9
 10   
               43+
 '$%&       /705576/04/               65/+///9
 11   
                 43+
 '$%&       /6/46708321               54/+///9
 12   
               43+
 '$%&       /70/3465570               64/+///9
 13   

 43+
 '$%&           /6/7110/728               417+///9
                                                                                 $"($)

                   !
'$! !&%'$! !#%
                                                                                           
 			                                  	          
   0 "'"!                 2,
 '$#!!'"&*+/7/2/3/1/03              307+///9
   1 '!"*                  2,
 '$#!!'"&*+/7/14461846              487+///9
   2 	""!#%                    2,
 '$#!!'"&*+/7/73400576              487+///9
   3 )#%%&$                 2,
 '$#!!'"&*+/7/410/135/              327+///9
   4 #"'$                    2,
 '$#!!'"&*+/7/410/135/              257+///9
   5 '"&("                    2,
 '$#!!'"&*+/7/410/135/              387+///9
   6 &                    2,
 '$#!!'"&*+/7/75443/2/1             487+///9
   7 '" !               2,
 '$#!!'"&*+/7/410/135/              357+///9
               





                 	

	'!"%#$"$( 
                                                                                                            
   			                                                        	 
  4                
))  46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/       3;36799;758       653.333=
  5                      $ 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/       3;3:8377<64       :73.333=
  6             - ! #($! 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/       3;3:8377<64       8;3.333=
  7           &'!!"' 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/         3;3:8377<64       953.333=
  8                  !''#) 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/      3;36739;758       873.333=
  9                 $ %&, 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/        3;36739;758       773.333=
  :                   	!#'' 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/       3;433:44868       83;.333=
  ;         ,$"$' 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/           3:3;7985893       7<6.333=
  <               !	!# 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/        3;36739;758       7;;.333=
 43                #) 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/        3;36739;758       7<7.333=
 44              
$")#, 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/         3;3:<:;99:6       83;.333=
 45         "$!$!) #+)#46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/          3;3:8377<64       933.333=
 46                "&)#! 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/         3;38:4378:5       8;3.333=
 47           $#'$#
!'#" 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/         3;3;<5364:4       943.333=
 48               &,)#, 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/        3;36:9<46;<       7<8.333=
 49            !!"'/!) 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/        3;35:893599       733.333=
 4:                  0!$ 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/       3;3673<33;       798.333=
 4;                 $"$ $& 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/        3;3:8377<64       6;3.333=
 4<                       
 $ 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/                      96;.333=
 53                 +! 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/        3;3;<99947:       8:;.333=
 54              ,&$ 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/                          783.333=
 55                        !# 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/                       6:7.333=
 56            *$)&$& 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/         3;399747364       933.333=
 57            #$,")! 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/                            65:.333=
 58                   	!))() 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/       3:3656:9449       859.333=
 59                *$)& " 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/        3;459;:;35<       6;<.333=
 5:                    !+$ 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/      3;3:693953;       793.333=
 5;                 +$ 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/       3;499:3484<       7:3.333=
 5<                 !&,"46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/       3:3656:9449       535.333=
 63           $!!)# 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/          3;45:4694<4       958.333=
 64           $"$!&#' 46.+$&(#(&.&$"$"")#(,.'(/         3:3;8944<:;       674.333=
                                                                                                $!# )

                       	
'!"'('&
                                                                                                            
   			                                                       	 
 4                  $'',            4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(       3;39543;339       755.333=
 5               &,$##             4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(       3;469869:<5       843.333=
 6               	!#$)&            4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(       3:379373686       7;3.333=
 7                 )# $#             4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(       3;4;9:;58:7       588.333=
 8               ($#,,#(            4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(       3:363:<38<7       574.833=
 9                )#(&           4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(       3;3:656<93:       799.333=
 :         &/$'%)%             4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(       3:3;;:9<6<6       838.333=
 ;         &/&# !#) +)            4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(       3;3994:388:       665.333=
 <              )#" #($!            4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(       3;39568:;;5       845.333=
43         ()#$#(              4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(        3;45;74<99       463.333=
44              )#"$'             4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(                         488.333=
45                       *$)&          4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(                         643.;33=
46                /-)             4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(       3:344735;33       783.333=
47           $&$"$!$)              4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(                         588.<33=
48                 ")!$#            4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(       3;3637<5<<6       839.333=
49                 (%#,#            4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(                         633.333=
4:             "!$!$)#            4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(       3;356;<;3:3     693.333/33
4;               (&#           4.+$&(#(&(.&$".'(       3:3473:9:73       893.333=
 4<               "+%$ ,&+(         40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                         7<30;33=
 53                  
&-+#&+%        40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                         6330833=
 54                       # . &%     40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;465<87756           7690333=
 55            &$&#&!++%$ #.&         40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3:3475<8:83           6:30333=
 56                       	&'".       40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                         8430333=
 57                      &$".       40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;477<85567           7630333=
 58                  .((*        40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;3<;:<<<87           5<30333=
 59                 &)'#)) %       40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                         4880333=
 5:                    +        40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                         4530333=
 5;                (%"# %+"-+        40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                         5530<33=
 5<                    &%%$&        40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                         4580333=
 63                +# % &+%        40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;38444<;<9           7:60333=
 64                 #)) %/       40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;46<5<5877           88;0333=
 65                      &%%(      40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;46<5<5877           4380333=
 66               	%"(+%-          40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;465<<3::4           6670333=
 67              * * *(+%.       40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                         5330333=
 68                   . %# #      40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;356;5<37:           6730333=
 69                        &%      40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3:3434<96;;           74;0333=
 6:                &)'+'         40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                         4630833=
 6;                      +"-/       40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;35898<;8<           7970<33=
 6<             
            40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;36:998<49           7;80333=
 73                              40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;499;4;7<<           6360333=
 74              	
            40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                         4880833=
 75                 
         40-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;47<86<983           6<30333=
                                                                                              "'$!(

                         !
&#"##&%& !
                                                                                                           
                                                       
  4                &%#.&!           :40+(*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;36;:46:<7      6970333=
  5                 %)#.+*.         :40+(*(*0!(&$ 0 )*    3;4:936875      7430333=
  6                  "&(          :40+(*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                    6880933=
  7                &)'#)) %         :40+(*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                    5930<33=
  8                      #+%         :40+(*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;49:8<34<<      93;0333=
  9                  &)# %#         :40+(*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3:39;75443:      6490333=
  :                   &%$&"+           :40+(*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                    6880333=
  ;                #&' $ # %         :40+(*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                    5580933=
  <                    #&'&'          :40+(*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                    4<<0833=
 43                  "&%"-& *          :40+(*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                    5590<33=
 44             #++%$ .&$            :40+(*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3:3;9:93368      6650333=
 45                      &)"          :40+(*(*0!(&$ 0 )*   3;364665::<      46:0833=
                                                                                          !%'(

      			& !&'&%"
                                                                                                         
                                                                                                    
                                                                         
  4                         &+%      60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                       4580933=
  5                             / %     60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )* 3:3958<9899           5430833=
  6                         +'&(&       60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                       5880983=
  7                         &$ #       60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                       5560933=
  8                      &! )&#+      60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )* 3:38:5:4337           7480333=
  9                      )*($&#       60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )* 3;38:;856<9           8530333=
  :                      &/&%)&%       60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                       6580833=
  ;             (&$&(!       60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )* 3;3;::9:34<           4580333=
  <                          .//      60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )* 3;3675987:5           5<30333=
 43                          " (+) )     60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )* 3;38;;6:6<<           64;0333=
 44                       )) )      60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )* 3;385866378           6490333=
 45                           *(+      60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )*                       4<;0933=
 46                      %!$ % )       60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )* 3;38444<;<9           6890333=
 47                       %%&%+       60-&(*%*(*0!(&$ 0 )* 3;399648336           6;80333=
 59                     ()'"*        70,%')$)')0 '%#0()                      6670:44>
 5:               ,% .,**           70,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<4;==8=7<=        86:0444>
 5;                    )*(%((         70,%')$)')0 '%#0()    4<54664578        9;40444>
 5<                 #"!*$)        70,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<467<=<4;4        8770444>
 5=        '(1"%*$%)*$'.%          70,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<56<<669<8        5<40444>
 64              '1	"%*$         70,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<5<5<45;=4        5:40444>
 65                   *$!*          70,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<5459:<647        6:;0444>
                                                                                             %"!#$)

                    #'!"!&% &&$
                                                                                                        
    			                                                   	 
  5                  %%",%"        <0,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<46<:68=66       77<0444>
  6        '1%"%#%$%,"           <0,%')$)')0 '%#0()                     6:=0<44>
  7                %*$/#          <0,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<5769<7675       6;90444>
  8                 %(*.&         <0,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<46:6:5<69       6940444>
  9                 %"(($        <0,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<4:6<77<=4       6=70444>
  :             "*,)%.$#           <0,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<4697=;868       6;70444>
  ;                     #!' )       <0,%')$)')0 '%#0()                     7690844>
  <                  ()*"       <0,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<4<;:;8=4<       9740444>
  =   #)%&"*,)%.$%.         <0,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<4=946;69=       7440444>
 54                   *#%!"#        <0,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<56:69=::5       7940444>
 55                  *$.%         <0,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<4=::8<94:       7740444>
 56              $*$'%          <0,%')$)')0 '%#0()   4<5:<97:9;6       5:40444>
                                                                                            "%(#!)



                     $
'!%%"(#$%
                                                                                                        
    			                                                   	 
  5            '1*$.! *           ;90*')')0 '%#0()   4<499964556       68:0444>
  6            '(1)%'#(          ;90*')')0 '%#0()   4<4<:88;45:       7690444>
  7           '(1*!!..%#            ;90*')')0 '%#0()   4<4;8<785<8       5:<0444>
  8                  $#*%            ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     6:40444>
  9            '(1*$#".%
          ;90*')')0 '%#0()   4<4<8864758       8=50444>
  :                 "#!           ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     9940444>
  ;                   *$           ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     7940444>
  <                   	""$+          ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     7740444>
  =                 $.$.!'           ;90*')')0 '%#0()   4<4<<899<98       5<50444>
 54           $)%$##$*"             ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     7940444>
 55                
%#"          ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     7440444>
 56                        %."-        ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     8440444>
 57               *$.!$(.           ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     8440444>
 58                 $"#%(*"          ;90*')')0 '%#0()   4<5<<5:68:<       7540444>
 59                  (")*"         ;90*')')0 '%#0()   4;4:7=848:=       97=0944>
 5:                '*$(           ;90*')')0 '%#0()    ;4767;:55:       98;0444>
 5;            '($%/)$(           ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     69<0944>
 5<             '",            ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     :640444>
 5=              '(*.$            ;90*')')0 '%#0()    <47=85;:8=       :940444>
 64              '("%'.!#            ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     :<40444>
 65               '(.$#!            ;90*')')0 '%#0()    <4;;6::;4<       ;440444>
 66            '$.%$.            ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     64:0444>
 67       '(*$#,"
'#            ;90*')')0 '%#0()    <4<=77949:       8940444>
 68             '$"%$(%$            ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     9640444>
 69                '(#)*
(           ;90*')')0 '%#0()                     :<40444>
 6:               '
!/%#$            ;90*')')0 '%#0()    <5485=;=99        ;50444>
 6;          '.%*$'%            ;90*')')0 '%#0()    <4<55<4<<:       8740444>
 6<                  !
!"          ;90*')')0 '%#0()    <4:78485:8       :880444>
 6=            !$".$!           ;90*')')0 '%#0()    <5:9:67575       7880444>
 74               '*!.!%'           ;90*')')0 '%#0()   4;4:7<;859=       86:0444>
 75                  '(#!           ;90*')')0 '%#0()   4<4<<<4:<=;       ;440444>
                                                                                                $!$)
                         $	
&""!&#&'

                                                                                                                 
                                                                 
  6              #!	/!                     <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*                    7851555?
  7                        
% %                 <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*
  8                    #!
+"+)                  <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*                      6:51555?
  9                     +!	)("                 <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*                      7551555?
  :                   %"! $                  <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*                    61;551555?
  ;                *&$ %+                    <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*                      6951555?
  <               	%#-$(                     <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*
  =                       %0+                  <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*                      6=:1555?
  >                          
%/".               <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*
 65                 	%#"                   <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*
 66                   "$,                   <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*
 67                    +$                   <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*
 68                  /(()                  <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*                      ;551555?
 69                  %,*")%$                   <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*                      :751555?
 6:                  #!%))                     <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*                      ;751555?
 6;                      "/%#                  <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*
 6<                 /$!%/                    <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*                      ;551555?
 6=           $*%$##$+"                      <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*   5=5<:599>86        8751755?
 6>              +$/!$)/                     <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*   5=5<:599>86        7;>1=55?
 75                   $((*                  <;1+(*(*1 (%#1)*   5=5<:599>86        6::1555?
                                                                                                           ' $#(

                               %		'%
                                                                                                                 
                                                                 
  6                    /%"&)                       91%##+$*/%1)*      5=57==:;>5;       6<=1555?
  7                #"("                         91%##+$*/%1)*      5=6765;7=:8       7<<1555?
  8          ()*$%#&)%$                          91%##+$*/%1)*      5=5>;;=8897       67=1555?
  9                     "$                         91%##+$*/%1)*                        8:51555?
  :              *$%!%#                          91%##+$*/%1)*      5=7;989::>5       6781:55?
  ;               /%##                         91%##+$*/%1)*                        7:51555?
  <                 (%+$                         91%##+$*/%1)*      5<5;7>=99<<       6<91:55?
  =             +$/+)$                          91%##+$*/%1)*      5=578;79588       7851555?
                                                                                                      % (

                                         &'$
                                                                                                                 
                                                                 
  6       %)"$!%)"#*%&                      ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5=6<95787<5       9851555?
  7              /%#)$/                        ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5=5897:5>7=       7:<1555?
  8                     "$                       ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5=68<=77557       8;51555?
  9                /%##                       ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5=68=9:=;<5        7;1555?
  :                         $+                      ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5<5;:5=:889       98;1:55?
  ;                     )'
#%                      ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5=6<=:8;>>:       8;51555?
  <               ,))/                      ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5<588:599=<       8>51555?
  >   "+-)%"#%"%""+-)+$                        ;>1%##+$*/%1)*                        8951555?
 65                   +0%("+                      ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5<58686=:89       8>71555?
 66                     %!#+"                      ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5=666>::8;=       ;:51555?
 67                 %$/")%                       ;>1%##+$*/%1)*                        9<71>55?
 68          "/%#+#"                         ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5<58=7=978;        991555?
 69                %"$-+$                        ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5<5:7668;>>       8=51555?
 6:               (2*"+#                      ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5<5:899:;<>     61==51<7:?
 6;                     #+"
%$                      ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5=5;7955<7:       8>51555?
 6<                      +&%(%                      ;>1%##+$*/%1)*      5<5:;>;=9:<       8561555?
                                                                                                     %  !#(
                           )
 (! ! $! &))(

                                                                                                                 
    			                                                            	 
  7      '"/"(+-'&"%/(         ?1.(*,'1#*(&"(&&-'",/1"+,                           8;61666@
  8           ('*	0$"!         ?1.(*,'1#*(&"(&&-'",/1"+,         6=6?::?>=98       <:61666@
  9          %%(!"''"/,        ?1.(*,'1#*(&"(&&-'",/1"+,         6>7>8787<97       7?61666@
  :            +(#"".("$"*,      ?1.(*,'1#*(&"(&&-'",/1"+,                           9>61666@
  ;        '"/"-+/(%"0,!       ?1.(*,'1#*(&"(&&-'",/1"+,         6>6;=?69698       :761666@
  <      -+,)!"',-'          ?1.(*,'1#*(&"(&&-'",/1"+,                           7;61666@
  =      #-*",%%'*.#-        ?1.(*,'1#*(&"(&&-'",/1"+,                           7>61666@
  >        .-&"%-+!(%%-*         ?1.(*,'1#*(&"(&&-'",/1"+,         6>6<:=6>8?8       8?61666@
  ?              %-'"'-.          ?1.(*,'1#*(&"(&&-'",/1"+,                            =61666@
 76              	$&-$(/           ?1.(*,'1#*(&"(&&-'",/1"+,                                  33
 77           +!(!&&            ?1.(*,'1#*(&"(&&-'",/1"+,                           :>:1>66@
                                                                                                         "%&    *


                        ! 
 ( ##&!! &"!!'
                                                                                                                
                                                                                                            
    			                                                            	               
  7              *2',"&&'-%                    961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6=6<6?6>778        8<=1666@
  8    *2(.(%."%-+(%&+/                     961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>6=8<7=;<?        9;61666@
  9   *2%(+!( ('!(&+                      961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>79=><?=:?        8<:1666@
  :             *2+"--+,)!                     961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>6<=998=7>        :861666@
  ;         *+2-'&"%(%$"'&"                    961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>79;;9;=79        :761666@
  <                 *2,*"$#+"'                 961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>6<<<779>6        :7;1666@
  =              *2%-&"#(                    961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>6;=;>===>        9?71666@
  >           *2!"' -'/&"                     961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>79>8<668?        9;>1666@
  ?        *+2(%+!&(* !                     961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>7<9;976>6        :761666@
 76                   *2"/"-'"                  961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>7>;=68;76        9:61666@
 77         *2+,-+ -',"&"!"'                    961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>78=<7<>=?        9871666@
 78              *2 -'&(#-.                     961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6=6:9<88:;7        ;7?1666@
 79                *2/"&(#-.                    961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>69<=?:7>9        ;691666@
 7:           *+2(%'%'" ($'                   961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>6;;6<<<>7        :>61666@
 7;          *+2!"'&(--'"                     961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>68=>?>6;6        :861666@
 7<           *+2 *("&(%                     961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>6;7>9766?        8?61666@
 7=           *+2&$ !&-                      961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>767=>=;;8        8>61666@
 7>            *2#"(%-+,)!                    961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>6>89<?=>8        :961666@
 7?                 *2-+,"'"('                 961(&&-'",/(1"+,         6>69>:><<=8        :861666@
 86                   /(%
%,(                  961(&&-'",/(1"+,          >6>=8<==?;        8981666@
 87                
(.-$'#-(%                    961(&&-'",/(1"+,          >79>?;;?7>        =>61666@
                                                                                                      '"((   *

                        !! ( #'!#"'(#!!&
                                                                                                                 
    			                                                            	 
  7                *2//-                       76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>6;?9<6==:      >=61666@
  8           *2%'#"-+"%"-                      76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>69>66><<<      >891666@
  9                 !"'/-                       76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>698>8>;86      9?61666@
  :                     %/-                     76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>68:<88>=<      8:<1666@
  ;             *2-$&'-"*                       76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>68>;98866      =>61666@
  <                     #"$ *                    76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>68<78;7;6      86?1666@
  =               &"/(--+                        76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6=6;8==>;><      9;91666@
  >         *+2,"'-$%&"#"                      76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>699?99=;<      =>61666@
  ?              "' +%/',!('/                       76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>6><::<?69      9=?1666@
 76               -'+(,((%.                        76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>6;>8?<=:6      <>61666@
 77       /.-&"%++"' %(.(                        76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>6;:6:7==<      ;761666@
 78              &-%&'(                         76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>7:?:98:>>      96>1666@
 79                    %+*"',-                    76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>7=>6?:=?:      >8>1666@
 7:           *!&2'+!                         76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>797<8==6:      =761666@
 7;                   %!'+!                      76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6>797<8==6:      <<61666@
 7<                 
(.-"(-'                       76?1!-*!,*,1"+,       6=6<=:>:986      =961666@
 4:                   (*,()*(                  43<.*')').()       3;45:949;:<        <:3.333=
 4;                    #,                  43<.*')').()       3;358488856        54:.333=
 4<                 
'""$
 *(#                   43<.*')').()       3;45;9:8:76        656.<33=
                                                                                                  ! '&&)   *


                    !" ' #"#'&!!&!%!
                                                                                                               
    			                                                          	 
  4                     ,$$)          46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;3693;;<48       987.333=
  5               ! *#,"          46.$""*#),$.'$".()       03;3:<<<;:5:      ;:3.333=
  6                        #         46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;3;;:78358       93<.333=
  7                  	((##,*           46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;365595654     4.398.333=
  8                " *#!             46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;4;6:;46:;       ;38.333=
  9               $!
 *#*           46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;369<8:9<8     4.363.333=
  :                     )$'           46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;48<954:36       <58.333=
  ;              +* *$ $'             46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;4:<878<47       883.333=
  <          +$$#*'#              46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;46:59;:;9       748.333=
 43        ($)'!*+(#"            46.$""*#),$.'$".()         3;48:55595       <8:.333=
 44                      *##          46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;4964<6675       ::5.333=
 45                     #"$#           46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;46:49<8<9     4.45<.<33=
 46              '/)*+
,$           46.$""*#),$.'$".()         3;3;:78358       ;<:.333=
 47                 ,,            46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;3693;;<48       <33.333=
 48               $(!#$,           46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;38774<9<3       ;95.333=
 49                      %$$#          46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;36:;<<594       :85.333=
 4:                     * $!         46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;3;7;;9:77       ;95.333=
 4;                  ,$(           46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;38:57:5<6       <78.333=
 4<                     (
'"        46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;3:<<6985:       <;3.333=
 53                "$*#             46.$""*#),$.'$".()         ;38:69<784       <<3.333=
 54                    $(%
(         46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;3:8;3<9<3       8;3.333=
 55                 
("!$,          46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3:3;;95;636       768.333=
 56         '(/$'!** $!            46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;494936:48       ;<8.333=
 57               $**()#           46.$""*#),$.'$".()        3;3693;;<48     4.333.333=
                                                                                                  !)(')) *


                     !#	 ( ##      $%&(!""

                                                                                                               
    			                                                          	 
  4              '/+#,$$!              438.!+,#.'$".()      3;4;8669<<:       833.333=
  5             '(/*')!)            438.!+,#.'$".()      3:36:879833       833.333=
  6     '/,$,,*#,               438.!+,#.'$".()      3;36;4:634:       983.333=
  7         '(/!)#!            438.!+,#.'$".()      3;395464;:3       833.333=
  8               '(/")#             438.!+,#.'$".()      3:387;3565:       983.333=
  9         '/!!*"*,+               438.!+,#.'$".()      3;35<;64;6<       ;37.333=
  :         +!!#'+*$&              438.!+,#.'$".()      3;36:;6743<       983.333=
  ;        ()$''(#"+$!              438.!+,#.'$".()      3;386<63<;4       7;8.333=
  <                "$#'*!              438.!+,#.'$".()      3:3;;:9;;75       7:;.333=
 43         !*+!,"$ *#*+                 438.!+,#.'$".()      3;365:456;4       633.333=
                                                                                                   %%!'   *


                    !$


 ( %""&'#$'!#&
                                                                                                               
    			                                                          	 
  4            '/"$!'#(!,                  6;.$""*#),$.()                           683.333=
  5       '(/$( ($##                   6;.$""*#),$.()         3;35:3:<577       ::3.333=
  6            '(/- !/* ,                  6;.$""*#),$.()         3;3:7775448       578.333=
  7     '/- !$#,!#                  6;.$""*#),$.()         3;356<55349       583.333=
  8   $(%'()#"$!                    6;.$""*#),$.()                           ;83.333=
  9               ,$*#'$                   6;.$""*#),$.()                           763.333=
  :         !$"+$ "                    6;.$""*#),$.()                           793.333=
  ;                  "*!"*$                   6;.$""*#),$.()                         4.533.333=
  <                  '$!"$,%!                6;/%##*$)-%/()          3;38<<;76:9        763/333=
 43                      (*$               6;/%##*$)-%/()                             89:/333=
 44                    	!.%#$                 6;/%##*$)-%/()          3;4374<:<88        633/333=
 45                    !	!"               6;/%##*$)-%/()          3;396737497        875/333=
 46                       #)*	(               6;/%##*$)-%/()                             753/333=
 47                 $-%$-                 6;/%##*$)-%/()                             953/333=
 48                    (*-$                6;/%##*$)-%/()                             963/333=
 49                      -$#!                6;/%##*$)-%/()                             833/333=
 4:                     "%'-!#                6;/%##*$)-%/()                             8;3/333=
 4;                 #*"#*%                  6;/%##*$)-%/()          3:367987477        9;3/333=
 4<                  ",%!$                6;/%##*$)-%/()                             843/333=
 53                   '*$ %                6;/%##*$)-%/()          3;3;9984883        783/333=
 54              
%(&#%"!                  6;/%##*$)-%/()          3:378<:577:      6/733/<33=
 55             !$"-$!                 6;/%##*$)-%/()           ;498956464        677/333=
 56                     		%,*"!               6;/%##*$)-%/()                             76</333=
 57             '	%,**(                  6;/%##*$)-%/()          ;4;::974<;         5;</<33=
 58                  $"%*$                  6;/%##*$)-%/()          ;498956464         638/333=
 59            ''$!"$,%!                   6;/%##*$)-%/()          ;38<<;76:9         983/333=
 5:           '0*'*$*                   6;/%##*$)-%/()                             683/333=
 5;           '(0#%.')$(                  6;/%##*$)-%/()                             58;/833=
 5<           '(0"%'-!&-%$                  6;/%##*$)-%/()                             973/333=
                                                                                                  !$!($) *


                        !%
 ( ####!$"'!#)
                                                                                                              
   			                                                          	 
  4                *'##$*"               57/*')')/ '%#()       3:3;:9:<363       853/333=
  5            -%'$"#               57/*')')/ '%#()       3;3893983;5       6;3/333=
  6                 -$"%-*$              57/*')')/ '%#()        ( ##'%%))#       783/333=
  7              %"*$ #$               57/*')')/ '%#()       3;36734<833       573/333=
  8               *$*$-%                57/*')')/ '%#()       3;3:85;95:;       6:3/333=
  9             $-"%'*$,               57/*')')/ '%#()       3;4;<9<9995       7;3/333=
  :             
&)*$-#                57/*')')/ '%#()        ( ##&!! &"       &     *
                                                                                                      # $    *


                      !&
 ' #"#'&!!&!% 
                                                                                                              
   			                                                          	 
  4              
%(&$*                       8</*')')/()       3;398578834       859/833=
  5            '(0)"-%"%+                    8</*')')/()       3;3;839957:       :43/333=
  6                  '0("                  8</*')')/()                         689/<33=
  7        '(0)""*$#                      8</*')')/()       3;3655544:7       883/333=
  8             '0$)	"($#                    8</*')')/()                         833/333=
  9           '0%"'$	"($#                    8</*')')/()       3;3:8377<64       883/333=
  :             '(0'	"($#                    8</*')')/()       3:367:6856<       683/333=
  ;        '0$)#                       8</*')')/()                         783/333=
                                                                                                  #))#$ *


                          !'
	))

                                                                                                              
   			                                                    	 
  4        '(0)#%(*,                  4/",-$/ '%#()     3;35637389:       59:/333=
  5           '(0()'#%+                  4/",-$/ '%#()     3:36<85786<       53;/333=
  6       '(0#%"-%                    4/",-$/ '%#()                       597/333=
  7           '0 %"*('*                  4/",-$/ '%#()     3;3:86979<:       647/333=
  8               '0," ')                4/",-$/ '%#()                       743/333=
  9           '(0,"))                 4/",-$/ '%#()     3;359::;<4<       743/333=
  :              '0""--'%#                4/",-$/ '%#()                       489/333=
  ;            '0-$"%                  4/",-$/ '%#()     3;365:;33;<       68;/333=
  ;           '(/()'$%',                3."+,$. '%#()       2:379664848         4;4.222<
 32        '/#"" ,                 3."+,$. '%#()       2:35:48224;         34;.222<
 33            '/
#%**'"(                 3."+,$. '%#()       2925482;664         543.222<
 34           '/"+"  *$                 3."+,$. '%#()       2:38:468764         73;.222<
 35      '/"(%$*$#,%                    3."+,$. '%#()       2:255833284         725.222<
 36             '/ %'%%)#                3."+,$. '%#()       2:2467229:2         6:2.222<
 37           '(/*!%"%$(%$                 3."+,$. '%#()       2:3:2934425         4:2.222<
 38       '/$)%$,(%#% %#                   3."+,$. '%#()       2:2:8668;25         792.222<
 39           '(/$)"%,                 3."+,$. '%#()       2:387285368         642.222<
 3:         '(/",+%"                 3."+,$. '%#()       2:24;662526         58:.222<
 3;           '(/#%"+                   3."+,$. '%#()                           46:.222<
 42      '(/()(*+                  3."+,$. '%#()                           363.222<
                                                                                                        8.87:.222<




                           #
! 

                                                                                                              
   			                                                      	 
  3         (%%"*+#*              99.+%')$)'). '%#()         2:394;83;;9      962.222<
  4                   !)&$           99.+%')$)'). '%#()        2:242:5332:2      :52.222<
  5              #(%$)*$              99.+%')$)'). '%#()         2:2;6779933      :97.222<
  6                  ()*($            99.+%')$)'). '%#()         2:2::;27247      572.222<
  7                  ""!$*            99.+%')$)'). '%#()         2:3858;9:66      787.222<
  8    *!*#$)*$*               99.+%')$)'). '%#()         2:246728:35      725.222<
  9                     	+!            99.+%')$)'). '%#()         2:3237;59;6      682.222<
  :                  %#             99.+%')$)'). '%#()         2:2::967247      6;2.222<
  ;                 $ #$)            99.+%')$)'). '%#()         2:298748264      722.222<
 32                  *$,)%'           99.+%')$)'). '%#()         2:37;843925      632.222<
 33                 (% 
,%           99.+%')$)'). '%#()         2:2;33:8886      777.222<
 34             +%"%,,$*'%              99.+%')$)'). '%#()         29287369593      :47.222<
 35                  "$!,           99.+%')$)'). '%#()         2927969947;      8;7.222<
 36              )*%#($             99.+%')$)'). '%#()          2:29258289      762.222<
 37        '!$)*$!$(             99.+%')$)'). '%#()         2:395227:96      522.222<
                                                                                                      :.85:.222<

                              $
 

                                                                                                              
   			                                                      	 
  3    '(((,*!,%(#',                  4."+,$. '%#()        2:3:276;99:      62:.222<
  4      '."*+($,%'$                  4."+,$. '%#()        2:24:;39238      6:2.222<
  5        '(#&"%*$                   4."+,$. '%#()        2:3:2934425      53;.222<
  6          '()$*!#%$,                  4."+,$. '%#()       2:28797362;:      435.222<
  7          '%,,(%"                  4."+,$. '%#()        2:349838:95      3;7.222<
  8           '%(&-* !                 4."+,$. '%#()        2:27682268:      637.222<
  9        '("*%$,!                  4."+,$. '%#()        29284792;72      422.222<
  ;       '(#%"%"#%+$"                    4."+,$. '%#()        2:39678;458      545.222<
 32            '*$'% %,                  4."+,$. '%#()        2:282:9269;      572.222<
 33            ',$%*$                  4."+,$. '%#()        29267335288      628.372<
 34      '+"#% %                   4."+,$. '%#()                         :68.722<
 35     ""#*()&	                    4."+,$. '%#()                         62;.722<
 36           '%$(%$$(",                 4."+,$. '%#()                         68;.922<
 37         ""##*""%                   4."+,$. '%#()                         8;2.722<
 38         '",+%"-#                   4."+,$. '%#()                         562.222<
 39        ""#
(#"'#                  4."+,$. '%#()                         49:.222<
 3:           '(.#%,                   4."+,$. '%#()        292:2;:4:;8      732.222<
 3;              '%"+%                 4."+,$. '%#()        2925:23:725
                                                                                                      8.:75.572<




                             
!"
                                                                                                                  
       			                                                          	 
  3               '(*)-#              37/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:3222674;8       77:/722<
  4           '(!*'#)"$!,$#               37/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:257974838       687/222<
  5          '(!* $-!#"(             37/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:2724:59:2       585/222<
  6               '(-"$)$!               37/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:2589;63:;       867/222<
  7         '!,!*#-               37/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:2888335:2       625/222<
  8              '(	-$"$*,                37/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:2866;36:;       4;9/222<
  9                  '!*$ %$!              37/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:29768422;       562/222<
  :              '--                37/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:34:435922       57:/222<
  ;              '
!!*""               37/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:3::22263;       478/222<
 32                '(& #)$!              37/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:288836;54       642/222<
                                                                                                          6/327/722<




                                         

"
                                                                                                                  
       			                                                      	 
  3                  '*#-!'$             62/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:2574;4767        74/722<
  4                  ')$'((            62/$""*#)-$/'$"()         2:3822;378        79/222<
  5                  ''             62/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:27683;662        ;9/222<
  6               '"	*'"              62/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:2;8:894:9        74/222<
  7             '(	'$# "*             62/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:273399332        66/222<
  8                   ($!!             62/$""*#)-$/'$"()        2:3664;3225        88/722<
                                                                                                            58;/222<


                                
!"
                                                                                                                  
       			                                                      	 
  3                 '*#'*                   73/*')')/'$"()                       34;/722<
  4                  ')%#-                   73/*')')/'$"()     2:2:832:54;       422/222<
  5          '(",!-$                   73/*')')/'$"()                       322/722<
  6                 '(,!
#)                  73/*')')/'$"()     2:35:976;;:       335/222<
  7            '(## (!*                  73/*')')/'$"()                       3:7/722<
  8             ''"*)*#                    73/*')')/'$"()     2:352295225       3:6/722<
  9             '($(!#-) #                 73/*')')/'$"()                       42:/222<
  :                        -
"(                 73/*')')/'$"()                       3:2/222<
  ;                    $(,$)*'$                  73/*')')/'$"()                       492/222<
 32                       *#!!$                 73/*')')/'$"()                       452/222<
 33                ''#("*!                  73/*')')/'$"()                       492/222<
 34                '$-$($("*                   73/*')')/'$"()                       672/222<
 35              '(*"$,#!                    73/*')')/'$"()                       492/222<
 36                 '($" -                   73/*')')/'$"()                       572/222<
 37                   #(!-+$*'                 73/*')')/'$"()                       372/222<
 38                 ',.##                   73/*')')/'$"()                     3/:22/222<
 39               '!)*#!%(                 73/*')')/'$"()                       442/222<
 3:             '#"#
$#($#                   73/*')')/'$"()                       7;2/222<
 3;                        
"*-                73/*')')/'$"()                       452/222<
                                                                                                          # $




                                     
	!#
                                                                                                                  
        			                                                     	 
  3               '(*#'+$*'             39/,$')#)')/'$"()      29284663;;;6      46:/222<
  4       '*"!*,#*!             39/,$')#)')/'$"()       2:359;539:7      867/222<
  5   '!*,"-$,$$!,'               39/,$')#)')/'$"()       2:382:3729;      762/222<
  6                   ''$*#             39/,$')#)')/'$"()       29276469622      582/222<
  7                  '*#$-              39/,$')#)')/'$"()       2:38;467684      5;2/222<
  8              '-#(*"$!             39/,$')#)')/'$"()       2:274:35775      622/222<
  9          &*&#	$"$#            39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(       2:297266;53       692.222<
  :               &' '"            39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(       2:297266;53       492.222<
  ;         &')# #'             39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(       2:297266;53       562.222<
 32                &
,"$'            39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(       2:297266;53       662.222<
 33          &##!$!$$            39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(       2:297266;53       3:7.222<
 34         &,"!$&)#*             39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(       2:297266;53       572.222<
 35             	$*)*)'             39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(       2:3:99863;:       582.222<
 36          )#"*!	&"            39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                         592.222<
 37                 &#,$            39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(       2:2:8873772       522.222<
 38                   ')#           39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                         782.222<
 39              !$&, %,$)#            39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                         682.222<
 3:                !*)            39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                         862.222<
 3;                #!
$#'$#            39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                         662.222<
 42               #,$#,            39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                         782.222<
 43               "$-(*             39.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                         792.222<
                                                                                                     &&'&(


                                 "
""
                                                                                                            
   			                                                    	 
  3           &(&!,*$!             6:.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(     2:39325348;       485.222<
  4               &&,	*!             6:.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(     2:289:6:2;4       7:2.222<
  5              &#)#)               6:.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(     2927;245289       39;.722<
  6      &'$-*!$#$ ,               6:.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       742.222<
  7         &!*$!)#,               6:.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(     2:282533:83       393.222<
  8           &')%$%!)'              6:.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(     2:282533:89        :8.722<
  9               &#,")               6:.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(     2:27542;9:5       722.222<
  :        &',#*)&'(#              6:.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(     2:3882595:9       595.222<
  ;         &&,//+)*!              6:.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(     2:297757554       623.222<
 32           &'''(!$!             6:.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(     2:374246:38       3:7.222<
                                                                                                    ! #'(




                            #
&# '$' #  
                                                                                                            
   			                                                    	 
  3            &'#'#           337.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2928:29;642       645.222<
  4           &''&)'(          337.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2:364887747       832.;22<
  5        &'$!) $&$-           337.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2:28:668456       434.222<
  6           &%!")            337.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2:282824962       542.222<
  7      &''),!$&)#)*$#           337.$"")#(,$.&$"'(                          ;82.222<
  8            &)#,#'!,          337.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        29252368252       322.222<
  9         &'$)%&$*$!$             337.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        29274353:92       4;4.722<
  :        &)#$,#$#!            337.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2:37833:6;9       59;.222<
  ;       &'),!)#)$,           337.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2:2755896:;       975.222<
 32                &'!$*$$           337.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2:3:::33239       458.222<
 33          &)#'$"$)"            337.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2:24;5545;4       582.722<
                                                                                                    "$"$'(

                                 $

 &
                                                                                                            
   			                                                    	 
  3        &/!)*$#$#,            74.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        292796994:2       344.222<
  4           &'/! ')$,        74.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2:2;:267:9;        85.722<
  5        &'/	&"&()         74.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2:259339853        56.722<
  6       &'/$'!)*$#           74.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2:333:6;747       558.222<
  7            &'/",#)&$          74.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2:35;62;287        6:.722<
  8         &'/!-(!,)        74.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2925;62;287        84.222<
  9            &/
$#'$#
"'          74.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        292887:3933        94.222<
  :           &/*$!$,$''           74.$"")#(,$.&$"'(        2:2;:77:892        6;.722<
                                                                                                      %&&(
                                       !&

                                                                                                                 
   			                                                         	 
  0          $%,"             6+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7061631364        6/+///9
  1             $%,&'!
$%            6+"   '!&)"+$"     %&                        22+4//9
  2      $%,"%!! ')             6+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /6/43/64/11        75+///9
  3         $,)"(               6+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7/756451/8       007+///9
  4        $%,"%'! "                 6+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /705/487641        5/+///9
  5               $,)!)'             6+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7075436533        58+4//9
  6       $,"""&'!              6+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /6/78455200        5/+///9
                                                                                                           #(&)


                            !''!($"'%  %
                                                                                                                 
   			                                                         	 
  0               *!%&              46+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /6/33046/62        56+///9
  1                     '             46+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7/8521/338        37+///9
  2             %)!'              46+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7/17875/18        56+///9
  3              & ")"              46+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7/8053/476        50+///9
  4                   '$' '              46+"   '!&)"+$"     %&                        45+///9
  5             $"("!)               46+"   '!&)"+$"     %&                        67+///9
  6                	'!)               46+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7057475285        47+///9
  7             ("(("                 46+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7/18302135       0/2+///9
  8               !' '%                46+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7/5/142/83       000+2//9
 0/                  ) )              46+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7015121436        44+///9
                                                                                                           &#")


                                     !(
	 # 

                                                                                                                 
   			                                                         	 
  0           $%,"'!$&             05+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7/56//2868       2//+///9
  1           $,!'"('               05+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7078/23142       3//+///9
  2             $%,	"#%%)              05+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7/77664880       020+///9
  3             '%!    !'              05+"   '!&)"+$"     %&     /7076035355       14/+///9
  4            !#'")!")             05+"   '!&)"+$"     %&                       434+///9
                                                                                                          %!%)


                              "'&$'(%( ! 
                                                                                                                 
   			                                                         	 
  0              $%,(
)"                  20+()!+$"   %&     /7/25/77804       537+///9
  1            $%,$	%%!                   20+()!+$"   %&     /7/25246638       643+///9
  2          $%,&!" %                   20+()!+$"   %&     /7/12825/13     0+/57+///9
  3        $,"'!!("!                    20+()!+$"   %&     /70726472/5       172+4//9
  4              $,"$&"                  20+()!+$"   %&     /7/68383807       337+///9
  5        $%,"$"' ",                   20+()!+$"   %&     /7/55442335       478+///9
  6                    '$("                 20+()!+$"   %&     /7/65158755       324+///9
  7                	%%!                     20+()!+$"   %&     /7/24786732       88/+///9
  8              !)	                      20+()!+$"   %&     /7051773436       764+///9
 0/                "&'&                   20+()!+$"   %&     /6/2051/24/       684+///9
 00                   
 '                  20+()!+$"   %&     /70//22/050       674+///9
 01                 "$
"                    20+()!+$"   %&     /6/0/07/542     0+/14+///9
                                                                                                         '%($$)

                                      " 

     (

                                                                                                                 
   			                                                         	 
  0             ' """              25+"     '!&)"+$" %&        /7/82402512       254+///9
  3       ''.$!)+!'          47-$"")#(,$-&$"'(         192682:31:5        2:6-111;
  4           ''.&'(##        47-$"")#(,$-&$"'(         1816332194:        271-111;
  5            &.
$'%!)%          47-$"")#(,$-&$"'(         192983:8391        4:1-111;
  6        &.$!$"$#) $$             47-$"")#(,$-&$"'(         19137645843        361-111;
  7          &.$'$!            47-$"")#(,$-&$"'(         19272374:93        4::-111;
                                                                                                       "(&*!!!+

                              $#
	!)!&"'&&%'$"")
                                                                                                              
   			                                                      	 
  2       !)+')#()#              5-$"")#(,$-&$"'(         19275416111        45-111;
  3                  !)")!           5-$"")#(,$-&$"'(         19163:85963       653-111;
  4             )&"               5-$"")#(,$-&$"'(         1916847:562       461-111;
  5                 	&'!! #          5-$"")#(,$-&$"'(         181:6159953       23:-111;
  6            &'.##*            5-$"")#(,$-&$"'(         192422:2338       411-111;
  7            &. "
"$             5-$"")#(,$-&$"'(         192444855:5       456-111;
                                                                                                      "(!!!!!+

                              $$
!)"&)"&)'"#"%!
                                                                                                              
   			                                                      	 
  2          &'.) , #!                 23-!+,!#-&$"'(     19141564992       821-111;
  3           &.) "$#)#                 23-!+,!#-&$"'(     19272347445       721-111;
  4            &.	$+)	&"                23-!+,!#-&$"'(     18167456244       671-111;
  5           &'.$!"               23-!+,!#-&$"'(     192341:4821       491-111;
                                                                                                      ##'!!!!+

                       $%



!)!)'*''"%%""$
                                                                                                              
   			                                                      	 
  2         !+')#$"$!                  21-!+,#-&$"'(      19139467578       551-111;
  3             )#,	 )$"$!                 21-!+,#-&$"'(      1916334684:       861-111;
  4       ()#,($"$+$                   21-!+,#-&$"'(      18192451128       631-111;
  5           "!,#)#,"                21-!+,#-&$"'(      19239324811       751-111;
  6                  !'$#$               21-!+,#-&$"'(      1913:815842       821-111;
  7                )#,$&                21-!+,#-&$"'(      19139484972       681-111;
  8           &'.!!$"$&                21-!+,#-&$"'(      1929652:594       7:4-111;
  9            $#'$)!&#'               21-!+,#-&$"'(      192995211:6       425-111;
  :                 !#($#&"               21-!+,#-&$"'(      1913351:856       498-111;
 21             $'')#"!,$                 21-!+,#-&$"'(      1925386:398       447-111;
                                                                                                      &$'!!!!+


                       $&



!)!&")""'(#""&
                                                                                                              
   			                                                      	 
  2          &.(&""#)!               23-)&(&(-&$"'(       19284861:67       451-111;
  3      &'.!).&$!#             23-)&(&(-&$"'(       19241899462       545-111;
  4       "$!+!$)# )#                23-)&(&(-&$"'(       191:59495:5       25:-111;
  5            &'.'              23-)&(&(-&$"'(                         496-111;
  6          $!$"$#$+!                23-)&(&(-&$"'(       19196:96536       577-111;
  7         &.!$&)#!#($&             23-)&(&(-&$"'(       192768:6546        81-111;
                                                                                                      ")%%!!!+


                              $'	

!)!$("&)"!!"!*

                                                                                                              
   			                                                      	 
  2             &. ",#!                        32-!+,#-&$"'(      191447222173      577-111;
  3       &.'),"$"                          32-!+,#-&$"'(       19173746466      232-111;
  4         ''#,!                        32-!+,#-&$"'(       1923872798:      5:7-111;
  5      &'(& &$)'                       32-!+,#-&$"'(                        522-111;
  6        &.&""!$!                        32-!+,#-&$"'(       19294244546      676-111;
  9             (0+"#"                      54/",-$/ (%#)*         3;38;4:6<<5       643/333=
  :        (0-%#%$*(!                     54/",-$/ (%#)*         3;3:8868665       738/333=
  ;            (0%((%"                      54/",-$/ (%#)*         3;3889<758;       853/333=
  <             )%"                      54/",-$/ (%#)*         3;363686;84       7<;/333=
 43             +")"#!+                       54/",-$/ (%#)*         3;3:633:356       7<;/333=
 44                 )"*)+                      54/",-$/ (%#)*         3;45773:66;       7<;/333=
 45              +$(#+$-                       54/",-$/ (%#)*        3;438496<3<7       7<;/333=
                                                                                                    $!'%)




                          "&	

&'$!#& &$ '
                                                                                                               
   			                                                           	 
  4            (0"++)-%          9/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*          3;4<4<:5:53       645/333=
  5             (0*+$ ..          9/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*          3:374977;8<       638/333=
  6   (0&&
%$)%$)#%$            9/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*                              7:3/333=
  7             ()0	-$"))$         9/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*           3;463393::         84;/833=
  8             ()0(-$)            9/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*          3:3748733::         :53/333=
  9            (0!$,")'           9/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*          3;4;;;<3394         63;/;33=
                                                                                                         !%"#")



                                         "'

 !(
                                                                                                               
   			                                                           	 
  4        +!,+,$,	)%#              4:/!$-%#*(*/ (%#)*        3;355665468       735/333=
  5                 #+"            4:/!$-%#*(*/ (%#)*        3;3<93<6445       933/333=
  6             (0+!             4:/!$-%#*(*/ (%#)*        3:38;756347       653/333=
  7           ()0*%((%#)           4:/!$-%#*(*/ (%#)*        3;4759:;6:;       438/333=
  8         (0))-!*(            4:/!$-%#*(*/ (%#)*        3;43<935:37       593/333=
  9                 (*(+            4:/!$-%#*(*/ (%#)*        3;466:86954       483/333=
                                                                                                       4/;6:/333=




                           "('!!$%&!$& "
                                                                                                               
   			                                                           	 
  4               %+$*+$          434/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*           3;395933766       7:</333=
  5               "-#        434/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*           3;38<8387;;       559/333=
  6              $+)$         434/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*           3:36<976;94       853/333=
  7             #+"-$#"%          434/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*           3;49<5<8766       733/333=
  8                    
%#%$        434/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*             3;46;4<73       546/333=
  9        ()%+$ %%+$          434/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*           3;39<;4:4<9       5;3/333=
  :           (0%$"$          434/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*           3:36<8336<4       533/333=
  ;                 +$-	%!%         434/%##+$*-%/ (%#)*           3;49<5<8766       733/333=
                                                                                                       5/:4;/333=

                                #
 !$
                                                                                                               
   			                                                           	 
  4             ()0# #+               ;</",-"$/ (%#)*                        933/333=
  5                (0#(%               ;</",-"$/ (%#)*                        933/333=
  6              ()0""*+$             ;</",-"$/ (%#)*       3;39<6<;9<9      983/333=
  7            (0%$$%!$               ;</",-"$/ (%#)*                        933/333=
  8   (0"(+$-%##%)+$#                 ;</",-"$/ (%#)*                        933/333=
  9        (0
%$)%$-(%#(                ;</",-"$/ (%#)*       3;35;889758      683/333=
  :            ()0$!+,               ;</",-"$/ (%#)*       3;3;5;79:4:      738/333=
  ;        ()0"+,)+$$-               ;</",-"$/ (%#)*       3;3849798:<      783/333=
  <              (0*("*+              ;</",-"$/ (%#)*       3;366<69376      7<3/333=
 43        ()0+(%")
+              ;</",-"$/ (%#)*        3;4;;;<5:7      7:3/333=
 44              ()0-% %-              ;</",-"$/ (%#)*       3;353<3967;      454/333=
 45            ()0"!)++-             ;</",-"$/ (%#)*       3;3:63363<:      457/333=
 57            '0!$')#*"              <=/",-"$/ '%#()      =46887;=<<         8;9/444>
 58            '0#%$'*"               <=/",-"$/ '%#()      ;4<<;:<<86         8;</444>
                                                                                                       9/8:4/444>

                          # 
	' $(%! &" ""
                                                                                                             
   			                                                         	 
  5         '0-)*()&           67/%##*$)-%/ '%#()        4<497<98965       948/444>
  6      '(0#")*##             67/%##*$)-%/ '%#()         4<47=69:5=       8=4/444>
  7          '(0!$"-()'          67/%##*$)-%/ '%#()        4<46=4;7;7:       :94/444>
  8          '( %"*,)%-$           67/%##*$)-%/ '%#()        4;49:=:=4:=       :74/444>
  9          '(0%"'$,
-%          67/%##*$)-%/ '%#()        4<4<9;9:867       7=4/444>
  :                  
%,*))*          67/%##*$)-%/ '%#()        4<499568454       684/444>
  ;                *"            67/%##*$)-%/ '%#()        4<4==994;77       864/444>
                                                                                                     7/768/444>

                        #!

'$%& %!"( "#
                                                                                                             
   			                                                         	 
  5              '%(!          79/%##*$)-%/ '%#()        4<4=6;6:;<4       658/444>
  6             	*$'*            79/%##*$)-%/ '%#()        4<5:87774:9       779/444>
  7              #"!*$            79/%##*$)-%/ '%#()                          964/444>
  8          '0!$!*"$"(         79/%##*$)-%/ '%#()        4<469:45=8<       68=/844>
                                                                                                      " '#)

                                 #"	
	
&#"("&(($

                                                                                                             
   			                                                     	 
  5      '("*,'%#
!*%#%"                   8",-$/ '%#()     4;4:6478;6<       5:9/444>
  6           '(! *
!*%#%"                  8",-$/ '%#()                       667/444>
  7             '%''$                  8",-$/ '%#()     4<49<478:57       5<5/444>
  8          '$&)$                  8",-$/ '%#()     4<47789:=<5       ;64/444>
  9         '(*()&$                   8",-$/ '%#()                       849/444>
  :    '("*,%)#
!*%#%"                  8",-$/ '%#()      ;4:6478;6<       59:/444>
                                                                                                      '$)


                                 ##
'!"&'!(% #"
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                            
   			                                                     	           
  5             '%"%#%$+                6;/*')')/ '%#()                         8<4/444>
  6                '-% -              6;/*')')/ '%#()                         8<4/444>
  7   ' *')""', *              6;/*')')/ '%#()     4<469864<6;         9<4/444>
  8       '($-,%#)              6;/*')')/ '%#()     4;49::77;57         679/444>
  9               '""%$              6;/*')')/ '%#()     4<5<6565:75         7:9/444>
  :    '($-*(-%".)             6;/*')')/ '%#()     4<49;=47476         9;4/444>
  ;   '($-%(*#"-%               6;/*')')/ '%#()     4;4;8<9;=8<         744/444>
  <             '$!"$              6;/*')')/ '%#()                         ;44/444>
  =            '!#*!%-                 6;/*')')/ '%#()     4;4<5;5;498         684/444>
 54        '(%##                  6;/*')')/ '%#()                         8<8/444>
 55              "*$$*,                6;/*')')/ '%#()                          ;4/444>
 56              	!#*!%-                 6;/*')')/ '%#()     4;4<5;5;498                11
 57           (%##                  6;/*')')/ '%#()                         8<8/<44>
                                                                                                       8/=<</<44>

                                 #$&$('#!"% #!
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                            
   			                                                     	           
  5           -%#!*$
!*#%"                77/*')')/ '%#()     4;49=98674:         559/:44>
  6                '*(*
"(              77/*')')/ '%#()                         647/444>
  7            '($!  *$               77/*')')/ '%#()                          =4/444>
  2                 #$	!'&            11*&#%#%*#!$%                          22*5..8
  3                 #$!$	$!            11*&#%#%*#!$%                          47*0..8
  4             #$$$ #!            11*&#%#%*#!$%                          50*...8
                                                                                                         #'"#(


                               "$&#! "'' #!
                                                                                                              
    			                                                     	 
  /      #$!#& !$	&!                       1*&#%#%*$%      .6/35.67552       33.*...8
  0                         (                      1*&#%#%*$%      .5.6362.476       1..*...8
  1                         (                       1*&#%#%*$%      .6.131021..       2..*...8
  2                 !$$#!                         1*&#%#%*$%      .6.63631202       03.*...8
  3                 #& '                        1*&#%#%*$%      .6.31120244       26.*...8
  4             (!& #!                        1*&#%#%*$%      .6.66737306       43.*...8
  5              (!	&!!                       1*&#%#%*$%      .5.1.02/63.       25.*...8
  6                   '$! %                       1*&#%#%*$%      .6/54232053       25.*...8
                                                                                                      !#%(




                           "%
&%%$ !"&!&
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                             
    			                                                     	           
  /              #
!$"                 /1*'( *#!*$%     .6/53/.0623         03.*...8
  0           #*& $&'                 /1*'( *#!*$%     .6.1023/7/5         12.*...8
  1            #$	!'&%&                 /1*'( *#!*$%     .6//4544552         170*...8
                                                                                                          760*...8




                            "&
	& $&!!$"
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                             
    			                                                     	           
  /         # &(!'!                /0*&#%#%*#!$%      .6.61/.3.0/         715*...8
  0            #$&               /0*&#%#%*#!$%      .6/54271755         125*...8
  1           ##(!                /0*&#%#%*#!$%                          464*...8
  2           # !(#(               /0*&#%#%*#!$%       .6.34032/61      /*117*...8
  3            #!!(               /0*&#%#%*#!$%       .6/640//437        33.*...8
  4           #!&$ (                /0*&#%#%*#!$%       .6.336/5277        62.*...8
  5           #&'& &$                /0*&#%#%*#!$%       .5.160.7656        714*...8
  6          #(!'!$&(                /0*&#%#%*#!$%                          303*...8
  7         #&'$&                  /0*&#%#%*#!$%       .6.06//4750        5/7*...8
 /.            #!""!                /0*&#%#%*#!$%       .6.0.44.416        510*...8
                                                                                                        5*4//*...8


                   "'	
	& '!!"&&# &# 
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                            
    			                                                     	          
  /            #$ (&&#%&         03!&    %(!*#!$%                 ++             ++
  0               #$ (         03!&    %(!*#!$%       .6.73076672       3./*...8
  1              #!	(!#         03!&    %(!*#!$%       .6.360.000.       347*...8
  2                     #&        03!&    %(!*#!$%       .6.3/217115       24.*...8
  3   #(!           03!&    %(!*#!$%       .6/6/5/1422       6//*...8
  4          #$!$           03!&    %(!*#!$%       .6.01171014       176*...8
  5           # #!&('           03!&    %(!*#!$%       .6.0115./.0       6..*...8
  6              #$$%)          03!&    %(!*#!$%      .6.60722/002       117*...8
  7            #! # (!           03!&    %(!*#!$%       .6.35/.2/12       6..*...8
 /.    #&! )!&'%         03!&    %(!*#!$%       .6.72...151       22/*...8
                                                                                                       #'(
                         2-&

-5-3264-506()('./1)
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                            
'   			                                                      	          ()
  3                %("+#            38#!!("'+#-%#!&'         2:29;8448;;        726-222<
  4              !	&&((             38#!!("'+#-%#!&'                            6;4-222<
  5           %+#"+(             38#!!("'+#-%#!&'                            625-222<
  6            %
#&$# #             38#!!("'+#-%#!&'           29267666785      532-222<
  7            %&+%#(&            38#!!("'+#-%#!&'           2:3885942;:      723-222<
  8           %'%#!# #(           38#!!("'+#-%#!&'           29266762544      792-222<
  9       %(! # +"(! #            38#!!("'+#-%#!&'           2:272443446      376-222<
                                                                                                       4-;56-222<


                                 2.&
('./0)
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                            
'   			                                                      	          ()
  3               %&'"#                        38-(%'%'-&'     292544;9;72        572-222<
  4            	&% #%#                        38-(%'%'-&'     2:277:37676        6:2-222<
  5              %#("+                          38-(%'%'-&'     292484;6222        432-222<
  6         %#"+"!                          38-(%'%'-&'                        822-222<
  7                  #!#                          38-(%'%'-&'       2:2528533:6      572-222<
                                                                                                       3-;;2-222<



                       2/&
(#!*"! !#$('5)
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                             
'   			                                                      	         ()
  3            				                  95(%'%'-%#!&'
  4              
                   95(%'%'-%#!&'       ,2926624489:      7;2-222<
  5               &%## (*                 95(%'%'-%#!&'        2:2;67459::      472-222<
  6                 "# !#                 95(%'%'-%#!&'       ,2:35;274762      838-222<
  7                     #%	&              95(%'%'-%#!&'       ,2:28:367243      342-222<
  8              +!#"                  95(%'%'-%#!&'       ,2:24593436;      852-222<
  9                  '%               95(%'%'-%#!&'       ,2:2:45635:2      349-222<
  :             *(&( !#"                 95(%'%'-%#!&'       ,2:275:33572      654-222<
  ;              +# #("                 95(%'%'-%#!&'                         3;3-222<
 32                   % &
#"               95(%'%'-%#!&'       ,29285:9637;      54:-222<
 33                     !.                95(%'%'-%#!&'       ,2:35;274762      4:8-722<
 34             # +"#("                 95(%'%'-%#!&'       ,2:25798:889      572-222<
 35               &'""+                95(%'%'-%#!&'        2:32827999;      478-222<
 36          #("&+("!                  95(%'%'-%#!&'                         44;-672<
 37                  "!(#                 95(%'%'-%#!&'       ,2:273942923      46:-222<
                                                                                                       1%320%62-7


                                         2/&	
	
('6)
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                             
/   			                                                      	        ()
  3               "#("             32-"+#!'%'-%#!&'                        329-222<
  4                  ).!            32-"+#!'%'-%#!&'        2:2464;3725    496-222<
  5                 '"*(            32-"+#!'%'-%#!&'        2:245729427     722-222<
  6           ("! +#"#"(              32-"+#!'%'-%#!&'        2:2;7892658     722-222<
  7                   "'"            32-"+#!'%'-%#!&'        2:245729427     722-222<
  8             ("+"!             32-"+#!'%'-%#!&'       2:274457795;     533-222<
  9                 (	"%           32-"+#!'%'-%#!&'        2:245729427     4;6-822<
  :               	#*('"             32-"+#!'%'-%#!&'        2:245729427     722-222<
  ;            ""!             32-"+#!'%'-%#!&'        2:349838:9;     6;8-372<
 32             !&!(%             32-"+#!'%'-%#!&'                        722-222<
 55             "*')$"         54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()       4<4;9:746==       944/444>
 56                ,%)$"         54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()       4<47694;649       944/444>
 57               %&#*'           54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()                         944/444>
 58                 %()$"         54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()       4<4=9:;487:       944/444>
 59              )%'	,"%!*$         54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()       4<4=9:;487:       944/444>
 5:                *$*$-          54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()       4<46794;649       944/444>
 5;              $("*,(          54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()                         754/:44>
 5<                  %-$-#%         54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()        4<4=;744<:       9=4/444>
 5=                      %)*!         54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()       4<46794;649       944/444>
 64                    
%(&*"        54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()       4<4=99=7;<9       786/644>
 65                -"+()'!%'%        54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()       4;49=:8:89<       899/444>
 66              	%#)$"          54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()       4<46794;649       944/444>
 67             #%"%'%	,"%!*$           54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()       4<4=9:;487:       944/444>
 68                        *)        54/!$-%#)')/ '%#()                         8<=/444>
                                                                                                    $$&##'


                                        #!



                                                                                                           
                                                                                                           
1   			                                                              
  5             #)%'0                       55/,%')$)'/()      .4<46<;=46<<      8:6/;44>
  6                ))*	'#                       55/,%')$)'/()      .4<5;54<=98=      7:9/444>
  7              #%$% %(('                        55/,%')$)'/()      .4;49:689577      7:=/444>
  8             *!-%"%'*$(%                        55/,%')$)'/()      .4<5::;<6<=5      7<7/844>
  9            '*$)%*$"                        55/,%')$)'/()      .4<5<<;45575      678/444>
  :               &*(%-                         55/,%')$)'/()      .4<4959=6=74      7<7/444>
  ;               *-,!%)                         55/,%')$)'/()      .4;49:;:<457      69;/444>
  <                  "("%-                       55/,%')$)'/()      .4<49<<7;7;;      6;</444>
  =             $-&)$                       55/,%')$)'/()      .4;49:689577      79:/444>
 54            
%(&##$*"                          55/,%')$)'/()      .4<59:494448      7<;/<94>
 55                *)* #                        55/,%')$)'/()      .4<4788586:<      58:/944>
                                                                                                     !$ "#'



                                       #"
                                                                                                           
                                                                                                           
   			                                                    	         
  5                    	!$                8/",-$/ '%#()     .4;474<789<4       7;8/444>
  6                +'"%,%                 8/",-$/ '%#()     .4<4=686=879       789/444>
  7                '-","                  8/",-$/ '%#()     .4<46:87948;       =49/444>
  8                   !
#(                 8/",-$/ '%#()     .4<597978=99       799/444>
  9                 $)$*                 8/",-$/ '%#()     .4;48578:6:4       7;9/444>
  :                 
%(&                  8/",-$/ '%#()     .4<5;<4:5==<       7:8/444>
  ;                 *$)%'                 8/",-$/ '%#()     .4;4994:7;<=       794/444>
  <                    *$ %                 8/",-$/ '%#()     .4<5<48<44;=       7;6/444>
  =              '#	'#                  8/",-$/ '%#()     .4<597978=99       7;;/444>
 54                   *$ 	(!               8/",-$/ '%#()     .4<479;4;4:9       7<9/444>
 55             "#*!'                  8/",-$/ '%#()     .4<49;:87;57       7<5/444>
                                                                                                     "#%!'


                                      ## 
                                                                                                           
                                                                                                           
   			                                                    	         
  5                   )$)!           ;/,%')$)')/ '%#()      .4<49666;9<8      6;4/444>
  6                  #%)             ;/,%')$)')/ '%#()      .4<5875:5==7      799/444>
  7                      
%-	$$ 	         ;/,%')$)')/ '%#()      .4<4;6=8=;4:      869/444>
  8                       $%"
%"         ;/,%')$)')/ '%#()                 .      644/=44>
  9                     %(	'*"          ;/,%')$)')/ '%#()      .4<58675775;      697/444>
  :                 (            ;/,%')$)')/ '%#()                        67=/<44>
  ;           '$(("*,!#            ;/,%')$)')/ '%#()                        664/444>
  :              #'!&,-              9/+#&("(&(/&#!'(       .2:279865935     497/222<
  ;                  ))&             9/+#&("(&(/&#!'(       .2:3:5355296     487/222<
 32                   '"
&''           9/+#&("(&(/&#!'(                        377/9:2<
 33                #!!)               9/+#&("(&(/&#!'(       .2:22762:596     822/222<
 34                !)	''"              9/+#&("(&(/&#!'(       .2:32332638;     487/222<
 35              !!") $$              9/+#&("(&(/&#!'(       .2:2:452;424     34;/722<
                                                                                                      !$#!'&(


                                          #$
	
!
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                            
   			                                                       	       
  3                  #+ "                   :/ +,"/&#!'(     .2:2;3:62992     382/222<
  4                  )'#                    :/ +,"/&#!'(     .2:3:7427;;;      94/222<
  5             )! #)"                    :/ +,"/&#!'(     .2:288853456     562/222<
  6                ) !                    :/ +,"/&#!'(                      322/422<
  7            $,!) !#"                    :/ +,"/&#!'(     .2:258:62579     572/222<
  8                 
#+)&                  :/ +,"/&#!'(     .2:242;2:582     492/222<
  9                   # '&                  :/ +,"/&#!'(     .2925:7;6562     472/222<
                                                                                                      #"  (


                                       #%"
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                            
   			                                                       	       
  3             "#)"                6/+#&("(&(/&#!'(       .2:2:6632964     362/222<
  4                )"(#               6/+#&("(&(/&#!'(                        347/822<
  5                 '%!#               6/+#&("(&(/&#!'(                        372/222<
  6           ,#!'",                6/+#&("(&(/&#!'(                         :7/822<
  7              +#"&"               6/+#&("(&(/&#!'(                        422/222<
  8                    !(              6/+#&("(&(/&#!'(       .2:344372;57     49:/222<
  9            '!#""                6/+#&("(&(/&#!'(       .2927752693;     429/222<
  :               )" #"'#"               6/+#&("(&(/&#!'(       .2:2::;2:783      89/222<
                                                                                                       #! (


                                      #&#
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                            
   			                                                       	       
  3             )'"()"                  68/)&(&(/&#!'(                       ;22/222<
  4                       ",               68/)&(&(/&#!'(                       :58/722<
  5            ,#""+#!)                   68/)&(&(/&#!'(      .29285955423     97;/222<
  6                 #'!&,                 68/)&(&(/&#!'(      .2:3766:;:4:     922/222<
  7                   ' !"(                68/)&(&(/&#!'(                 .     844/222<
  8                  )(, $               68/)&(&(/&#!'(                       392/222<
  9             " )+&                  68/)&(&(/&#!'(                       794/222<
  :                  "&!)                 68/)&(&(/&#!'(                     3/722/222<
  ;                 #,"(+                 68/)&(&(/&#!'(                       822/222<
 32              -(!)#                 68/)&(&(/&#!'(                       596/722<
 33                 , *'(&#"               68/)&(&(/&#!'(      .2:2458:79;9     ;22/222<
 34           ""&)+)                  68/)&(&(/&#!'(      .2:28;572:65     572/222<
 35                    &)-              68/)&(&(/&#!'(                       462/222<
 36                    #!               68/)&(&(/&#!'(                       385/222<
 37                   ,,               68/)&(&(/&#!'(                       572/222<
                                                                                                      '!%(


                                        #'	
$
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                            
   			                                                       	       
  6               %(	$,!           671,%')$)')1 '%#()     05<5889;8:=5     8951555?
  7                       
%. .         671,%')$)')1 '%#()     05=575<;7586     7671555?
  8                 %$.$**            671,%')$)')1 '%#()     05=579;65=75     7:51555?
  9                    !%'.          671,%')$)')1 '%#()     05<5;:6:===9     77=1555?
  :                    
%')         671,%')$)')1 '%#()     05=5>;<;9=5:     77;1555?
  ;                *$'%%(           671,%')$)')1 '%#()     05<5:<5=85<9     7>51555?
  <                 !%(*$')          671,%')$)')1 '%#()     05<5:=957:::     8851555?
  =                    *)%((           671,%')$)')1 '%#()     05=6=>:77>9:     7=:1555?
                                                                                                  !%


                                      !
"
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        
    			                                                  	       
  6                 #&(%$	"%!           6<1,%')$)')1 '%#()     05=587=95=<<     8;71555?
  7                   *($%(*           6<1,%')$)')1 '%#()    05=5=78=::==;     8=51555?
  8             )'$"!%"          6<1,%')$)')1 '%#()             05=6     7851555?
  9                    ($ %'         6<1,%')$)')1 '%#()     05=57775::87     87>1555?
  :            )%$(%,"            6<1,%')$)')1 '%#()     05=5766<9;:9     7=51555?
  ;                  "#(!           6<1,%')$)')1 '%#()     05=5>>=;:;8<     9=51555?
  <                   ))**$          6<1,%')$)')1 '%#()     05=5787:67;>     7751555?
                                                                                                  #%


                                      !

#
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        
    			                                                  	       
  6                    $,"-          :1%##*$).%1 '%#()      05=5;9;8>6:=     6>:1555?
  7              '	!* #%%           :1%##*$).%1 '%#()      05<5;789857<     76>1555?
  8                  #(*((*          :1%##*$).%1 '%#()      05<59:=:>:5:      >51555?
  9             %"*$"#            :1%##*$).%1 '%#()      05=5===>76>8     6551555?
  :                 '.	&)*          :1%##*$).%1 '%#()      05=688997;9:     7:61=55?
  ;                   %)#*&           :1%##*$).%1 '%#()      05<5;<87=5>;      ;:1555?
  <                //)%%"           :1%##*$).%1 '%#()      05=5;5=>>665     6>:1555?
  =                    *$!
%$           :1%##*$).%1 '%#()      05=588<=857=     7=61:55?
                                                                                                   $" %



                                      !
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        
   			                                                  	       
  6               $!%!'           9;1*')')1 '%#()     05<5;8:58<7<     :6;1:55?
  7                   !*$"!           9;1*')')1 '%#()                      6>=1875?
  8                %"")$          9;1*')')1 '%#()     05=67<;6;=<8     65=1555?
  9                  #!$'#           9;1*')')1 '%#()     05=5<:599>86     7<81555?
  :                 	%,*.%#            9;1*')')1 '%#()                0     7::1555?
  ;              )%'$,%!,*            9;1*')')1 '%#()     05=6:>;=::5;     7551555?
  <                 #(%"'           9;1*')')1 '%#()     05=6<:;6>967     7991555?
  =             %%*!.+%*'            9;1*')')1 '%#()     05=6=;>:;>;5     97>1555?
                                                                                                   #%



                                       ! 
	 
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        
   			                                                  	       
  6          *##*')"            :<1,%')$)')1 '%#()                      8551555?
  7          '2")*$ .%,          :<1,%')$)')1 '%#()      05=5;;<:;67>    7851555?
  8                 *($          :<1,%')$)')1 '%#()      05<58785665:    7=81555?
  9                 ')&&         :<1,%')$)')1 '%#()      05=5=;56=:>:    9551555?
  :                 *$$ %'         :<1,%')$)')1 '%#()      05=5>:896<7=    7=51555?
  7                  &#"("          68-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'      ,19275445:45     3:1-111;
  8               #($#""            68-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'      ,19131793661     441-111;
  9               '# #+
"(!("          68-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'      ,19296686362     541-111;
  :                 !&!           68-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'      ,18122279628     511-111;
 21              	"""#+           68-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'      ,19139387155     416-111;
                                                                                                    '&(,$$$.



                     *( 
	!&(
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
   			                                                    	       
  2          (*(!               77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'     ,1916::5:833     661-111;
  3                   #!(             77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'                ,     37:-911;
  4           !%#&
"#"              77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'     ,181364:6933     365-111;
  5            '*(*(!                77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'     ,19189762969     482-111;
  6                   +#+'#%#             77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'     ,19178275614     697-111;
  7                  ! # (            77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'     ,19298237333     588-111;
  8                '!!"(               77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'     ,19287732:71     44:-711;
  9            &#!#(!#+               77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'                      311-111;
  :                 ("#+              77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'     ,191::9:5655     336-111;
 21               +#%'"&              77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'     ,19299921972     321-111;
 22                !*%"              77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'     ,1916:247838     371-111;
 23             %& #! #              77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'       8163724484     467-111;
 24          % *##!#               77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'       9212:75191     373-111;
 25           %&
#!!(               77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'       919:8865:6     361-111;
 26          %&!# # ("#              77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'       918:778133     791-111;
 27                 %&(              77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'       8142668385     641-111;
 28               %&('#&&              77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'       8155711399     378-111;
 29             %("!"#               77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'                      617-111;
 2:              %!.!(             77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'       9136136261     552-111;
 31                 % #$("             77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'       817948437:     421-111;
 32             % #$#'!              77-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'       925:5:4589     4:1-111;
                                                                                                    '+(&($$.



                                        *)

&)
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
   			                                                    	       
  2                 
#*(
&!              25-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'      1913:7874:3     2:4-411;
  3                    # #              25-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'      19277975711     358-711;
  4                 &&%!              25-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'      181721:2524     351-:81;
  5                ( !#              25-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'      181985:354:     416-511;
  6         "+'("!#*("!                25-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'                      366-:31;
  7                   #&%(+             25-*#%'"'%'-%#!&'      191376:3295     368-811;
                                                                                                    %)$$,-$.



                                      **	

&*
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
   			                                                    	       
  2             # &
'#+           5-#!!("'+#-%#!&'                        561-111;
  3                      ($!(            5-#!!("'+#-%#!&'                        431-111;
  4                  #+"             5-#!!("'+#-%#!&'                        861-111;
  5                      "%#           5-#!!("'+#-%#!&'                        541-111;
  6          ("(!!               5-#!!("'+#-%#!&'                        561-111;
  7                     +#!(           5-#!!("'+#-%#!&'                        431-111;
  8                    
*()#(%           5-#!!("'+#-%#!&'                        671-111;
  9                   ( +'*           5-#!!("'+#-%#!&'                        431-111;
  :                (!"#+#&             5-#!!("'+#-%#!&'                        811-111;
 21                  %
%!          5-#!!("'+#-%#!&'                        456-111;
                                                                                                    (*()$$$.
                                      %&
	!&
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                      
   			                                                     	           
  3                 ("!&%(             45.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:273::553;     752.222<
  4                  '+"            45.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:288;98;;;     94:.222<
  5                 ("+"(%#             45.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:274237888     74;.222<
  6                +("	"'             45.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:38537:86;     985.222<
  7             !#*#  +               45.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:29;926589     977.222<
  8                (*"	!#              45.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:2:3898523     997.222<
  9               !#'#&#+               45.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:32;8;4:99     74;.222<
  :               (*'#&"
("              45.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:2827957;2     ::7.222<
  ;                   "+!              45.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'       2:2868563:6     :54.222<
 32              (%("#&"             45.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'                       56:.222<
 33                 #'("("+              45.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2925;392497     892.222<
                                                                                                     &"##)


                                %'	


'""'#%%%$!'
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                      
   			                                                     	           
  3                     #% #%                 4. *+ ".%#!&'      2:255:68887     672.222<
  4             '!%!                  4. *+ ".%#!&'      2:255:68887     572.222<
  5       %#!#*# &#                   4. *+ ".%#!&'     -2:273672:22     742.222<
  6                  #! #                   4. *+ ".%#!&'      -2928442696     32:.222<
  7                 &(#("                   4. *+ ".%#!&'     -2:27885;74;     632.222<
  8                &'%!#)                   4. *+ ".%#!&'      2:255:68887     692.222<
  9                # (&%(                  4. *+ ".%#!&'      2:255:68887     652.222<
  :               ((&'"((+                  4. *+ ".%#!&'     -2:389;5:523     483.722<
  ;                  ,'                 4. *+ ".%#!&'     -2:3563::3;5     429.222<
 32               !!#'#&#                    4. *+ ".%#!&'     -2928678385:     942.222<
 33               &'%"#%(                  4. *+ ".%#!&'     /2:255:68887     452.222<
                                                                                                     # $%$)



                                       %(

!(
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                      
   			                                                     	           
  3                 )#(%("+             3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -292573;3647     572.222<
  4                    ""+"             3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:34:;93;75     557.222<
  5              ("+ #(#              3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:323832646     4;9.222<
  6                &",!(              3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -292:93:;53;     382.222<
  7                    ,&"            3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -292;2923747     572.222<
  8               ""#"'             3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'                       372.222<
  9                    !(              3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'                       542.222<
  :                  &&",            3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:2;674:347     532.222<
  ;             "#((&'$              3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:354823:67     5;2.222<
 32           !#&!+#               3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -29274835595     55:.222<
 33       !#'(%+#("+"""              3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:333:6;9:9     4:2.222<
 34                      	#+!            3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'                 -     477.522<
 35                  &'%	!"(            3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:384634;53     4;4.222<
 36                 ! ("            3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'      -2:29589977:     57:.222<
 37         ("++#&("!#                 3:.*#%'"'%'.%#!&'                       552.222<
                                                                                                     #$ $")



                                         &
"
                                                                                                           
                                                                                                       
    			                                                     	           
  3                       !!!)            44.)&(&(.&$"'(      -2:254;858::     524.222<
  4                   &")&               44.)&(&(.&$"'(       -292672;24;     4:6.222<
  5                 	$", )               44.)&(&(.&$"'(      -2:36::57946     4:2.222<
  6                     &+	*)              44.)&(&(.&$"'(                       38;.:22<
  7            	""))$$                 44.)&(&(.&$"'(      -2:255977;;5     67:.222<
  8                ##,)                44.)&(&(.&$"'(      -2:2::;7;74:     522.222<
  9                  )$'"$'               44.)&(&(.&$"'(                       432.222<
  :                 ' #               44.)&(&(.&$"'(      -2:3436827:9     6;3.222<
  ;                  $)#*!               44.)&(&(.&$"'(                 -     692.222<
 32               )#($!#+               44.)&(&(.&$"'(      -2:3:84395:7     53:.222<
                                                                                                      "!'!')



                                          & 

" 
                                                                                                           
                                                                                                       
   			                                                      	           
  3                     $
"'                  9.!*+#.&$"'(                      5;2.222<
  4                     (                9.!*+#.&$"'(     -2925;7825;3     725.222<
  5                       !'$#	                9.!*+#.&$"'(     -2:2:73242;5     578.222<
  6                 ) *)                   9.!*+#.&$"'(     -2:22;46;66:     53:.222<
  7                !)*$#$"'                  9.!*+#.&$"'(     -2:2467553::     622.222<
  8                      )#!*!                9.!*+#.&$"'(     -2:278:;5663     434.222<
                                                                                                      ! &()



                                         &!

"!
                                                                                                           
                                                                                                       
    			                                                     	           
  3             ""#)!                4.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -2927873;;98     6;3.222<
  4           (%#&'"$!)*               4.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                 -     432.222<
  5                 
$#'$#!               4.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -2:2458:4::3     627.222<
  6                   
%(              4.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -2:28:9949:4     34;.722<
  7                #!!!              4.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                 -     3:;.;72<
  8               #$")!               4.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -2:3247596;9     357.222<
  9                    )#)!               4.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -2:257427784     535.222<
  :                    !) $!              4.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -2:24865;825     696.222<
  ;         &/""#)!                4.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(       292:;855945     552.222<
                                                                                                      !%&&#$)



                                        &"
""
                                                                                                           
                                                                                                       
    			                                                     	           
  3                   
$#!"$              38.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(
  4                    #&(            38.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       622.222<
  5                 #!"$')!             38.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       577.222<
  6              &$"''
$#'$#              38.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -2:249:24444     77:.222<
  7                          "             38.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       44:.922<
  8                       "//             38.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       442.222<
  9                  +$!()#             38.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -2:277984364     727.222<
  :                     
$!"$#            38.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -2:3:6924:58     4;9.222<
  ;                !''##$#             38.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       4;7.222<
 32             $!#+*#               38.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       472.222<
                                                                                                      " '&)
                                        &#"#
                                                                                                              
   			                                                     	 
  3                   '"!%$               3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:3625;23:5       5:2.222<
  4              #%$##$*"                  3:.*')'). '%#()                         642.222<
  5         '!!%$!$#                 3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:3854;9;66       522.222<
  6                  *"%**'                3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:3599597:3       749.222<
  7             '#!$                 3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:3:5354;;4       689.222<
  8                 "#%$*()                3:.*')'). '%#()      -2925822983:       54:.222<
  9                         +)              3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:327:86::5       532.222<
  :               $%"	"#%,%               3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:398844989       535.222<
  ;                   )                3:.*')'). '%#()       -2:3:4899;3       522.222<
 32                    ',%               3:.*')'). '%#()      -29257;2337:       582.222<
 33                     ()'
%$              3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:376::6547       574.222<
 34                 *$')$(                3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:3:24;9467       526.222<
 35       *$#",%#%#%,($                   3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:385857667       579.222<
 36          '!$*#                  3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:2:::;43;5       556.222<
 37               +$+%"                 3:.*')'). '%#()      -2925685923;       565.222<
 38               !$(,*$,                3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:348872332       572.222<
 39                         ((,	"            3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:2::677:76       52;.222<
 3:                '"*$ *               3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:2725275:9       532.222<
 3;                    ($*"               3:.*')'). '%#()      -2:2:2333;47       532.222<
 42                   
%$%'               3:.*')'). '%#()      -2925;7;6237       546.222<
                                                                                                        %((')


                                          &$

"$
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                      
   			                                                     	           
  3                    %(!%'%             36.+%')$)'). '%#()       -2:2795722::       622.222<
  4              ((,%/(#             36.+%')$)'). '%#()       -2:25:33;583       66;.222<
  5                   
%,+*             36.+%')$)'). '%#()       -2:282:;;332       374.722<
  6                  )              36.+%')$)'). '%#()       -29255226428       44;.722<
  7          "*+ *)+%$              36.+%')$)'). '%#()       -29233373977       49:.722<
  8                  %"%*$             36.+%')$)'). '%#()                          3:6.622<
  9                    #%#$*              36.+%')$)'). '%#()       -2:28::25227       334.722<
  :             $(%$"*+)%              36.+%')$)'). '%#()                          377.822<
                                                                                                         (%!)



                                          &%
"%
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                      
   			                                                     	           
  3                  '()'            62.%##*$),%. '%#()                           4;9.222<
  4             +*("%"*+             62.%##*$),%. '%#()        -2:376673629       487.222<
  5               %&($,              62.%##*$),%. '%#()        -2:2935249;3       3::.322<
  6                   
#%,             62.%##*$),%. '%#()                           493.222<
  7                 "
%(&             62.%##*$),%. '%#()                           422.222<
  8                 !#               62.%##*$),%. '%#()        -2:3:269:45;       485.922<
                                                                                                         #'#')



                                        &&	
"&
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                      
   			                                                     	           
  3                   %&',             3:.+%')$)'). '%#()       -2:376679;62      43:.722<
  4                ',%$$               3:.+%')$)'). '%#()       -2:258:55942      567.;22<
  5              *!!,#%*+                3:.+%')$)'). '%#()       -2:37693:486      4::.222<
  6               ""#(%((              3:.+%')$)'). '%#()       -2:285235366      3::.222<
  7                 %($"",             3:.+%')$)'). '%#()       -2:299::9638      35;.222<
  7              
"'$!"$)*            29.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(       -1814915:67     298.111;
  8                      %(&          29.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -19295282868     361.111;
                                                                                                     % %#)



                                       &'"'
                                                                                                         
                                                                                                     
   			                                                    	           
  2                    $')#*          27.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       241.111;
  3                !)###         27.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       236.111;
  4             !)*)*$#$,           27.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       213.111;
  5                "($%)#,          27.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       289.111;
  6                  )#,#)&$         27.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       267.111;
  7                     '()'#         27.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                        :8.611;
                                                                                                      &''$)



                                           &("(
                                                                                                         
                                                                                                     
    			                                                   	           
  2                  " *$              31.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -191451:5922     311.111;
  3                 $')#,"            31.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -19278162249     281.111;
  4             $)##"')#            31.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -19216258284     428.211;
  5                  !))            31.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -192786:1648     215.611;
  6              $)#$))            31.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -1917121:256     533.111;
  7                       $'            31.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       291.611;
  8                 $&$,(           31.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -1927452:651     486.111;
  9                    #!"            31.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       436.911;
  :                  )'(##$!          31.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -1921331:358     475.611;
 21                    #(!'$#          31.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(
                                                                                                    !!$(#)

                                       '


#
                                                                                                         
                                                                                                     
    			                                                   	           
  2                      #)              53.)&(&(.&$"'(     -181661194:3     281.111;
  3              !$*$ &$!               53.)&(&(.&$"'(     -191::8328:9     474.111;
  4              ()#!               53.)&(&(.&$"'(     -191635964:9     236.111;
  5                 &'(#!+             53.)&(&(.&$"'(     -19162197588     316.111;
  6               $#,!'$                53.)&(&(.&$"'(                      29:.431;
  7                $)#()#               53.)&(&(.&$"'(                      211.611;
  8           '$""                  53.)&(&(.&$"'(                      352.311;
                                                                                                     "(#!)

                                       ' 
('
                                                                                                         
                                                                                                     
    			                                                   	           
  2                    $'!          27.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -1913:631324     2:6.111;
  3              
#"!            27.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       311.111;
  4                   &'(##         27.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       321.911;
  5                      '',           27.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       296.811;
  6               )!)#            27.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(      -19164976882     5:4.611;
  7                  *$$,            27.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       58:.611;
  8                     	$*),          27.*$&(#(&(.&$"'(                       5:2.111;
                                                                                                    !!$$$)
                                          '!

#!
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                        
   			                                                       	           
  4                  -#                     6</%##*$),%/()         3;36769;<<8     583/333=
  5                  *!,)%#                    6</%##*$),%/()         3;4398;6;<:     483/333=
  6                  	,%$(%$                    6</%##*$),%/()         3;4:63:4358     583/333=
  7                 &%'%"$                   6</%##*$),%/()         3;4:5<94<<:     883/333=
  8                $(*%"%#%$                    6</%##*$),%/()         3;4395857:6     7:7/333=
  9                      "
%$                   6</%##*$),%/()         3;3;;;;5<<8     783/333=
  :            %'),($,                    6</%##*$),%/()         3;359;76;97     943/333=
  ;          '(0	$*#*$	 *)%"                   6</%##*$),%/()         3;49;468646     556/333=
  <          '(0#"'!$*(                   6</%##*$),%/()         3:3884:3:73     768/333=
 43              %("'$+ *                     6</%##*$),%/()         3;4:48:354;     885/333=
 44                     #%                     6</%##*$),%/()         3;4:48:354;     <63/333=
                                                                                                       #'&#(

                                          '"
#"
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                        
   			                                                       	           
  4             (')*"&                   45/"+,"$/ '%#()     .3;3::56<57<     :4:/333=
  5             &,#" *+%$                    45/"+,"$/ '%#()     .3;48668;868     ;68/333=
  6                %#*$&                    45/"+,"$/ '%#()     .3:365:38795     69</433=
  7                       
"%                 45/"+,"$/ '%#()     .3;3693;;<48     7;3/333=
  8                 '%$,                    45/"+,"$/ '%#()     .3;4;334;<5;     ;78/333=
  9               #'*'*$                     45/"+,"$/ '%#()     .3;3953:5455     57:/333=
  :                      *$
                  45/"+,"$/ '%#()     .3;3;<943543     6<4/333=
  ;               %$,
%(&                     45/"+,"$/ '%#()     .3;465934;78     683/333=
  <                 
*#%!$!                   45/"+,"$/ '%#()     .3;3<84;6<88     ;93/333=
 43                     
	(                 45/"+,"$/ '%#()     .3:3954<9:<3     643/333=
                                                                                                       $## (



                                          '###
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                        
   			                                                       	           
  4                 #%                   45/"+,$/ '%#()      .3;35573<:78     6<4/333=
  5                  ')                  45/"+,$/ '%#()                       583/333=
  6                *)#%)#                 45/"+,$/ '%#()                       458/333=
  7                    ()'#                45/"+,$/ '%#()      .3;4;64:4;3;     433/333=
  8                  	%+*#$*                  45/"+,$/ '%#()      .3;363846974     963/333=
  9                 *$%$,                   45/"+,$/ '%#()                       49;/533=
  :     $*%"*+&%*$,*$,                  45/"+,$/ '%#()      .3;38;55378:     8<</333=
  ;                   #$)                 45/"+,$/ '%#()      .3;395;435;:     633/333=
                                                                                                       !$%"!(


                                       '$
#$
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                        
   			                                                       	           
  4                   	(#"*((              4;/*')')/ '%#()      .3;3<66373::     5<8/333=
  5              !%!%$!$#                 4;/*')')/ '%#()      .3;46::6:8;4     733/333=
  6                      *"+               4;/*')')/ '%#()      .3:3;773;85;     858/333=
  7              )#(+!%$                4;/*')')/ '%#()      .3;46668<555     773/333=
  8                     )%'*!              4;/*')')/ '%#()      .3;36488:84<     6;3/333=
  9        	$%$*$,
#(                4;/*')')/ '%#()      .3;46668<555     8:3/333=
  :                      "#              4;/*')')/ '%#()      .3;395;46348     873/333=
  ;                  *"                4;/*')')/ '%#()                       658/933=
  <                       !"*             4;/*')')/ '%#()      .3;36598<<<6     863/333=
 43                  !*#'*                4;/*')')/ '%#()                       873/333=
 33                 !(               3:/(%'%'/%#!&'     .2:2782872:4     56;/222<
 34                      ,(              3:/(%'%'/%#!&'     .2:244:68282     556/222<
                                                                                                    # &$(


                                         &$

"$
                                                                                                         
                                                                                                     
   			                                                    	           
  3                    
#, #%#           9/#!!("',#/%#!&'       .2:398698;99     4:2/222<
  4              +("-#%#             9/#!!("',#/%#!&'       .29263762299     333/322<
  5                     	#*(#            9/#!!("',#/%#!&'       .2927:8483;9     92:/722<
  6                               9/#!!("',#/%#!&'       .2:345;8;993     722/722<
  7                ,#              9/#!!("',#/%#!&'                        374/522<
  8                   %, #             9/#!!("',#/%#!&'       .2:295847839     577/222<
                                                                                                     %"(



                                       &%	"%
                                                                                                         
                                                                                                     
   			                                                    	           
  3                %#(&)            5/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'      .2:2;5962;9;     533/222<
  4               '!!"(               5/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'      .2:395:852;3     4:2/222<
  5                   "")            5/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'      .2:3533;3449     522/222<
  6                 #!            5/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'      .2:253:;42;7     537/222<
  7                     
#,'#%           5/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'      .29287526866     652/222<
  8               '#%#""             5/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'      .29287526866     452/222<
  9               -*'#%              5/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'      .2:27462833:     522/222<
  :                '!             5/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'      .29275248967     527/222<
                                                                                                     "%(



                                     &&	"&
                                                                                                         
                                                                                                     
   			                                                    	           
  3                  
#)              58/",!'%'/%#!&'      .2:24574:72;     527/222<
  4                , (!               58/",!'%'/%#!&'      .2:29273;839     462/222<
  5                 #&
"&!              58/",!'%'/%#!&'      .2:344373346     427/222<
  6               !!                58/",!'%'/%#!&'      .2:344373346      98/222<
  7              !#%(*'#%               58/",!'%'/%#!&'      .292576766:7     797/372<
  8                #$%#!%              58/",!'%'/%#!&'                 .     355/222<
                                                                                                    #!"#(



                                     &'"'
                                                                                                         
                                                                                                     
   			                                                    	           
  3           ("# ("! ,#             95/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'      .2:377323:36     56:/872<
  4             #!# #&             95/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'      .292:32;5642     3;3/222<
  5                ',*#            95/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'      .2:24995:8;5     522/222<
  6             !"             95/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'      .2:2;546:2::     368/672<
  7               (! (*#              95/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'                       345/822<
  8         "#!&("!              95/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'      .2:36:493;:;     439/222<
  9                  "!            95/*#%'"'%'/%#!&'       29284;33652     432/222<
                                                                                                    #!$%(


                                     '


#
                                                                                                           
                                                                                                       
   			                                                      	           
  0                   
'!$)           06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&
  1                      	!         06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7/72842784     3/7+///9
  2                    %!
""          06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7/72842784      84+///9
  3                    %)         06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7/25710374      84+///9
  4               '!))              06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */707/813/16     47/+///9
  5             "&" #%"!              06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7064645857     38/+///9
  6                   ""'!           06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7055/15063     08/+///9
  7           '(%'!
!%)            06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7/4/600215     108+///9
  8                 )!"%!           06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */705177//51     261+///9
 0/                    "$)"!"           06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */6/21012151     261+///9
 00                      &$'           06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7/25137/35     84/+///9
 01                 $)"!!             06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&                      115+7//9
 02              ') "'!              06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&                      048+4//9
 03                %%! '           06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&                      0//+51/9
 04                     &"!         06+("$&!&$&+$"   %&                      11/+8//9
                                                                                                      !!$%%'


                                           &


"
                                                                                                           
                                                                                                       
   			                                                      	           
  0           %%!)''"            16+("$&!&$&+$"   %&                      074+5//9
  1                      !	"!           16+("$&!&$&+$"   %&                      0//+///9
  2                 "(!&'              16+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7/232//842     064+///9
  3              %'!&"'!               16+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7/232//842     00/+///9
  4                        %          16+("$&!&$&+$"   %&      /70/6/30737     3/7+///9
  5                '"!            16+("$&!&$&+$"   %&      /7/51345161     278+///9
  6           '$")&'%%"$"            16+("$&!&$&+$"   %&      /6/22106022     364+7//9
                                                                                                        46/+5//9


                                        &

"
                                                                                                           
                                                                                                       
   			                                                      	           
  0               %#'#"                                                           */7/2328//62     303+///9
  1              )&" "$              87+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */6/77650/37     37/+///9
  2                        "&'%          87+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */70583/8721     305+///9
  3              "& !)!             87+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7/27000551     207+///9
  4                      )"            87+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */701710265/     278+///9
  5            "'!!("%!               87+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */6/2312430/     3//+///9
  6             $"!'%!             87+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7/52443614     22/+///9
  7                	"!!',            87+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7/2375/204     103+///9
  8            
'!'($!&              87+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7/57025633     305+///9
 0/            !"'%!             87+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */6/21163144     307+///9
 00                	"! "              87+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7/21606433     45/+4//9
 01                %%!"!           87+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7066454362     141+///9
                                                                                                      !#$"'


                                   & 


" 
                                                                                                           
                                                                                                       
   			                                                      	           
  0             '!"$!$!              88+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7038382367     21/+///9
  1                '! '$#)               88+("$&!&$&+$"   %&                      10/+///9
  2                 " "            88+("$&!&$&+$"   %&                      141+5//9
  3                 %$             88+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */7/51276218     204+///9
  4              "))&"                88+("$&!&$&+$"   %&     */6/21/76623     185+///9
  :                      +$"          ==0-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     /4<47<<577=6     7740444>
  ;                  )*("%&           ==0-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     /4<5:6;8==<=     8790444>
  <                   	)("!          ==0-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     /4<4=75<9=76     7740444>
  =                  #+)+$!            ==0-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     /4;4:=96879:     7940444>
 54                  ($*          ==0-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     /4;4<<;59<::     9540444>
                                                                                                  !!"&$(


                                     '"#"
                                                                                                       
                                                                                                   
   			                                                  	           
  5                     &)          550-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     /4<5459:<5=6     7;<0444>
  6                   +&+!.           550-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     /4<5;:6644=8     55;0444>
  7             +$#	!$+           550-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     /4<4<6;89:8:     7<40444>
  8             .%#&%"+%            550-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     /4;46:;474:4     7:=0444>
  9           .$%.           550-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     /4;49<:6:65=     7:50444>
  :                  )!
%$          550-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     /4;4:744;:66     85:0444>
  ;                     %)%           550-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     /4;49;578948     7:;0444>
  <                    .%           550-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     /4<47688=99<     7<50444>
                                                                                                   %$'(


                                      '#	


##
                                                                                                       
                                                                                                   
   			                                                  	           
  5               %+$-"            6=0%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<4:498:<:4     78=0844>
  6              ..#+$.            6=0%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<5<:;76;44     9==0544>
  7                %(($           6=0%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<469<66<<7     6=40444>
  8              -%.$$+            6=0%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<478<7984;     87:0444>
  9                !$%"*%(          6=0%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<46<9595<<     69;0444>
  :               ++)(#             6=0%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<4;<95;474     8==0444>
  ;                "+.#%"           6=0%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<479=;;4<<     9:90444>
  <                (.%""           6=0%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<49<86=;4=     7=:0444>
                                                                                                  !!'#(

                                      '$

#$
                                                                                                       
                                                                                                   
   			                                                  	           
  5                 #%.""&         <70%##+$*.%0 (%#)*                       8;<0;44>
  6                 %"%#%$,          <70%##+$*.%0 (%#)*                       7690444>
  7             +$#%$+*-             <70%##+$*.%0 (%#)*                       7440444>
  8                   #+".%          <70%##+$*.%0 (%#)*                       66<0=44>
  9            (#%"+-.%            <70%##+$*.%0 (%#)*                       79;0=44>
  :                #+"+!-+           <70%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<5<=96:899     8=90444>
  ;                %!%#%+           <70%##+$*.%0 (%#)*                       8==0444>
  <             (1
#+"".          <70%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<49=5=:5<7     8;<0644>
  =             (1.%#           <70%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4;4775<4:84     8<40444>
 54                  -##!            <70%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<5:;:8:876     8;40444>
 55              	")$#*-           <70%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<466=9;4:;     94508:4>
 56                 +$          <70%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<5::644864     8;80<64>
                                                                                                  #&&'&(


                                         '%

#%
                                                                                                       
                                                                                                   
   			                                                  	           
  5               !$.#"&          <90%##+$*.%0 (%#)*                       87=0444>
  6                   .%%'           <90%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<5559=6;=;     86=0444>
  7                  
%
#)           <90%##+$*.%0 (%#)*      /4<47=:=8=97     8690444>
  4                 "!)"           85,"    '!&)",$"    %&                +     328,400:
  5                ""
' "           85,"    '!&)",$"    %&                      333,000:
  6                  $)!$(          85,"    '!&)",$"    %&                      450,500:
  7                  '!)
          85,"    '!&)",$"    %&      +0805944999     431,000:
  8                 '!"#""           85,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08094497201     488,000:
  9                   !&"         85,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08051409443     420,000:
                                                                                                        $! &'


                                      &%
"%
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                        
   			                                                       	           
  1                       ')         37,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +07032376116     420,000:
  2                   (!           37,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08075004931     800,000:
  3                      !
"!         37,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +07032376116     420,000:
  4                   !'	"('          37,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08163130844     550,000:
  5                  "%!         37,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08073044931     600,000:
  6                     ()          37,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08075044931     650,000:
  7                $")&'!          37,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08075044931     700,000:
  8                  ("%!"#           37,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08075044931     600,000:
  9                      "%'!          37,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08075044931     600,000:
 10           '!!!*&           37,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08075044931     570,000:
 11                    '          37,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +07032378116     770,000:
 12                 '!&(            37,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08075044931     650,000:
                                                                                                       $ '


                                          &&

"&
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                        
   			                                                       	           
  1                !)'!)           17,("$&!&$&,$"    %&
  2              	"(''%&#             17,("$&!&$&,$"    %&      +08064298491     475,000:
  3                 %             17,("$&!&$&,$"    %&      +08054811717     340,500:
  4              ")!
"!%"!           17,("$&!&$&,$"    %&      +08039319454     750,000:
  5                 (*           17,("$&!&$&,$"    %&                 +     229,800:
  6             "" #%"!            17,("$&!&$&,$"    %&      +08090554286   3,295,000:
                                                                                                       "& '

                                        #
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                        
   			                                                       	           
  1           ' "%           100,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08181233440      85,000:
  2              ('%"!)            100,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08033597137     140,000:
  3                 '%)"         100,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08127617590      63,760:
  4                    %"!)"          100,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08097958229     152,900:
  5                  ")("          100,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08035849445     200,000:
  6             )&'! &"#          100,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08023712381      61,380:
  7                 (")"          100,"    '!&)",$"    %&     +08071372147     145,800:
                                                                                                         %!%%!'

                                         
#
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                        
   			                                                       	           
  1                   	!!"!&*               70,'$&$&,$"   %&      +08060530369     502,000:
  2                     ""$              70,'$&$&,$"   %&      +07057543233     465,000:
  3             $-&"%%                 70,'$&$&,$"   %&                       340,000:
  4             $-
("                 70,'$&$&,$"   %&      +08091442940     233,500:
  5          $%-!&)! "               70,'$&$&,$"   %&                       200,000:
  6              "($!                70,'$&$&,$"   %&                       365,100:
  7              ! %#!               70-&#%#%-#!$%       ,08156759564     445-000:
  8                    $%&$              70-&#%#%-#!$%                  ,     473-000:
                                                                                                     ! !$(


                                          
$ 
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                      
   			                                                     	           
  1            #!&( &           87-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08053894821     136-500:
  2               !*%#          87-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,07034777226     115-500:
  3                  %!"!         87-!&    %*!-#!$%                       360-000:
  4               !#          87-!&    %*!-#!$%                       158-000:
  5                & !)        87-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,07038957283     239-000:
  6                   !!#%        87-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08103337479     381-000:
  7                    !& !*         87-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08170012608     134-000:
  8          *!& !#&             87-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08179990943     192-000:
  9                   #*+        87-!&    %*!-#!$%                       381-000:
 10                 !$ #!*!         87-!&    %*!-#!$%                        80-000:
 11                !& 	!$"          87-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08033472999     402-000:
 12                #! %(           87-!&    %*!-#!$%                       400-000:
                                                                                                      '%'(


                                      !
$!
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                      
   			                                                     	           
  1              !$             89-(!#%   %#%-#!$%     ,08096696021     295-000:
  2             *!!!$               89-(!#%   %#%-#!$%                ,     381-000:
  3               
               89-(!#%   %#%-#!$%     ,08080096545     340-000:
  4                 *! *             89-(!#%   %#%-#!$%     ,08029873455     378-700:
  5             !*  (!               89-(!#%   %#%-#!$%     ,08050312250      80-000:
  6               $&"!&               89-(!#%   %#%-#!$%     ,07067442615     395-850:
                                                                                                     &%##(


                                      "

$"
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                      
   			                                                     	           
  1                   	           88-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,07028270600     390-200:
  2                *!$$          88-!&    %*!-#!$%                 ,     361-000:
  3               	$!(!#           88-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08089339946     352-000:
  4                %! *
&$         88-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08132248920     263-550:
  5                   *!!!           88-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08155277644     202-500:
  6          &*!!!            88-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08078660325     310-000:
  7              !(            88-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,07069495708     187-400:
                                                                                                      $$$#(


                                          #
$#
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                      
   			                                                     	           
  1               (!*!             25-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08088527048     390-000:
  2                  '$          25-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08069666321     187-000:
  3               *! &            25-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08092282106     550-000:
  4            %(	! "            25-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08065167807     600-000:
  5               $$ &          25-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,07034570274     225-000:
  6                   # &!          25-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08166315003     165-000:
  7                   	!          25-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08062313331     380-000:
  8              !"          25-!&    %*!-#!$%      ,08028921993     350-000:
                                                                                                         ) /+. '''1


                                      ('-!	


#"--$
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                          
"   			                                                         	           #$
  0                     
! !            15!&     %(!+#!$%      */6/42823604     171+///9
  1               &$#%"%             15!&     %(!+#!$%      */7074564850     287+///9
  2                    !            15!&     %(!+#!$%                       11/+0//9
  3                   
!$&!            15!&     %(!+#!$%      */7066/61534     172+///9
  4               &$  &              15!&     %(!+#!$%                       213+///9
  5                     	$           15!&     %(!+#!$%      */7/7/28/810     163+///9
  6                 %!##            15!&     %(!+#!$%      */6/33545673     242+///9
  7                          &           15!&     %(!+#!$%                 *     51/+///9
  8              !("!&              15!&     %(!+#!$%      */7/1207/15/     264+///9
 0/                    	$            15!&     %(!+#!$%      */6/77286040     155+///9
 00              & ( (              15!&     %(!+#!$%      */70266/2//3     235+///9
 01             ! (&'                15!&     %(!+#!$%      */6/2//8/586     017+///9
 02               #! &            15!&     %(!+#!$%       /702/677246     323+///9
 03                 %! &             15!&     %(!+#!$%                       28/+///9
                                                                                                         + -0* (''1


                                           ('.!
#"-.$
                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                
"   			                                                         	        #$
  0                 (!& &             67+!&    %(!+#!$%       */6/7364636/     117+///9
  1                  
!$&             67+!&    %(!+#!$%       */7/25606884     32/+///9
  2            !$!!                67+!&    %(!+#!$%       */7/51662650      58+///9
  3                #!'!              67+!&    %(!+#!$%       */7/424151/6      86+///9
  4             !#$$!&'             67+!&    %(!+#!$%       */70710/7413     318+///9
  5                   (!'!
!             67+!&    %(!+#!$%       */6/46586613      77+///9
                                                                                                         ( *+( '''1


                                          ('/!


#"-/$
                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                
"   			                                                         	        #$
  0                     &"                    21+&#%#+#!$%,       */7/61385023     20/+///9
  1                !$!(                      21+&#%#+#!$%,       */7/27412352     152+/4/9
  2            ! (&(                     21+&#%#+#!$%,       */6/54620462     247+///9
  3                   	!'&!%!                     21+&#%#+#!$%,       */7/70652725     316+///9
  4          &	& &                      21+&#%#+#!$%,       */7/54425/26     084+///9
  5             &!#                      21+&#%#+#!$%,       */7058241755     104+///9
  6               & (                     21+&#%#+#!$%,       */6/41421731     1/8+0//9
                                                                                                         ( 0.. (,'1


                                         ('0!	
#"-0$
                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                
"   			                                                         	        #$
  0                    !&           71+!&    %(!+#!$%       */6/5348/126     154+///9
  1                
!(	&'&              71+!&    %(!+#!$%       */7/738/2283     226+///9
  2                 (!'!              71+!&    %(!+#!$%       */7/8/428220     0/8+///9
  3                  )	             71+!&    %(!+#!$%       */7/55741682     163+///9
  4                	!'& (              71+!&    %(!+#!$%       */7/731436/4     012+///9
  5                  %&             71+!&    %(!+#!$%       */7/55741682     3/4+///9
  6                 	#$(!             71+!&    %(!+#!$%       */7024/21083     2//+///9
                                                                                                         ( /(* '''1
                                          ##"'"
                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                
   			                                                          	       
  2                $%$&        96-"     '!&*"-$"      %&.     ,19277317423     364-111;
  3                 !'
+            96-"     '!&*"-$"      %&.                      423-111;
  4                    '#             96-"     '!&*"-$"      %&.     ,191:468426:      :4-111;
  5                  % *'         96-"     '!&*"-$"      %&.     ,19187745967     311-111;
  6             "&*      !'        96-"     '!&*"-$"      %&.     ,19165847763     221-111;
  7               &$     !'        96-"     '!&*"-$"      %&.                ,     546-111;
  8           %'!!'!            96-"     '!&*"-$"      %&.     ,191714:3223     38:-111;
                                                                                                          2-793-111;


                                             ###
'#
                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                
   			                                                          	       
  2                  &&'!!%           95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&                       543-111;
  3                  
!%*           95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&      ,19276655778      92-111;
  4                    "!*           95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&      ,192767:345:     271-111;
  5             ')' *              95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&       ,1928455838     523-111;
  6                !* !*+             95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&      ,18176953882     611-111;
  7                   ')           95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&                       631-111;
  8          $.!&"!*
!%*           95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&      ,19248327922     23:-111;
  9                    !)"..           95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&                       541-111;
  :                "&!            95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&                       843-111;
 21                  '')'              95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&                       546-111;
 22                        %&!*          95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&                       59:-111;
 23                                      95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&                       789-111;
 24                     $.	            95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&                       8:1-111;
 25                      $."           95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&                       387-111;
 26               $.("            95-"      '!&*"-$"     %&      ,1926::52291     31:-111;
                                                                                                          &$'%"""(


                                         ##$

'$
                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                
   			                                                          	       
  2              !!"!&"!*             34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,19273878522    758-371;
  3                        $	'&       34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,19277:9:385    351-861;
  4                     +"           34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,19246274111    454-111;
  5                   )" #%"!            34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,18179538:11    38:-111;
  6                 ""% "%            34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,1919578:331    22:-261;
  7                      '& +          34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,19285985513    274-111;
  8                 +" $           34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,19178834:45    288-111;
  9                 +          34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,19222245724    224-:11;
  :       $!'"#'%            34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,18141713627    592-161;
 21                 +''            34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,19236868859    262-731;
 22                  "" #%"!           34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&                      287-311;
 23                     '$'"           34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,191465421::     59-111;
 24                      !"%          34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,18141496242    234-931;
 25                    +&!*          34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,18144773878    581-111;
 26                        *          34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,1919578:331    612-811;
 27                                34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,18122374811    323-111;
 28             ')%**"             34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,19296148358    423-111;
 29                    '$)          34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,191468755:2    298-111;
 2:                      $*'          34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,1923551216:    299-111;
 31                      "+!!          34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,191468755:2    279-991;
 32                 )"!*             34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&      ,19234263544    3:1-111;
 33                       )         34-"     '!&*"-$"     %&                      41:-111;
 56                #*(","                56/#!!("',#/%#!&'                        44;/733=
 57              "	(*(               56/#!!("',#/%#!&'       .3;46997;378     8:;/333=
 58              #(*()#(%               56/#!!("',#/%#!&'                        439/883=
 59                -(""               56/#!!("',#/%#!&'       .3:36<39<483     498/333=
 5:                     '''%&            56/#!!("',#/%#!&'       .3;4:589;7:6     449/833=
                                                                                                       "#$"#$&


                                   



#
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                             
   			                                                       	       
  4        !# '("!# #              ;3/#!!("',#/%#!&'         3;3;<49:45;     64:/833=
  5    	 &"! *&("! #             ;3/#!!("',#/%#!&'                         663/333=
  6          * 	%!# #%           ;3/#!!("',#/%#!&'                         576/333=
  7        *# ("! ,#(,            ;3/#!!("',#/%#!&'         3;4;369985;     5;8/333=
  8            (*&# !# # 0            ;3/#!!("',#/%#!&'                         783/333=
  9              "$ (#,"0
#,          ;3/#!!("',#/%#!&'                         873/333=
  :                (*',#           ;3/#!!("',#/%#!&'         3;365784<4:     483/333=
  ;         '# "(# (*$#0             ;3/#!!("',#/%#!&'                         483/333=
  <              (--0           ;3/#!!("',#/%#!&'         3;4933687:8     688/333=
 43            * "# !#'           ;3/#!!("',#/%#!&'                         983/333=
                                                                                                        #!&


                                          

# 
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                             
   			                                                       	       
  4      ("!"  (&("               ;4/#!!("',#%#!&'         3;485374597     5;</833=
  5       # (# '("             ;4/#!!("',#%#!&'         3;4866<64::     655/333=
  6           "(#%",'0             ;4/#!!("',#%#!&'         3;4;34495:<     4<9/833=
  7          	"*!!"(                ;4/#!!("',#%#!&'                         577/333=
  8        ( "'"$             ;4/#!!("',#%#!&'                         548/333=
  9          ' (!# (              ;4/#!!("',#%#!&'         3;35;8<6:<4     5;4/833=
  :            -'	!# ,#0           ;4/#!!("',#%#!&'         3;3<:::75;7     644/333=
  ;              ""(")            ;4/#!!("',#%#!&'         3;35:85:;88   4/983/333=
                                                                                                       !%!&


                                       !
	
#!
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                             
   			                                                       	       
  4                   +*%'"            43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
  5                # (",!               43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
  6              !&(",!               43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
  7                $#*#%'"               43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
  8            ("! ,#%&              43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
  9             "%*(",!                43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
  :                 
!!,"%*               43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
  ;               , )&'%#%#              43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
  <                    
#&$(              43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
 43             (","!               43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
 44                 +*#%'"              43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
 45               ' *#%'"               43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
 46               %#              43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
 47               ,# &"               43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
 48                  #,",!#             43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
 49              "& (*&              43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
 4:      ,!#  !#'!#(               43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
 4;                    ($!'              43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
 4<               ,#              43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
 53                   %&0('            43/",#!'%'/%#!&'                     833/333=
                                                                                                        &"'


                                         #	
$#
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                              
      			                                                     	       
  4            ,#,'$%!            435/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3;3<7453;;5     648/333=
  5              '# %!           435/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3;4;797:5;9     89:/333=
  6             )*'%)$".%%"        435/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3:3965;6985     6;9/333=
  7          ,"#%$)*$           435/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3;46:::5;<<     6<</333=
  8              
&.#%$.*(*.         435/%##*$).%/ '%#()                         753/333=
  9              "#*%*$         435/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3;4:;537;93     5<</333=
  :             #(%$$)$"!(        435/%##*$).%/ '%#()                         943/333=
  ;            +
'("#"!$        435/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3;46<:49;87     74</833=
                                                                                                         !""'


                                              $

$$
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                              
     			                                                      	       
  4          (*$."*,(*$"             9/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3:377;86;;5     5;</333=
  5           %,'"%!*#              9/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3;35573<:78     6;6/333=
  6                    *!,*#             9/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3;3;4975355     6<7/533=
  7  -)%$')$(&%"*,$              9/%##*$).%/ '%#()                         664/533=
  8               "%*$*.$)00           9/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3:3748733::     587/533=
  9                  *()&'            9/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3;38<36;46:     76;/333=
  :      *"(	*""              9/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3;368<3<46;     863/<33=
  ; "$.%*!,*	*""              9/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3:3748733::     57</493=
  <             !#(%"'#             9/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3;4;684<<58     463/333=
 43       
(0$!%'$"            9/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3:38;934384     6;8/333=
                                                                                                          %!##'


                                         %

$%
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                              
      			                                                     	       
  4        $#**()#"!*$          436/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3;395<37577     743/333=
  5           ##$*""(($!&%          436/%##*$).%/ '%#()                         693/333=
  6            
'#%"*!.)         436/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3;4;;495795     4:</333=
  7              #('.'$((         436/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3;3975;;774     6:3/333=
  8       "($#*$,%* )          436/%##*$).%/ '%#()                         753/333=
  9       #%%$ .*$#)%'         436/%##*$).%/ '%#()                         763/333=
  :         %#*#"%"#$)          436/%##*$).%/ '%#()                         673/333=
  ;             +'.#          436/%##*$).%/ '%#()                         753/333=
  <              #*''%$         436/%##*$).%/ '%#()         3:359:;;7;;     536/333=
 43        $$$$'#()%.         436/%##*$).%/ '%#()          3:37798:;7     754/333=
                                                                                                         "" '


                                    &$&
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                              
      			                                                     	       
  4                    !' *              47/*')')/ '%#()0      3;4664:6548    6:7/493=
  5                      )+$$.               47/*')')/ '%#()0      3;3;943;65<    69;/333=
  6                 #%$,%$                47/*')')/ '%#()0      3;3:85;95:;    6:6/333=
  7                       *$""%              47/*')')/ '%#()0      3;4::993<84    693/333=
  8                      %"')$(              47/*')')/ '%#()0      3;463385443    76;/333=
  9                     %,*                47/*')')/ '%#()0      3;393;<<443    783/333=
  :               '$)%'"*             47/*')')/ '%#()0      3;435:;9:46    79:/333=
  ;                  #,$!               47/*')')/'$"()0      3;373;73848     795/333=
  <                   -!()*(              47/*')')/'$"()0      3;3;5;5<453     793/333=
 43              $#-"$*,                 47/*')')/'$"()0      3:38758:733     6<8/333=
 44             *#-)"#               47/*')')/'$"()0      3;3;<5<<4;8     798/333=
                                                                                                     #% ! %'

                                 !

	&
                                                                                                           
                                                                                                           
   			                                                     	       
  4            *($-*'%-                 :7/*'()')/'$"()       3:369;54;39     664/333=
  5              !*'$!#               :7/*'()')/'$"()                       833/333=
  6                      $.	 -              :7/*'()')/'$"()                       953/333=
  7             ((#*()"                :7/*'()')/'$"()       3;38<7;35<9     6<8/333=
  8                #)#'"               :7/*'()')/'$"()                       5<3/333=
  9            (')** '               :7/*'()')/'$"()                       9;3/333=
  :                  *!*')               :7/*'()')/'$"()                       8;3/333=
  ;               &$. $ $"                 :7/*'()')/'$"()                       793/333=
  <                 !$$               :7/*'()')/'$"()                       783/333=
                                                                                                     #"%'

                                      ! & 
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                           
    			                                                     	        
  4             $""                      438/$""*#)-$/()/       3:36;8:7474      734/333=
  5            * )!$""                     438/$""*#)-$/()/       3;4;37:<54:      74</333=
  6                 (*(                   438/$""*#)-$/()/       3:386:68669      738/333=
  7                $#( #                   438/$""*#)-$/()/       3;4775;6645      6<9/333=
  8               !%$                   438/$""*#)-$/()/       3:375;3<574      74</333=
  9             #*'#$((                    438/$""*#)-$/()/       3;49<8;44<:      6<</333=
  :                   !$*#0	                 438/$""*#)-$/()/       3:35895<579      6;9/333=
                                                                                                     !&!$'


                                 !!
	
&!
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                           
    			                                                     	         
  4       $#!'.$,#            8/$""*#)-$/'$"()                         558/933=
  5         $)$'$''          8/$""*#)-$/'$"()                         785/633=
  6             	$*# *(           8/$""*#)-$/'$"()                         533/333=
  7          ,!
')($!          8/$""*#)-$/'$"()         3;356736<<8     783/333=
  8      '$*#'')*'$!           8/$""*#)-$/'$"()                         583/933=
  9       #$-!!"           8/$""*#)-$/'$"()         3;4;:46;8;9     737/333=
  :            " ""              8/$""*#)-$/'$"()                         653/333=
  ;            $')(*#
$#           8/$""*#)-$/'$"()         3:3;:9:<363     :83/333=
  <           ,$	 * ,**!           8/$""*#)-$/'$"()                         753/333=
 43         #(*+*#'* $!            8/$""*#)-$/'$"()         3;3:6:775<4     879/333=
                                                                                                     " #%'

                                 !"&"
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                           
    			                                                     	         
  4     '0$ *#$')#$"(                    66/$""*#)-$/()        3;4;8548336     54</733=
  5          '(0$!#!!$,*'                  66/$""*#)-$/()        3:3446759<3     4;;/333=
  6             '0()*#)                  66/$""*#)-$/()        3;4<44;;4;9     866/433=
  7              '(0"$),                    66/$""*#)-$/()                        433/333=
  8           '(0$(*$*#                    66/$""*#)-$/()         3;3835;8<;6    834/333=
  9           '0!*"$!$"$                     66/$""*#)-$/()         3;35684;489    6<7/433=
  :    '0!*,-$""$(*#"                      66/$""*#)-$/()                        488/333=
  ;             '(0"$!$"$                     66/$""*#)-$/()         3;3588:4;:4    589/833=
  <                    *#!$                    66/$""*#)-$/()         3;484375346    46;/333=
 65                        )*22!&                    881&$$,% +/&1 *+         5=5758<9<6:     9::1555?
                                                                                                           '"(


                                     "

&"
                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                
     			                                                          	        
  6         -&#  &#$$%,#                       91&$$,% +/&1 *+         5=575:9><97     66;1555?
  7        %	) %&##,-/ "$                       91&$$,% +/&1 *+         5=6=8659>=>     6751:55?
  8                  0 ## *+)2	                  91&$$,% +/&1 *+                         6<:1555?
  9        
&#/$  +&) $ +&'                     91&$$,% +/&1 *+         5=5=><8>76=     6:;1555?
  :              #,%!,&#"$ 2                     91&$$,% +/&1 *+         5=58965657=     88>1:55?
  ;           "&# $$%,#,%                       91&$$,% +/&1 *+         5<569;6=<<6     75>1555?
  <        -&%, ,) $ ,/                        91&$$,% +/&1 *+         5=5:9=;>8=6     75:1555?
  =            &, %*#/	%/                     91&$$,% +/&1 *+         5=5<78:<>65     8571555?
  >   " %+,%# /+&*,%$                         91&$$,% +/&1 *+         5<598679877     76:1:55?
 65                      # .2                    91&$$,% +/&1 *+         5<5==<;8;8<     6561555?
                                                                                                          '!'#(

                                       #	&#
                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                
     			                                                          	        
  6                %,*%                          =81&$$,% +/&1 *+                         7::1=55?
  7                       
&%                       =81&$$,% +/&1 *+                         7551555?
  8                    ,%/	&"&                       =81&$$,% +/&1 *+                         8651555?
  9                  $ ,/                         =81&$$,% +/&1 *+                         6::1>=5?
  :               + #&'*,%-#                        =81&$$,% +/&1 *+                         7651555?
  ;                   */&                        =81&$$,% +/&1 *+                         8:51555?
                                                                                                          "&%&(

                                       $&$
                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                
     			                                                          	        
  6         "/&/$ &#-                            851,)+)+1 *+      5=68:<9:9;<    7;:1555?
  7       "%)%/+&#%#                           851,)+)+1 *+      5=588>96=76    7>51555?
  8              )&#,")#                          851,)+)+1 *+      5=5<65;57<7    7:51555?
  9               % ! 
$ ,
 $&                         851,)+)+1 *+      5=57:<6<857    7=:1555?
  :            -#&$ &#                            851,)+)+1 *+      5=65>57<>66    9651555?
  ;           ,%$  )#                            851,)+)+1 *+      5=5<:9;96<=    88:1555?
  <             ! ** ,
 $&                          851,)+)+1 *+                     7<<1555?
  =             	*&#) 0(                          851,)+)+1 *+      5=57;6<<666    7;51555?
  >   +,%&#*,%/&                            851,)+)+1 *+      5=5><8=<>=>    7:<1555?
 65         "/&/$ &#-                            851,)+)+1 *+
                                                                                                           $ '(


                                        %
	&%
                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                
     			                                                          	        
  6              
&%,##$ +&'                661-&)+%+)+1!)&$  *+       5=587667<8:    7981555?
  7                 %#$+%                 661-&)+%+)+1!)&$  *+       5=5:77=8986    ;=71:55?
  8               &#,-#*                661-&)+%+)+1!)&$  *+                      6=<1:55?
  9                      $ ,"/               661-&)+%+)+1!)&$  *+       5=5<><=7=68    7=:1555?
  :                 / *+,	) $               661-&)+%+)+1!)&$  *+       5=6<=5<99<<    7:>1555?
  ;               $,%)*"                  661-&)+%+)+1!)&$  *+       5=6=<>=>65>    6=91555?
  <         #,-$ #)/&                 661-&)+%+)+1!)&$  *+       5<5:;79:688    6;91:55?
  =                   &'%/&)                661-&)+%+)+1!)&$  *+       5=6:;5:5556    79:1555?
  >                ) $	) $                 661-&)+%+)+1!)&$  *+                      7851555?
 65                    $ )+ %*               661-&)+%+)+1!)&$  *+       5=6=<>=<>=6    6=91555?
 66                  
&*'&#&                661-&)+%+)+1!)&$  *+       5<5:;79:688    8>61555?
 45          #%"-"%#!+                 440-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*                     6530833=
 46            "+##%-%-%                   440-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     3;3539<46<4     5550333=
 47                    .%*,$                440-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     3;3:<:;5;46     4890833=
 48                !.(%+)                440-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*                     6830533=
 49                  (%$!+$                 440-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     3:388396;<;     6430333=
                                                                                                       ## #&)

                                    !'''
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                             
    			                                                        	        
  4              *%("+-#               660-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     3;4:3996<8<     57<0333=
  5                   !$#               660-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*                     5330333=
  6               %&%"%	"$                660-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     3:3;73<668<     5830333=
  7                 	"$)+               660-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     3;439<9749:     5930333=
  8                  #%&%%"               660-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     3;3:5944;49     7630333=
  9                     #)+!%               660-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*                     5430333=
  :                  +/$*%(              660-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     3:387353;8;     67<0333=
  ;                   (!%(%               660-%(*$*(*0 (%#)*     3;3949;:<79     6;;0333=
                                                                                                       !""%)


                                 !(
	'(
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                             
    			                                                        	        
  4               /%!+$                440%##+$*.%0 (%#)*       3:39;;93:;9      ;<0833=
  5             "+-)+$$"                440%##+$*.%0 (%#)*       3;3575;387;     5530333=
  6                .$%                440%##+$*.%0 (%#)*       3:396985<4:     7<50333=
  7                   #%*              440%##+$*.%0 (%#)*       3;489<;59:5     7650333=
  8                   *#%"              440%##+$*.%0 (%#)*       3:3869;<::8      :80333=
  9                    "")#+              440%##+$*.%0 (%#)*       3:38<5<:9;3     4<30333=
  :              *"""+-)+$               440%##+$*.%0 (%#)*       3;46;77;48:     64:0333=
  ;                !#.%                 440%##+$*.%0 (%#)*       3:3;7344<59     7580333=
  <                   +$	+)               440%##+$*.%0 (%#)*                       5830933=
 43         "+-)+$*+$                 440%##+$*.%0 (%#)*       3;3;<:6<56;     8730333=
                                                                                                       ""  )


                              "
	

(
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                             
    			                                                        	        
  4              
()"*+$ /'         4360%##+$*.%0 (%#)*        3;3:;;7:78<     43;0333=
  5   .)*$%)#%-+$#              4360%##+$*.%0 (%#)*        3;4;:46;8<3     5780333=
  6     &.#"+-+$#)*(             4360%##+$*.%0 (%#)*        3;469743778     5730333=
  7              $*%"%# %!           4360%##+$*.%0 (%#)*        3:3675943;5      ;30333=
  8           (#+($           4360%##+$*.%0 (%#)*                        5;;0<33=
  9      *+$)#+#*%&             4360%##+$*.%0 (%#)*        3;46883333<     43;0333=
  :        %$++(*+$            4360%##+$*.%0 (%#)*        3;3638877;3      <30333=
  ;         $#%+(+$""%            4360%##+$*.%0 (%#)*        3;35;;89<3<     5770333=
  <         %) %!#%*%"            4360%##+$*.%0 (%#)*        3;36:5;:337     4;70333=
                                                                                                        $'&()

                                        " ( 
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                             
    			                                                        	       
  4    +$)%".)*#%)"-                      439%##+$*.%)*         3;388<<6345    7630333=
  5     $.+#+"#/                      439%##+$*.%)*         3;359<73<34    8;40333=
  6          "#//*"+(#                     439%##+$*.%)*                        5<;0:33=
  7    (%+$%))*                      439%##+$*.%)*         3;4;8453743    7680333=
  8        -")#"(                      439%##+$*.%)*                        6530833=
  9           "+%'.%                      439%##+$*.%)*         3;3:537367;    7950333=
  8          $	"""($%                      217$"")#(+$'(                         389-:11;
  9      !+*$!
'"!!! #                   217$"")#(+$'(         19144818838     596-111;
  :      $+)#+!)*&                     217$"")#(+$'(         19193119268     381-111;
                                                                                                      "$%  )

                                       "!		
(!
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                            
   			                                                        	        
  2              #&#"!$!           218-$"")#(+$-&$"'(        19232751649     2:7-111;
  3     $!!)*')#((*             218-$"")#(+$-&$"'(        19184951:26     321-111;
  4           !!$"$!&+'(           218-$"")#(+$-&$"'(        18175412388     333-111;
  5         #&*!)*')#             218-$"")#(+$-&$"'(        192514:1657     53:-111;
  6     *'$#"("($%              218-$"")#(+$-&$"'(        191:8786719     433-111;
  7        '()'#+"'"$#              218-$"")#(+$-&$"'(                        29:-861;
  8             !!#+(&         218-$"")#(+$-&$"'(                        311-311;
  9            (& &$)'          218-$"")#(+$-&$"'(        191:218:148     518-111;
                                                                                                      ! &$($)


                                   ""("
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                            
   			                                                        	       
  2     "#$'%&$"$'!             216-$"")#(+$-&$"'(                       336-911;
  3         "))'!! #              216-$"")#(+$-&$"'(                       834-461;
  4   !')#") )#"#               216-$"")#(+$-&$"'(                       436-611;
  5   "$$!)*($")!               216-$"")#(+$-&$"'(                       369-311;
  6       +$, !%+"            216-$"")#(+$-&$"'(                       255-111;
  7        $'%$!%$*!             216-$"")#(+$-&$"'(       1916:888337     688-111;
  8          '$!#+''            216-$"")#(+$-&$"'(       1918:131424     53:-111;
                                                                                                      !%'!'$)

                                "#

(#
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                            
   			                                                        	        
  2              &.(&&                    9-)&(&(-&$"'(     19211418511     4:2-111;
  3               &."                     9-)&(&(-&$"'(      191453:342     45:-111;
  4                  &.!$                    9-)&(&(-&$"'(                     399-611;
  5            &. &)#                    9-)&(&(-&$"'(     18142424381     629-111;
  6                   ))'')                    9-)&(&(-&$"'(     191625:7865     393-111;
  7             $'$!                      9-)&(&(-&$"'(                     367-611;
  8             &'.$# )#                     9-)&(&(-&$"'(     181661749:9     421-111;
                                                                                                      !"($)


                               "$	($
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                            
   			                                                        	       
  2                  ")!$&                21-$"")#(+$-&$"'(       18167191546     483-111;
  3               &!$#               21-$"")#(+$-&$"'(       19147285776     471-111;
  4           +# ) *)                  21-$"")#(+$-&$"'(       19274198137     598-111;
  5                  (&%'#               21-$"")#(+$-&$"'(       191::6118:7     4:8-111;
  6                      $#,               21-$"")#(+$-&$"'(                       4:6-111;
  7                 	$%##                 21-$"")#(+$-&$"'(       19171217195     461-111;
  8                ),$&!)                21-$"")#(+$-&$"'(                       4:3-111;
  9              ')!)*$#                 21-$"")#(+$-&$"'(       19185693169     511-111;
  :              $#'&#'               21-$"")#(+$-&$"'(       1914833281:     529-111;
 21                 '#*!                21-$"")#(+$-&$"'(       18167745614     476-111;
 22             $'!# $'!               21-$"")#(+$-&$"'(                       431-111;
                                                                                                      #!$%)
                                     !#&	

!!$
                                                                                                                
                                                                                                               
       			                                                       	       
  0                        $"                      0/7*'$&$&*%&                       5//*///9
  1                    "$ '                      0/7*'$&$&*%&       /7/18720728     36/*///9
  2        '!'#! "'                     0/7*'$&$&*%&       /7/64/07/84     36/*///9
  3                    
 "$'                     0/7*'$&$&*%&       /6/77657731     367*///9
  4                   !$& '                     0/7*'$&$&*%&       /7/13326877     364*///9
                                                                                                         "$)#   *


                                           !#'!)
                                                                                                                
                                                                                                               
        			                                                      	       
  0               $%+'!'#               0/*'$&$&*$" *%&       /7/723011/5    584*64/9
      	
                                                                                                          &)%'% *

                                         !#(

!$(
                                                                                                                
                                                                                                               
       			                                                       	       
  0             $+)")""("+            0/6*'$&$&*$"   *%&     /7/11770373     204*2//9
  1                     '             0/6*'$&$&*$"   *%&                     41/*///9
  2                     $+!%'            0/6*'$&$&*$"   *%&                     31/*///9
  3                      $'           0/6*'$&$&*$"   *%&                     46/*///9
  4                    '%''!            0/6*'$&$&*$"   *%&                     24/*///9
  5                  !")(              0/6*'$&$&*$"   *%&                     51/*///9
  6                       !')           0/6*'$&$&*$"   *%&                     4//*///9
  7              $%+&"#           0/6*'$&$&*$"   *%&                     52/*///9
  8                  %&$'! )"            0/6*'$&$&*$"   *%&                     26/*///9
 0/                    $(             0/6*'$&$&*$"   *%&                     3//*///9
 00                       	"(')             0/6*'$&$&*$"   *%&                     28/*///9
 01                       "%            0/6*'$&$&*$"   *%&                     24/*///9
 02                     
)!           0/6*'$&$&*$"   *%&                     35/*///9
                                                                                                         %()%# *

                                          !#)" 
                                                                                                                
                                                                                                               
       			                                                       	       
            ,,
,,


                                            !$ ""
                                                                                                                
                                                                                                               
       			                                                       	       
            ,,
,,


                              !$!
! "
                                                                                                               
                                                                                                              
       			                                                       	      
            ,,
,,


                                            !$"
! #
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                       
   			                                                    	      
        ))
))


                                      #"
	
 &
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                       
   			                                                    	      
        ))
))


                                     ##
	
    
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                       
   			                                                    	      
        ))
))


                                     #$
	     
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                       
   			                                                    	      
        ))
))


                                     #%


 !%
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                       
   			                                                    	      
        ))
))


                                           #&
 !&
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                       
   			                                                    	      
  -        "(                        5'%"$"$'#$      4,/3--32/-    .-4',,,6
  .          "(#                         5'%"$"$'#$                    //1',,,6
  /              "("                       5'%"$"$'#$                    //-',,,6
  0                 &                      5'%"$"$'#$      4-/235204-    -.4'1,,6
  1           "#(
 #"!                     5'%"$"$'#$      3,1552210-    //4',,,6
  2               "(	                        5'%"$"$'#$                    .0,',,,6
                                                                                                  $($)


                                        #'
 " 
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                       
   			                                                    	      
        ))
))


                                       #( "&
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                       
   			                                                    	      
  -                "#$%                -,/' %$& '#$         4-3-555/./   -,4',,,6
                                                                                                   ')


                                        $
 #&
                                                                                               
                                                                                              
   			                                         	        
        	



                                !
 $
                                                                                               
                                                                                              
   			                                         	        
        	



                                !!
                                                                                               
                                                                                              
   			                                         	        
        	


                                                          !!$"#!!%
                                        		                                !!
  9 '                       3-	 )&#!!)"(+,08052102460            498,000:
 10 "+")                      3-	 )&#!!)"(+,08180962466            598,000:
 11 "# )"(+                  3-	 )&#!!)"(+,08052102460            366,000:
                                                                                 $##%)


                       "	

'!"'&%%&$
                                                                                           
 			                                      	      
   1 )'&)'&(                 4-	 )&#!!)"(+, 08165827798          308,000:
   2 !'#                 4-	 )&#!!)"(+, 08078212458          238,000:
   3 "+&"                   4-	 )&#!!)"(+, 07045940689          353,000:
   4 &($# #                     4-	 )&#!!)"(+, 08102131450          468,000:
   5  !#)*                   4-	 )&#!!)"(+, 08083805840          418,000:
   6 *# ##                   4-	 )&#!!)"(+, 08138456722          417,000:
   7  ''""#                   4-	 )&#!!)"(+, 08026890470          438,000:
   8  (""                    4-	 )&#!!)"(+, 08102131450          388,000:
   9 )"!#*"                 4-	 )&#!!)"(+, 08020954609          418,000:
  10 !#!#*"                  4-	 )&#!!)"(+,'(             224,000:
  11  -!&)
&                  4-	 )&#!!)"(+, 08126244999          185,000:
                                                                                 "'$$)

                         #
'(%!(!$
                                                                                           
 			                                     	       
   1 +#&"'                  6-	 )&#!!)"(+,08097420150           468,000:
   2  )")                         6-	 )&#!!)"(+,08137388478           438,000:
   3 )"+	'                     6-	 )&#!!)"(+,08064495181           398,000:
   4 +#!'                     6-	 )&#!!)"(+,08032068623         1,330,000:
   5 #)"+ #*#                   6-	 )&#!!)"(+,07083382765           216,000:
   6 
#") #*#                     6-	 )&#!!)"(+,08160575234           438,000:
   7                        6-	 )&#!!)"(+,08079420750           370,000:
   8 )()                   6-	 )&#!!)"(+,08057785160           467,000:
   9 	!'"                     6-	 )&#!!)"(+,08062457577           300,000:
  10 ""                    6-	 )&#!!)"(+,08074618749           400,000:
  11 !#"+#)                    6-	 )&#!!)"(+,08029092512           230,000:
  12 !)&)"                   6-	 )&#!!)"(+,08102131450           205,000:
  13  "++")&#                 6-	 )&#!!)"(+,08091186674           215,000:
                                                                                 $#&$)


                       $	


'""# '!#
                                                                                           
 			                                     	       
   1 &'-
"()#%                9-	 )&#!!)"(+,08125259759           435,000:
   2 	                       9-	 )&#!!)"(+,0812131450            598,000:
                                                                                      "")
                        %		
                                                                                      
                                        
   . 
*	             4*%"   %$()-5-003..-3/          2-1)---7
   / 
"* ("(    4*%"   %$()-5-3116.156          0/-)---7
   0 
"#*
"%          4*%"   %$()-5-3116.156          1--)---7
   1 
"*"%%(        4*%"   %$()-5-003..-3/          3--)---7
   2 
"*%(#%(          4*%"   %$()-5-003..-3/          12-)---7
   3 
"* %        4*%"   %$()-5-003..-3/          10-)---7
   4 
"#*        4*%"   %$()-5-003..-3/          0.2)---7
   5 %!$               4*%"   %$()-5-003..-3/          0--)---7
                                                                            "" ()

                   &&# #&&%#(
                                                                                      
                                        
   . & %"#(            5*%"   %$()-5..30615..          045)---7
   / ##(             5*%"   %$()-5-6431/-2.          01-)---7
   0 %                 5*%"   %$()-5-426.6012          0/-)---7
   1 %((              5*%"   %$()-5.2010/256          265)---7
                                                                             %"%)


                     '
&$ '$&"#%
                                                                                      
                                        
   .  $"%              .-*%" %$()-5.3/340-54            405)---7
   / ($%              .-*%" %$()-5-/425.255            1/-)---7
                                                                              $')

                      (&$$"#&!!
                                                                                      
                                        
   .  #(               .3*%" %$()-4-10.40.60            405)---7
   /  "%'# '            .3*%" %$()-5-2332.64             1/-)---7
                                                                              $')


                       ' & % (%!$
                                                                                      
                                        
   . "#%                .1*%" %$()-5.01-204-3            105)---7
   / #                 .1*%" %$()-4-15.043--            115)---7
   0  '%$"                 .1*%" %$()-5.55036544            215)---7
                                                                             #"#)
                      ""

!(!)$&)&$*"
                                                                                        
 			                                  	       
   : ,%"%$ " %$,#/            :<2"
#,) &$$,% +/19A9@B>=9:::           >=A1999C
                                                                                &%)!!!+


                                  "#

                                                                                        
3 			                                   	      56
   : )*2*&&%#,."$         ;1"
#,4)  **+      9A:AB99<>:9          ;B;1999C
   ; )2!'               ;1"
#,4)  **+      9A9;BA==AA@          =9=1999C
   < )2"$#+!,% )%     ;1"
#,4)  **+      9A:AAA<9:9;          <>@1999C
   = )2,"$&%.               ;1"
#,4)  **+      9A9;B:=;@B9          =@>1999C
   > )2,*,&#!               ;1"
#,4)  **+      9A9;B:=:=:>          <<<1999C
   ? )*2& & (               ;1"
#,4)  **+      9A9A9?<9B?>          <=A1999C
   @ )*2")"'&&/             ;1"
#,4)  **+      9A9?>;>:?AB          @:;1999C
   A )2,##$                ;1"
#,4)  **+      9A9>>A<<?>A          =;=1999C
   B )*2-#/% +&)             ;1"
#,4)  **+      9A9<;:=;;A>          <;=1>99C
  :9 )*2 - %%/%" !&         ;1"
#,4)  **+      9A9@@9:;<=<          ;B@1999C
                                                                                  <1B??1>99C


                                   "$	
                                                                                        
3 			                                   	      56
   " )2$	$               :1"
#,4) 1 *+      9A9?9::;=;:          <>>1999C
   # )20
/ ,#&,*        :1"
#,4) 1 *+      9A9<<A@><:;          <?;1999C
   $ )2+%#/#&%             :1"
#,4) 1 *+      9A9<;=@:=B=          ;A?1999C
   % )2 %"&                 :1"
#,4) 1 *+      9A9<<:BB:<:          <=B1999C
   & )*2) !+,".,             :1"
#,4) 1 *+      9A:?=A?><;;          >;=1999C
   ' )*2&*# %*$&+           :1"
#,4) 1 *+      9A:@<B<@@BB          =<>1999C
   ( )*2#&) 0,               :1"
#,4) 1 *+      9@9>:9:;@B9          >;91999C
   ) )2	),%               :1"
#,4) 1 *+      9A:<@===A>B          ?B=1999C
   * )2,%// %+           :1"
#,4) 1 *+      9A9;9?@<AB;          ?9>1999C
  "! )2 ),/ %              :1"
#,4) 1 *+                           =9@1999C
                                                                                  %&$(!!!+

                      "%

!)"#"$"%&!
                                                                                        
 			                                  	       
   : ,,)+.#                :>2"
#,) &$$,% +/19A9;9<<:>?:           =>91999C
   ; & &!&                    :>2"
#,) &$$,% +/19A9AB<==:<=           =@A1999C
   < 
/& &#                :>2"
#,) &$$,% +/19@9<:<::@A=           =?A1999C
                                                                              "$*'!!!+

                                      "&

                                                                                     
                                                                                    
 			                            	             
   2 "'&%(*')           23-"
#*.' - ()   191348247:6            559-111;
   3 
' $*" ,)           23-"
#*.' - ()   18143532215            7:9-111;
   4 *
# (*                23-"
#*.' - ()   192553839:8            557-111;
   5 +             23-"
#*.' - ()   19165198597            5:7-111;
   6  !)*$            23-"
#*.' - ()   191691:8997            847-111;
   7 '&',##             23-"
#*.' - ()   1816788:824            627-111;
   8  # " ('$*             23-"
#*.' - ()   1913:5:8417            529-111;
                                                                             4-869-111;

                    $
&%% "&$
                                                                                     
                                                                                    
 			                            	             
   2 &' ,&#           24-"
#*.' - ()   19188352197             461-111;
   3 
)*$*&#%         24-"
#*.' - ()   19188352197             561-111;
   4 '%( "              24-"
#*.' - ()   19188352197             411-111;
   5 ( ( *"$%             24-"
#*.' - ()   19188352197             461-111;
                                                                              "#(


                 %&&! &$'
                                                                                   
 			                             	       
   2 

	              27-"
#*' &$$*% ),-19141513125           4:9-111;
   3 
           27-"
#*' &$$*% ),-19137889:2:           515-111;
   4 
	      27-"
#*' &$$*% ),-19136683:68           665-111;
   5              27-"
#*' &$$*% ),-19195622798           425-111;
   6         27-"
#*' &$$*% ),-19163213571           434-111;
   7               27-"
#*' &$$*% ),-19163213571           345-111;
   8 
             27-"
#*' &$$*% ),-19163213571           559-111;
   9 
          27-"
#*' &$$*% ),-191976651413          389-111;
   : 	
    27-"
#*' &$$*% ),-1919:365433           881-111;
  21 
               27-"
#*' &$$*% ),-1819:677484           254-611;
  22               27-"
#*' &$$*% ),-181374877:7           321-111;
  23 
             27-"
#*' &$$*% ),-19298:87331           271-111;

                                                                             " !$#(


                   && "!"!!'
                                                                                    
 			                             	        
   2 		
            28-"
#*' &$$*% ),-19197849496           579-111;
   3 
               28-"
#*' &$$*% ),-19184282968           475-111;
   4 		               28-"
#*' &$$*% ),-191:47:9311           513-111;
   5            28-"
#*' &$$*% ),-19177136363           348-111;
   6             28-"
#*' &$$*% ),-19134317:57           479-111;
   3   	           .4)
 '$#!!'"&()-4-5655-/65           135)---7
   4   


             .4)
 '$#!!'"&()-4-24..134.           1-1)---7
   5   

              .4)
 '$#!!'"&()-4-3/./24-0           /-/)---7
   6   
            .4)
 '$#!!'"&()-4-03/0.343           115)---7
                                                                              #'

                    &		
	
	% !# $"
                                                                                      
                                        
   . 	             .5)
 '$#!!'"&()-5.4234-645           01/)---7
   / 	

              .5)
 '$#!!'"&()-5.0006/.-0           115)---7
   0 


      .5)
 '$#!!'"&()-5.350/2214           115)---7
   1 




              .5)
 '$#!!'"&()-5-3/315/51           135)---7
   2                .5)
 '$#!!'"&()-5.3606/0.5           015)---7
   3 
                .5)
 '$#!!'"&()-5-60./4/14           2-5)---7
   4 

                .5)
 '$#!!'"&()-4-06310206           /65)---7
   5 
              .5)
 '$#!!'"&()-5-/616504-           365)---7
   6 
         .5)
 '$#!!'"&()-5-26123.53           /-2)---7
  .- 	                   .5)
 '$#!!'"&()-5..306.225           .--)---7
                                                                             %# '


                   		%$$$#%#
                                                                                      
                                        
    *         .6)
 '$#!!'"&()-5.5/3-5/06           1/5)---7
    	


             .6)
 '$#!!'"&()-5-2/66-02/           041)---7
                         .6)
 '$#!!'"&()-5-523/.66.           /1.)---7
   ! 
	             .6)
 '$#!!'"&()-5.0132.2/-           115)---7
   " 
                .6)
 '$#!!'"&()-5-245-5022           105)---7
   # 

            .6)
 '$#!!'"&()-5.355/215-           115)---7
   $ 
                 .6)
 '$#!!'"&()-5-60/26242           /4-)2--7
   % 

	
              .6)
 '$#!!'"&()-5.5-63/133           /-2)---7
                                                                                %""'


                   %# " %
                                                                                      
                                        
   . 
              /-)
 '$#!!'"&()-5-3/0//..6           100)---7
   / 

                /-)
 '$#!!'"&()-4-554/41.-           2.5)---7
   0 
               /-)
 '$#!!'"&()-5-664565./           3.0)---7
   1 
                 /-)
 '$#!!'"&()-4-0415-.5.           4.3)---7
   2 
             /-)
 '$#!!'"&()-5.-/.0.12-           2.5)---7
   3 

                 /-)
 '$#!!'"&()-5-3/.-3452           105)---7
   4 
                  /-)
 '$#!!'"&()-4-...52.1/           135)---7
                                                                             $!'
                  
		


$$"! 
                                                                                       
 
                                        
   , 

            0(
&#"    &!%'(+3+023+3.00           /13(+++5
   -                  0(
&#"    &!%'(+3+-/./.,.4           //,(+++5
   . 	                 0(
&#"    &!%'(+2+13.-,12-           /.0(+++5
   / 

        0(
&#"    &!%'(+3,..3-1.11           /.3(+++5
   0 
               0(
&#"    &!%'(+3--041001            /,3(+++5
   1 
               0(
&#"    &!%'(+2+//3-,434           .32(+++5
   2            0(
&#"    &!%'(+2+1-1101+-           /13(+++5
   3                0(
&#"    &!%'(+3,3.03+/42           /,3(+++5
   4 
             0(
&#"    &!%'(+3+4143/22+           /+3(+++5
  ,+ 


              0(
&#"    &!%'(+2+/0324-0-           /,3(+++5
  ,, 


               0(
&#"    &!%'(+3,20+.3/43           -2.(+++5
  ,- 
      0(
&#"    &!%'(+3+-.1,31,1           -4/(+++5
                                 
                                             $""%


                     	



$#$"
                                                                                       
 
                                        
   , 	           -0(
&#"    &!%'(+3,+-,.,/0+           -3,(+++5
   -                     -0(
&#"    &!%'(+3+2.-2//,3           ,13(+++5
   .               -0(
&#"    &!%'(+3,233,24,4           /+/(+++5
   / 	
            -0(
&#"    &!%'(+3,--,0-201           /+0(+++5
   0                 -0(
&#"    &!%'(+2+3+.41-0+           ,3+(+++5
   1 
              -0(
&#"    &!%'(+3,0.0./400           /-4(+++5
   2 
               -0(
&#"    &!%'(+2+3,1/03,+           //3(+++5
   3 

              -0(
&#"    &!%'(+3,.20.1.4/           1/2(40+5
   4 

          -0(
&#"    &!%'($%             001(-++5
  ,+            -0(
&#"    &!%'(+3+.-01,++1           /++(+++5
  ,,               -0(
&#"    &!%'(+3+2/,-.+23           -+0(+++5
  ,-                 -0(
&#"    &!%'(+3,+0.1,34,           ./3(+++5
  ,. 	
            -0(
&#"    &!%'(+3+-4.-+.-,           /.+(+++5
  ,/ 
               -0(
&#"    &!%'(+3+2-+02-,.           --+(+++5
                                 
                                            !!%

                       	


$!" #
                                                                                       
 
                                        
   , 

              -2(
&#$%     +3+3-02132-             /,3(+++5
   - 
               -2(
&#$%     +3+-/,022/1             /+1(+++5
   . 


             -2(
&#$%     +2+,,./-14+             /13(+++5
   / 
     -2(
&#$%     +3,-.100/22             0/3(+++5
   0 	             -2(
&#$%     +3+120//4,+             .03(+++5
   1 
             -2(
&#$%     +2+34+40312             ../(+++5
   2 	         -2(
&#$%     +3,0-4./-12             .33(+++5
   3 
              -2(
&#$%     +3+23-2+31,             .+.(+++5
                                                                           #""#    )


                               "$	

                                                                                      
 			                            	           
   1            47+ 	!(%&'    08162413597              448+000:
   2 	          47+ 	!(%&'    08158484363              518+000:
                                                                             (%%   )


                                "%

                                                                                     
 			                            	          
   1 		           28+ 	!(%&'                             310+000:
   2 	                 28+ 	!(%&'    07012975139              419+000:
   3 	
           28+ 	!(%&'    08165652650              278+700:
   4 		            28+ 	!(%&'    07084747500              262+000:
   5 
               28+ 	!(%&'    08154460047              192+000:
   6           28+ 	!(%&'    08181647891              323+900:
   7                 28+ 	!(%&'    08053919412              238+400:
   8 	               28+ 	!(%&'    07059087980              326+900:
   9 		           28+ 	!(%&'    07056080406              206+200:
  10 	               28+ 	!(%&'    08187138586              296+500:
                                                                           "'$#%   )

              "&
	 ' "%&&'(!(
                                                                                     
 			                            	          
   1 $&&
$#               26+ 	!(%&'    08161844606              450+000:
   2 !()#&$!$          26+ 	!(%&'    08121268348              340+000:
   3 $&& (%"             26+ 	!(%&'    08066134328              340+000:
   4 !"$#              26+ 	!(%&'    07030337122              500+000:
   5 *$"$(#               26+ 	!(%&'    08087480046              370+000:
   6 "&"#                 26+ 	!(%&'    07082070952              450+000:
   7 $!$"$#$              26+ 	!(%&'    08073440080              410+000:
                               ,-                                            "'%    )


                  "'
 '$%& %#''
                                                                                     
 			                            	          
   1 	             29+ 	!(%&'    07087942439              400+000:
   2 	                29+ 	!(%&'    07088120774              212+700:
   3               29+ 	!(%&'    08035376279              368+500:
   4 	             29+ 	!(%&'    08058245564              418+000:
   5 	          29+ 	!(%&'    08174839027              228+000:
   6 
                29+ 	!(%&'    08094550747              328+000:
  /   
	             *1#
"      !   (0)..0.)1,1           *01#(((2
  0   



            *1#
"      !   (0(-110.,*+           ,*0#(((2
  1   	              *1#
"      !   (/(+)+)/*1/           ,.0#(((2
 )(   
              *1#
"      !   (/(+/-(/.0*           ,/.#(((2
 ))   

             *1#
"      !   (/(,+-/,).)           +(-#(((2
 )*   


               *1#
"      !   (0(0,00*+(.           --(#(((2
 )+   
	
         *1#
"      !   (0)(*)+),-(           *(-#(((2
 ),                 *1#
"      !   (/(-*.*),-*           *(-#(((2
 )-   

 *1#
"      !   (0))./..//,           +1*#*((2
                                                                             "$ !'


                       &

%%#"! 
                                                                                       
 			                                 	       
   ) 

                 +*#
"   !   (0(.*+(+1*)           .-0#(((2
   *                 +*#
"   !   (0)(*)+),-(           /)(#(((2
   +                  +*#
"   !   (0(+*).)).,           0,0#(((2
   , 
             +*#
"   !   (0(--+,1(-1         )#(((#(((2
   - 
            +*#
"   !   (0)0(1*+0+*           /,+#(((2
   . 



              +*#
"   !   (0(//*+--))           /0+#(((2
   / 

                +*#
"   !   (0(+/),-,+(         )#/((#(((2
   0 	
               +*#
"   !   (0(++/)+/*(           )/,#(((2
   1 
                   +*#
"   !   (0)(*)+),-(           **-#(((2
  )( 

	                 +*#
"   !   (0(+1.,+)-(         )#/-+#(((2
  )) 	
          +*#
"   !   (0(+..00-,1         )#-((#(((2
  )* 		                   +*#
"   !   (0(0,-)).0/
  )+ 	
             +*#
"   !   (0(0(1.*,..           ),1#(((2
  ), 
                     +*#
"   !   (0)0(1.*,..           )-(#(((2
  )-                   +*#
"   !   (/()(.(0-/*           *(-#(((2
  ). 

            +*#
"   !   (/(+0)/)-+)           *(-#(((2
  )/                   +*#
"   !   (0(0.-,(+(*           ),1#.((2
  )0 
	            +*#
"   !   (/(.+01()(-           *(-#(((2
  )1 


               +*#
"   !   (0(--,+1+-+           +((#(((2
  *( 

          +*#
"   !   (/(+1-*).,-           *-(#(((2
  *) 

                 +*#
"   !   (0)(*)+),-(           *(-#(((2
  ** 
$
             +*#
"   !   (0(+,/,+1)0           ),1#.((2
  *+ 	


              +*#
"   !   %(/(-00*+0-0          +((#(((2
                                                                            &!'




                 
% % $#!%	
                                                                                       
 			                                 	       
   )                 ,+#
" !     (/(-*)+)-,0           ,1(#(((2
   * 
	                  ,+#
" !     (0(.(,(----           *-(#(((2
   + 
                    ,+#
" !     (0(-0(--0*1           ,+0#(((2
  3                 32+ '$%&   /7047348575        455+///9
  4   	            32+ '$%&   /7/63507638        631+///9
  5                   32+ '$%&   /6/222/8513        357+///9
  6             32+ '$%&   /7/73721677        06/+///9
  7   

            32+ '$%&   /7/7543/2/1        267+///9
  8                   32+ '$%&   /6/33/76403        12/+///9
                                                                     !%! '

                                 !

                                                                              
                                                                          
 			                           	           
  0   #)"**               5/+,$%&     /7062/2264/        261+///9
  1   '") #'"            5/+,$%&     /6/045/8108        25/+///9
  2   $'(&(            5/+,$%&     /705//662/5        38/+///9
  3   $!$              5/+,$%&     /6/51117641        32/+///9
                                                                         $# '



                                   ! 
                                                                              
                                                                          
 			                           	           
  0   '")!)             53+,$%&     /7/4865243/        34/+///9
  1   '$)#!              53+,$%&     /7/8/710183        21/+///9
  2   )#'(               53+,$%&     /7/2/6/6717        10/+///9
  3   
$! &"            53+,$%&     /6/3108//17        337+///9
  4   & (#!            53+,$%&     /703/28/438        21/+///9
                                                                         %"&'



                              !!

                                                                              
                                                                          
 			                           	           
  0   ")'$             51+,$%&     /6/71/68/60        53/+///9
  1   '"$"             51+,$%&     /6/71/68/60        32/+///9
  2   "	#%'             51+,$%&     /7/1645361/        15/+///9
  3   %&$#            51+,$%&     /703/28/403        257+///9
  4   !%$"           51+,$%&     /6/71/68/62         74+///9
                                                                         %&!'

                                  !"
                                                                              
                                                                          
 			                           	           
    6    "	'"""                 ;8,/$%&      5=5:;59:5<8          975,555?
    7    #* '!              ;8,/$%&      5<5<:76656;          7<5,555?
    8    $**"                      ;8,/$%&      5<57;8<;;>;          :85,555?
    9    !*"                      ;8,/$%&      5=6576869:5          8=5,555?
    :    )"$%                  ;8,/$%&      5=6576869:5          9:=,555?
    ;    '"""'                ;8,/$%&      5=6=577;9;>          8<5,555?
                                                                                   !%&



                                              "

                                                                                      
                                                                                  
 			                                   	           
    6    %&$!                 :>,/$%&      5=5;=;:8=75          :55,555?
    7    "'!	")'                 :>,/$%&      5=5=79>>97<          9<=,555?
    8     ""                    :>,/$%&      5=5;77<799:          8=5,555?
    9    	")*!')                :>,/$%&      5=69:=;:==6          875,555?
    :     %"!!'&!               :>,/$%&      5=5<88;>59           8<=,555?
                                                                                   "#&



                                           #




                                                                                      
                                                                                  
 			                                   	           
         	)))"* 0&1
     6   0"!&&-$. *$!1    ;<,/$%&      25=6576869:5         7:5,555?
     7    *$!                   ;<,/$%&      5=6576869:5          <:9,555?
     8   %&$!*                ;<,/$%&      5=6:8987:=>          :>=,555?
     9   '
"!                     ;<,/$%&      5=5799:8;=:          :;5,555?
     :   	*"	*)                   ;<,/$%&      5=6;688>=<8          9>5,555?
     ;   $ "               ;<,/$%&      5=67;65;=;           :96,555?
     <   	*"$!*      ;<,/$%&      5=5=:;5798:          :6=,555?
     =   !*                  ;<,/$%&      5=5=><6>9;9          8<=,555?
     >   ()"*                  ;<,/$%&                           7:5,555?
    65   %&$')*"")"         ;<,/$%&      5=6576869:5,5=5     7:5,555?
    66   $"!&")"*        ;<,/$%&      5=5=><6>9;9          75:,555?
    67    " "%)"*           ;<,/$%&      5=5=><6>9;9          6=:,555?
                                                                                   9,><>,555?



                                      $

                                                                                      
                                                                                  
 			                                   	           
6        &'&)"!               ;;,/$%&      5=6:8987:=>         99=,555?
7        	)+'                  ;;,/$%&      5=5=578><66         9;=,555?
/      $$$             22')!"#       ,4,23.-.,02         11,',,,6
0      $&             22')!"#       ,3,405,/1/3         2-4',,,6
1      "$#%               22')!"#       ,4-,,402/24         342',,,6
2      	##$              22')!"#       ,4,13123//0         020',,,6
3      %             22')!"#       ,4,.0055-0/         04/',,,6
4      $"                  22')!"#       ,4,1.-,,212         0-4',,,6
5      "$$&              22')!"#       ,4,2.3,4,14         12,',,,6
    -, &$#%             22')!"#       ,4-1/0/.145         -05'2,,6
    -- $&&               22')!"#       ,4-1/0/.145         .,1',,,6
                                                                                $ #(%)


                             "'



&$"%$$!$&
                                                                                     
                                                                                 
 			                                  	           
     -   &$"#             25()!"#       ,3,/./,-,43         054',,,6
     .   $(            25()!"#       ,4-,.-/-01,         2/4',,,6
     /   !#$             25()!"#       ,4-./122-,4         03,',,,6
     0   	##             25()!"#       ,4-,.-/-01,         034',,,6
     1   "$&            25()!"#       ,3,-,-323-0         120',,,6
                                    	                                            .'204',,,6


                             "(
&'(($(%&
                                                                                     
                                                                                 
 			                                  	           
-        #
%"              3.')!"#       ,4-0/,.005,         154',,,6
.        !#             3.')!"#       ,4-,-11203,         204',,,6
/        #               3.')!"#       ,4,534.50-3         1/4',,,6
0        &%              3.')!"#       ,4-,-2,411,         02/',,,6
1        $          3.')!"#       ,3,2/45,-,1         134',,,6
2        !               3.')!"#       ,4,1,255/-4         104',,,6
                                                                                ""&")

                                    #



                                                                                      
                                                                                     
 			                                  	         
   - & #$                3,')!"#             4,.//-42--      104',,,6
   . "#!                 3,')!"#             3,12324,-/      104',,,6
   / $"                  3,')!"#             4,/-/2/,,3      104',,,6
   0 "#!#&"         3,')!"#            4,,144/3/33      104',,,6
   1 &%                  3,')!"#             4-32...//-      104',,,6
   2 $!                  3,')!"#             3,/0.0--1,      104',,,6
   3 !                 3,')!"#              4,5,04353      054',,,6
   3 "       2+'(!"#           3+.+.0.30,     /43'+++5
   4 $"$        2+'(!"#           3+2.++2+-.     /43'+++5
  ,+ "#"$           2+'(!"#           3,-//+2..3     /43'+++5
     $!$&         2+'(!"#           3+0,1.4+4/     /43'+++5
                                                                      0'223'+++5

                             !

                                                                            
                                                                           
 			                        	         
   , %              2,'(!"#          3+04,3,300      .++'+++5
   - &$"$             2,'(!"#          3,-400.+2-      2.+'+++5
   . 
"        2,'(!"#          3+.3.-4301      .4+'+++5
   / #$#&      2,'(!"#          3,33134/01      /1+'+++5
   0 #$           2,'(!"#          2+/.02/,10      0++'+++5
   1 #%      2,'(!"#         3+,11042434      04.'+++5
   2 $%&$&        2,'(!"#          2+33214.4.      4,,'+++5
   3 %"                2,'(!"#          3+-,-/1102      0/1'+++5
   4 	%$          2,'(!"#          3+-/-4/20+      01,'+++5
  ,+ &#           2,'(!"#      +3+0-0022+-         -+0'+++5
  ,, "&$&        2,'(!"#      +2+,+,212,/         -0+'+++5
  ,- #$"$         2,'(!"#      +3,.223+-./         -1+'+++5
  ,. !#%          2,'(!"#      +3+3,/,++,,         -+0'+++5
  ,/ "    2,'(!"#      +2+//1/1323         ,4+'+++5
                                                                      /'44,'+++5


                             !


                                                                            
                                                                           
                                           	         
   , #!&         13'(!"#           3+21++233      0/3'+++5
   - &&           13'(!"#          3+301.11.0      0/3'+++5
   . #	"           13'(!"#           2+3133.4,      //3'+++5
   / $ $&           13'(!"#           3,//4/,0,      //3'+++5
   0 &&       13'(!"#           3+21++233      //3'+++5
   1 $&$&         13'(!"#      +3+21++233          //3'+++5
   2 !$&         13'(!"#           3+21++233      //3'+++5
                                                                        "#


                             ! 


                                                                            
                                                                           
                                           	         
   , 	&$ 
   - 	&&
   . 
   4 $,
                          

                          ""



                                                                             
                                                                            
                                         	            
   1 
"!%"!
   2 )"
"%'                                        08160459779            500+000:
                                                                         #(

                          "#	
		


                                                                            
                                         	     
   1 !)'("         --                           --                           --

                          "$
&$"&!'" 

                                                                             
                                         	     
   1 )'!)         42-	'-$+%&   07087942439            200+000:
   2 
%"!	 "          42-	'-$+%&   08034150509            205+000:
   3 "%%	("        42-	'-$+%&   08095733169            330+000:
   4 '(&"%!(")    42-	'-$+%&   08089719464            160+000:
   5 '%%!!       42-	'-$+%&   08099789812            205+000:
                                                                       (

                          "%
&%'"""# 

                                                                            
                                         	     
   1 % "        25-	'-$+%&   0812711185            395+000:
   2 	$ %&'     65+-$%&         7032421103        448+000:
   3 '-	%'         65+-$%&         8144276297        698+000:
   4 (        65+-$%&         8054087486        446+000:
   5 &''      65+-$%&         8058094786        496+000:
   6 $"$)        65+-$%&        70567797113        736+000:
   7 %$ '        65+-$%&         8029497306        516+000:
   8  #"'     65+-$%&         8153691139        418+000:
   9 *"'          65+-$%&         7058626197        356+000:
  10 	%$'$'!     65+-$%&     08056706471           270+000:
  11 	$!%     65+-$%&                           300+000:
  12  )"!"$!      65+-$%&         8023720640        250+000:
  13 "& ""'       65+-$%&     08164206572           205+000:
  14 )!        65+-$%&     08050914026           250+000:
  15 )!%&'      65+-$%&     08187069885            50+000:
  16 
"&("!        65+-$%&     08034101028           380+000:
  .4   
&&             32)*#$%     -5.2020-/36           0--)---7
  .5   &#           32)*#$%     -5-13/4/.42           /2-)---7
  .6    $!   32)*#$%     -5-0-1--5/.           /4-)---7
  /-   # $       32)*#$%     -5-/344-.20           /-2)---7
  /.   (!          32)*#$%     -4-561.65-0           .52)---7
                                                                          !!&

                              !$			$#%!!" 

                                                                                
                                                 
   . !!&!&!"         .1*	&*#)$%   -5.36.5/651           //2)---7
   / & (         .1*	&*#)$%                         /-2)---7
   0 & (&            .1*	&*#)$%   -5.2331503/           /--)---7
   1 '!(##!     .1*	&*#)$%   -5.5-63/133           .52)---7
   2 !!"(           .1*	&*#)$%   -4-...224.-           /52)---7
   3 !$	#             .1*	&*#)$%   -5...202634           .51)2--7
   4 & $%&#        .1*	&*#)$%   -5.33.-4.53           .55)---7
   5 !&#         .1*	&*#)$%   -4-36/40306           /2-)---7
   6 &$ (            .1*	&*#)$%   -5-40516026           .1-)---7
  .- & (!'!'          .1*	&*#)$%   -4-35.03411           0--)---7
  .. %              .1*	&*#)$%   -5.16526125           24-)---7
  .. $
! $!            .1*	&*#)$%   -4.35.03411           02-)---7
  ./ !" !'!	!&     .1*	&*#)$%   -4.35.03411           02-)---7
  .0  & 	%& &          .1*	&*#)$%   -5.0025-164           /4-)---7
  .0 $            .1*	&*#)$%   -5-234/466-           /5-)---7
  .1 &# %(         .1*	&*#)$%   -5-63004063           .52)---7
  .2 
!$"           .1*	&*#)$%   -4-23/12.00           /2-)---7
                                                                          !!#"&


                              !%	
                                                                               
                                                 
   .  #'              03*	&*#)$%   -5.5-0-/536          .42)---7
                                                                           #"&


                              "	
                                                                               
                                                 
   . !$! &           *	&*#)$%      -5.125325.           //2)---7
   / # 
! $!!    *	&*#)$%      -5-2043455-          /4-)---7
   0 	(!& !         *	&*#)$%      -5.-/.0.12-          /-2)---7
                                                                           #&


                              "


                                                                        
                                       	   
   .  !)&   *#* (!"   -5-664565./         /-2(---7
   / 	&%         *#* (!"   -5.5./51-25         00-(---7
   0 !!"$      *#* (!"   -5.263/.4-0         ./-(---7
   1 #&&        *#* (!"   -5-2245.524         /4-(---7
   2  !# "       *#* (!"   -5-/04.0362         61-(---7
   3        *#* (!"   -5.53533264         /.-(---7
   4 # !"           *#* (!"   -5-4/2536/0         .52(---7
   5 !&         *#* (!"   -5-/0621/2.         /22(---7
   6 	!            *#* (!"   -5-00343--0         0--(---7
  .- 
 !#     *#* (!"   -5-23000.-.         /-2(---7
  ..  &#          *#* (!"   -5.5-0-224.         /-2(---7
                                                                   "$

                           "



                                                                         
                                       	   
   . !&       *#* (!"   -5-/21.526           .6-(---7
   /  "        *#* (!"   -5-23000.-4          //2(---7
   0 %#%!         *#* (!"   -5.33-3063.          /5-(---7
   1 %         *#* (!"   -5.0035-164          /-2(---7
   2 "           *#* (!"   -4-36/40306          /-2(---7
   3 !#          *#* (!"   -5-4215-516          /-/(---7
   4 	"#          *#* (!"   -5./2/26426          102(2--7
   5  %     *#* (!"   -5.05346416          /0-(---7
   6 #"&     *#* (!"   -5-.5-63/133         /5-(---7
  .- %#          *#* (!"   -5-4./../6.          .6-(---7
                                                                   !!"$

                           " 

                                                                         
                                       	   
   . #!#       *#* (!"   -5-312-1426          .52(---7
   / &!    *#* (!"   -5-/0.-1504          //2(---7
   0 &&            *#* (!"   -5-24/564--          /.2(---7
   1 # #     *#* (!"   -4-..01/36-          /2-(---7
   2  #       *#* (!"   -5-63/4/.42          /1-(---7
   3  "#&#   *#* (!"   -5-/6100/6-          0--(---7
   4 #!"          *#* (!"   -4-5..00-33          0--(---7
   5 "'         *#* (!"   -4-525.3.21          .52(---7
   6 "#"#    *#* (!"                        .52(---7
                                                                   #"$

                           "!
                                                                        
                                       	   
   . %#         *#* (!"   -5-5331-0-/         /-2(---7
   +   "           &!&%      )1*)2+-22/)          +.)%)))3
   ,   
	   &!&%      )1*)+*,*-.)          ++1%)))3
   -           &!&%      )1*--2)/)-*          ,+)%)))3
   .   "       &!&%      )1*.1-./0++          +*)%)))3
                                                                       !'


                            ##

                                                                            
                                          	   
   *          &!&%      )0)102-+-,2          +,)%)))3
   + $!            &!&%      )0)**+0)221          *2)%)))3
   , 	!!        &!&%      )1*.)++/-/2          +0)%)))3
   -        &!&%      )0),+-12,,)          +).%)))3
   . ##!      &!&%      )1)./,,,*)*          +0)%)))3
   /         &!&%      )0)102-+-,2          *1)%)))3
   0 !          &!&%      )1).01)1,..          ++.%)))3
                                                                      #%'

                            #$

                                                                         
                                          	 
   * 
!#"           &!&%      )0)./0/1)*,       +).%)))3
   + 
          &!&%      )1*1+)20-)2%)1*  +).%)))3
   , #        &!&%      )0)/1*,/0--       ,))%)))3
                                                                     %'


                            #%

                                                                         
                                          	 
   * !#         &!&%      )1*12/*)*/)       +0)%)))3
   +  ##"       &!&%      )1*0112+0.2%)0)  ,.)%)))3
                                                                     $ '

                            #%


                                                                           
                                          	   
   * !!        &!&%      )1)./)-.)0,         *1.%)))3
   + ! #      &!&%      )1).+*)+-/)         +.)%)))3
                                                                       "!#'

                            #&


                                                                           
                                          	   
   * !"       &!&%      )1)+)2.-/)2         +).%)))3
   +       &!&%      &&                  ,),%)))3
                                                                     #&(

                            #'
	
                                                                         
                                        	   
   ) !                   % %#
   * 
                  % %#
   +  "                 % %#
   ,                   % %#
                            


                            $

                                                                         
                                        	   
   )               % %#   (0(*+*-1())         )0-#(((2
   * 
  "          % %#   (0)+0**(00(         )1(#(((2
   +  "          % %#   (0(++000/0//        )1(#(((2
   ,                 % %#                       )*)#(((2
   - 
$    % %#                       )1(#(((2
                                                                     &%$(

                            $

                                                                         
                                        	   
   ) 	        % %#   (0)0(1.*,..         )0-#(((2
   * "!      % %#                       )0-#(((2
   +  "!       % %#                       )0-#(((2
   , "         % %#   (0)0(1.*,..         )1-#(((2
                                                                     %#(


                                     !$ ##$%(
                            		                         "$#
The World Bank
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT   102, Yakubu Gowan Crescent      Tel: (+234) 703 583 0641 • 4
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                   Opp. ECOWAS Secretariat             {+234) 708 999 6090 . 1
                                                        Asokoro District                Fax: (+234-9) 314 5267
                                                        P.M.B 339, Garl<i
                                                        Abuja, F.C.T., Nigeria



                                                                                 June 28, 2013


            Mr. Netsanet Belay
            Africa Programme director
            Amnesty International
            International Secretariarit
            Peter Benenson House, 1 Easton Street
            London WClX ODW
            United Kingdom

            Dear Mr Belay,

                  Re: Resettlement of People wlto were Forcibly Evicted by tlte Lagos State
                            Governmentfrom Badia East on February 23, 2013

                     Thank you for your letter dated June 14th, 2013 outlining the concerns
            Amnesty has about the demolitions in Badia East on February 23rd, 2013. We take
            your concerns seriously and are also very concerned about these demolitions and the
            affected communities. As discussed at our meeting with your colleagues, we are
            actively working with the Lagos State Government to find a solution to the situation
            that is in line with World Bank policies and the Government's commitments to these
            policies.

                    In relation to the particular questions you raised in your letter, we can confirm
            that the Government of Lagos has agreed to prepare a Resettlement Action Plan
            (RAP) for the people whose homes and structures in the Oke-Ilu-Eri and Ajeromi
            sections of Badia East were demolished on February 23rd and 24th, 2013. As part of
            this process the Government has committed to submitting to the Bank a census and a
            socioeconomic assessment identifying the affected population and lost assets and
            structures. The preparation of the RAP will be underpinned by a strong consultative
            process.

                    To identify people who were affected by the demolitions and to assess their
            losses, the Bank team has suggested a number of mechanisms that could be used to
            compile the data sets required for the census, including lists and photos prepared by
            the local community in Badia East for the households and structures demolished on
            February 23rd and 24th. The team has also informed the Government that the census
            undertaken by the Ojora would not meet Bank requirements and that a transparent,
            consultative process is required, as you rightly outline in your letter. Further, the Bank
            has advised the Government that the RAP should be in the form of an addendum to
            the December 2012 RAP, so that the entitlements to compensation are consistent with
            the valuation methodology of the 2012 RAP.

                   In response to your third question on resettlement options, the Bank team
            explained to the Government that, in accordance with OP 4.12, the RAP addendum
            would need to clearly explain why people could not be relocated to another site,
Mr. Belay                                   -2-                              June 28, 2013


including any near Badia, if this is indeed the case. The team has further advised that
if cash compensation is all that is offered, the government needs to ensure that
affected people are provided with appropriate sustainable livelihood assistance, such
as skills training, micro-credit, and employment opportunities.

        To oversee the implementation of this process, the Government of Lagos has
established a technical committee consisting of directors of the relevant different
ministries involved in this matter. On Thursday, June 201.'\ 2013, the World Bank
participated (in its capacity of observer) in the first meeting of the Technical
Committee. The meeting agreed to hold the first consultation meeting with the
stakeholders of Badia East on July 4111, 2013. The Bank has stressed the need for
community representatives to be involved in each stage of the process. To support this
process, the World Bank is establishing a Liaison Officer in Lagos and a RAP
consultant will be recruited by the LMDGP PIU to initiate the preparation of the RAP.

        Finally the Bank has confirmed with the Government that even if LMDGP
closes, as planned, on September 30th, 2013, the government's obligations under its
financing agreement with IDA to implement the RAP remain in effect and the Bank
will continue to monitor its implementation. This is important for sustaining the long-
term partnership between the World Bank and the Lagos State Government.

      Please do not hesitate to contact us if you require any additional information.
We will also endeavor to keep you informed of the process as it proceeds.




                                      Sincerely,




                            Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
                            Country Director for Nigeria
                                   Africa Region
ANNEX II
                                                                              October 29, 2013

                                       Annex II

            Nigeria – Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project

                          Actions proposed by Bank Management


Purpose of the Memo

1.     The Purpose of this memo is to outline Bank Management’s past and proposed actions to
address concerns expressed in the request for inspection of the Nigeria – Lagos Metropolitan
Development and Governance Project dated September 30, 2013. This information is for the
consideration of the Bank’s Inspection Panel for the application of the Early Resolution Pilot
procedure, agreed between the Panel and Management.


Summary of the harm alleged in the Request

2.      The Requesters state that they are representing communities which have been adversely
affected by the following events during implementation of the LMDGP:

       “On March 6, 2012, without prior consultation, notice, compensation or resettlement,
       Lagos State Government demolished over 100 structures in Badia to make way for the
       construction of a drainage canal built under the LMDGP. Some homes were set on fire in
       the middle of the night; the others were demolished the following morning.”

       “On February 23, 2013, without prior consultation, notice, compensation, or
       resettlement, Lagos State Government demolished hundreds of structures in the area of
       Badia immediately adjoining the newly constructed canal, forcefully evicting an
       estimated 9,000 Badia residents, the intended beneficiaries of the LMDGP.”


3.     The requesters state that efforts by the Government to mitigate the impacts of the cited
events have been insufficient to date:

       “While a retroactive Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) completed in December 2012
       provided minimal financial assistance to 124 Project Affected Persons displaced during
       the March 2012 forced eviction, the sums were insufficient to offset the harms suffered,
       especially in light or the delay of nearly nine months. Since the February 23, 2013, no
       relief or emergency aid measures have been undertaken to mitigate the present and
       extreme suffering of thousands of affected persons.”
Summary of Actions taken so far

4.      There are two demolitions referred to in the request: The first demolition occurred in
2012 in connection with the construction of a canal and a road located in the Badia area of
Lagos. Management considered that, as the demolitions had occurred in the right-of-way of the
canal, the Project-Affected Peoples (PAPs) should be compensated. After months of
consultation with the community and a complex process of community verification a retroactive
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared and implemented by January 2013.

5.     The second demolition occurred on February 23rd, 2013, in a section of Badia East. This
demolition was not undertaken as part of project implementation. However, the Financing
Agreement for the project states that all works related to upgrading urban facilities in Lagos –
whether financed by the project or not – need to be carried out in accordance with the project’s
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF).

6.     Immediately after the 2013 demolitions the Bank team contacted the LMDGP team and
the Government of Lagos. The Bank’s Country office engaged in fact finding and reached out to
representatives of the Social and Economic Rights Action Centre (SERAC), the NGO acting on
behalf of affected people. The Bank team visited the demolition site in mid-March and met with
SERAC. Soon after, the Country Director met with the Lagos Government to express the
urgency of adhering to Bank policies applicable to the project.

7.      A meeting with the Governor of Lagos was held on April 26, 2013, in Washington to
agree on the way forward. Bank Management agreed to assist the Government of Lagos with the
development of a detailed and time-bound action plan to address the demolition’s impacts on the
affected people. During the meeting, the Bank management requested that no further demolitions
should take place except in accordance with the RPF, as provided for in the Financing
Agreement/Project Agreement and that the people affected by the demolitions in Badia East need
to be supported in a manner that is consistent with the provisions of the project’s RPF.

8.      During a safeguards mission May 6-10, 2013 the Bank Team met with the Lagos
Government officials, the representatives of the affected people, SERAC, and the LMDGP team.
It was then agreed that:

    a.   By July 31, 2013 the Lagos Government would submit to the Bank a census and
         socioeconomic assessment to identify more precisely the affected population and lost
         assets and structures. The Bank team indicated to the Government that SERAC is also
         in the process of compiling a detailed list of all affected people. The Attorney General
         agreed that there was sufficient information to carry out a credible census.

    b.   By August 31, 2013, an addendum to the 2012 RAP would be shared with the Bank.
         This would include entitlements to compensation consistent with and using the same
         valuation methodology as in the 2012 RAP. The Government representatives clearly
         understood that the issue of equity and expectations needed to be managed and
         therefore the same level of compensation will be provided to people most recently
         affected by demolitions as those who affected by the 2012 demolitions. The Bank team


                                               2
         also explained to the Government that, in accordance with OP 4.12, the RAP addendum
         would need to explain why people could not be relocated to another site and why the
         Government was offering only the option of cash compensation. The Government
         representatives further agreed to ensure that the PAPs were provided with skills
         training, micro-credit, and employment opportunities since cash compensation only was
         being offered. All of these points as well as a schedule of activities and a budget will be
         in the addendum to the RAP.

9.    The Bank team also stressed the need to have a strong complaints handling mechanism
and that people would have recourse to go to court if they were not satisfied with the
compensation offered. The Bank team reiterated that it will continue to monitor the effective
implementation of the RAP beyond project closure.

10.    The Lagos Government has submitted the two reports as per the due dates. Further Bank
missions took place to support the RAP preparation. The Bank’s comments on the draft RAP
were sent to the Lagos Government on September 11, 2013, suggesting that the Government’s
Technical Committee: i) move forward with consultations with Community Representatives and
SERAC on the final census and financial proposal and ii) finalize implementation plans and
arrangements, while iii) simultaneously improving the quality/technical elements of the
document itself (the Bank letter included an annex with detailed comments on the RAP).

11.     In the second half of September 2013, efforts were made by both sides – the Government
and representatives of the PAPs – to agree on: i) the list of affected people and ii) the
compensation levels. The Bank team participated in some of these negotiations and observed the
good progress which was achieved. In particular, the Government agreed to increase the monthly
rental allowance to reflect an understanding that the community members may need to move to
more expensive premises; the Government also agreed to add a 5% contingency to the costs of
replacement of structures to reflect possible variations in price, etc. The draft RAP was cleared
by Bank Management on September 30, 2013, with the proviso that it may be further updated to
address some conditions that need to be worked out further or clarified, pending discussions with
the Technical Committee.

12.     Since the closing date, Management has regularly followed up with the Government of
Lagos on the implementation of the RAP. A meeting was held in Abuja on October 8, 2013 with
the Director of the Lagos State Technical Committee to review the RAP implementation plan
including: (i) review of compensation levels, (ii) completion of list of beneficiaries, (iii) RAP
support to the livelihoods of the affected people ; (iv) the RAP complaints handling mechanism
and; (v) the timetable for implementation. More specifically the Bank team raised the following
issues for consideration by the Lagos State Government:

    a.   Rental Information: Lagos State Government has been requested to provide rental
         information for the PAPs. This will ensure that displaced persons have adequate
         information on rental and are able to secure legal housing.

    b.   Grievance mechanism: The Citizens Mediation Centre (CMC) is a core component of
         the grievance mechanism for the implementation of the RAP. As some concerns were


                                                 3
         raised the Bank has asked the Government to provide more information on the
         independence of the state-run CMC.

    c.   RAP Disclosure: It is important for Lagos Government to ensure that the RAP is
         disclosed to the public in Lagos (especially to all the PAPs).

    d.   RAP Implementation: Preparations for the effective implementation of the RAP will
         need to start immediately. Implementation modalities will need to be completed and
         appropriate human resources mobilized from the core PIU following project closure.

Proposed actions going forward

13.    Management intends to continue its efforts to address the concerns raised by the
requesters which have been mentioned earlier. This will include the following actions:

    a.    In May 2013, the Bank team had followed up with the community and SERAC
          regarding the December 2012 RAP. No concerns about compensation amounts were
          raised and the community expressed appreciation for the prompt handling of the
          matter by the Bank and the Government. As this issue has been raised in the Request,
          the Bank team will seek clarification from SERAC on the nature of these claims and
          the reasons why these could not brought to the attention of the Bank team. The Bank
          team will review these claims and follow up with the Government on redress as
          appropriate.

    b.    The Lagos Government is expected to submit the revised RAP on October 28, 2013.
          The Bank team will review it and ensure that it reflects the commitments made earlier
          and follow up on its disclosure to and consultation with the community.

    c.    The Lagos Government has committed to compensation payments by December 16,
          2013. IDA is financing US$ 3 million for the compensation to the PAPs; the
          Government will supplement this amount as and when necessary. The Bank team will
          work with the Technical Committee on speeding up the disbursement to ensure the
          payments are made within the grace period of the credit (January 31, 2014). If delays
          occur in the payment schedule, Bank management will seek an extension of the grace
          period.

Management would like to underscore the following points which in Management’s view
provide a sound basis to implement the actions described above:

14.    Government Commitment. The Government has recognized and acknowledged its
continued obligation to implement the mitigation measures spelled out under the Bank’s
safeguard instruments notwithstanding the closure of the project. The Government has assured
the Bank of its commitment to do so.

15.    Funding for compensation payments has been secured. As stated above, the Bank has
cleared the draft RAP and will clear the final RAP shortly. The Bank has set aside funds for the

                                               4
RAP, which takes into account the Government’s estimate and includes a margin for any
contingencies. Bank Management is ready to consider extending the grace period to
accommodate the time requirements to reach agreement between the two sides on the exact
number of beneficiaries and the amount of compensation for the majority of the cases.

16.     The Bank has and will continue to supervise the RAP implementation. Bank
Management is committed to continue the close supervision of the implementation of the RAP
by: a) regular visits to Lagos by project team and management (the next mission is scheduled for
October 24, 2013), b) mobilizing an experienced local consultant paid by the Bank to provide
assistance to the Lagos Government in ensuring close adherence to Bank resettlement policies.

17.     Legal Remedies available to the Bank. The Bank has had good relationship with the
Lagos Government which has delivered on all of the agreements. Bank Management expects that
this positive and collaborative attitude will prevail in the next months in addressing the impacts
of the demolitions. This relationship is embedded in a strong on-going lending program with the
State anchored by the preparation of a Development Policy Operation which is an important
element in the Government’s program. Notwithstanding this relationship, the Bank has always
the opportunity and the right to invoke all the remedies that are available under its legal
agreements.




                                                5
ANNEX III
                                                                                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                                                                                          1:
                                                                   .
                                                                   . -~··;·:.+,- ·.).   ·.•.   "l"   .~• ,"!""
                                                                                                        •••      ...... ~;::_; -~·.;,;;;·.,:;:     . ~-;,,,,;--.
                                                                                                                                                 't,...           _ __
                                                                                                                                                               . ._      ...,.._   _ ·. ...
                                                                                                                                                                                           ~




                                                                                                                                                                   •
                                                                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                                                           ~;



                                                                                                                                                                                           ,
                                                                                                                                                                                           f
                                                                                                                                                                                           ....
     Bankei:
First Bank Nig, l.imiti!d
                                                                                                                                                                                          .F·
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,.
ljora Causeway. ' · ··
Lagos


                                                         Your Raf.... . . ,. ~· ·•: ~ ~-=· ••


          25June2014
          Executive Secretal'Y~ The Insp~on Panel
          1818 H Sti:eet NW .     .
         ·Man Stop: MC10-1007
         . Washington, D.C. 20_433~.USA.

          IN THE MATl'ER OF THE LAGOS .METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT                                                                                              AND
          G_OVERNANCE PROJECT. (PROOECT ID: P01l340) .

          ~·Sir~:
          .     -   ~                  ~                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                          ;.



          We ·-wrtte to eX)>reis ·our deep dissatisfaction with the l.nadequate Resettlement
          Action Plan (RAP) and flawed Inspection Panel Pilot Process t.O<
                                                                         l)t'OViCle remedy to
          Individuals forcibly eVicted from Badia Rast on 23 Fem.~uy 2013•.

          Accordingly, we hereby ~uest that our Request for Inspection be fesistei'ed and a
                                                                                                                                                                                          •
          full inspection by the l~on Panel immediately commences.                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                                                                          l.      .f·

          ·We also· write to inform you that we liave.formaliy revoked the mandate of ~e
           Social·and·Bconomlc Rights Action Center (SBRAC) from representing Badia ·East.
           before the World Benk Inspection Panel. We have appointed Barrister Kah] ·K..
           Obuba, Esq. to repre$ent us henceforth before the Inspection Pan~l·

              ~r Obuba will be in contact with the Inspection Panel tq:J\tl)y explain our
              ~'in supPoctofoU..
                       .
                                  delnand for registration of our Request for Inspection.
                                                                              I  .
                        l .'       ~.._. . . .                                                                                   -   . .
           Please find below the signatures of'1 affected · persons from the . Badia . East ,                                                                                        .}

           Community, including the three.original requesters who. signed the orialn.all~r of                                                                                          J
          ,1D81l4ale included with ·the Request for Inspection. · ·               ·      ·                                                                                            i
                                                                                                                                                                                     l•
          ~~ ·.
                                                                                                                                                                                      .,
                               -                    :~< ~tf>.b.
                                                    _
                                                 -. I~~           b-1 \t.                                                                                                          -i
                                                                                                                                                                                     ~j

                                                                                                                                                                                    ....
                                                                                                                                                                                      'l
                                                                                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                                                                                        f.
                                                  ci' to-b '~Q\ ~·                                                                                                                      .'
                                                                                                                                                                                      .;.
                                                                                                                                                                                      .~.



                                                                                                                                                                                      'f
                                                   .!l:~    ~ (µ,~·­
 '"
                                                      .~~-~
                                                                                                                                                                                    ~
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
                                    		


	

         	 
 !"
 $##

11 July 2014

Hon. Eimi Watanabe, Chair
World Bank Inspection Panel
1818 H Street NW
Mail Stop: MC10-1007
Washington, DC 20433
USA


Dear Madam:

MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF REQUEST FOR REGISTRATION OF IPN
REQUEST RQ 13/09

I write with reference to the letter dated 25 June 2014 requesting registration
of a Request for Inspection of the Lagos Metropolitan Development and
Governance Project (Project ID: P071340) originally filed and dated on 30
September 2013.

The project-affected persons who signed the 25 June 2014 letter have
instructed me to act on their behalf before this Honourable Panel. The
signatories to that letter include two of the original requesters along with
another community leader and stand as representatives of numerous other
project-affected persons in the community who share their deep dissatisfaction.
I understand from my clients that the third requester had traveled out of state
at the time the 25 June 2014 letter was being prepared and was consequently
unavailable to sign.

The intention of the present communication is to further elaborate the
grievances of my clients with regards to the handling of their Request for
Inspection (IPN REQUEST RQ 13/09) since 30 September 2013, which explain
and justify their present fervent request for registration.

These grievances can be summarized in four points:

    1. The “pilot process” was initiated without the Requesters’ consent and
       suffered from lack of full disclosure and engagement.
    2. World Bank Management failed, at all significant moments, to offset the
       tremendous inequality of bargaining power between affected persons and
       the Lagos State Government such as would have been necessary to
       ensure a process and outcome in line with World Bank resettlement
       policies.



                                                          
  3. The process leading up to the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and the RAP
     itself do not comply with World Bank policies.
  4. Worse, the terms of the retroactive RAP for persons affected by 23
     February 2013 forced eviction changed substantially, to the affected
     persons' detriment, after initiation of the pilot process.

Although I have just recently been instructed in this matter, I have had the
opportunity to review much of the correspondence, listen to recordings of
certain meetings, and discuss extensively with the requesters, other project-
affected persons, and other interested parties. All this informs the points
elaborated below.

The “pilot process” was initiated without the Requesters’ consent and
suffered from lack of full and timely disclosure.

As an initial matter, the requesters wish to state that they never gave consent
for their Request for Inspection to be handled through this Honourable Panel’s
“pilot process” meant to facilitate early resolution. They understand from their
previous counsel that their consenting to enter into the “pilot process” was
premised on three conditions, which were not met. I refer to the highlighted
portions of several e-mail correspondences referencing these conditions marked
Exhibit A.

The clear intention of these three conditions—all requests for documents or
information—was to ensure that the requesters could enter into the “pilot
process” on equal footing with the Bank Management they were meant to
engage. As made clear from the correspondence that appears at Exhibit A, this
Honourable Panel ignored the conditions and on 11 November 2013 pushed the
matter to the “pilot process” without having met any of the conditions.

I also refer to three separate e-mails sent to Bank Management by the
requesters’ prior counsel between the opening of the “dialogue” and 1
December 2013, reiterating the requests for information/ documents that were
the conditions for engaging in the pilot process (Exhibit B). Contrary to what
had been promised about pilot process, the World Bank Country Director for
Nigeria wrote on 29 November, “given the fact that an inspection panel request
has been filed, it restricts the nature of communication we can have with the
complainant.”

We will subsequently return to the effect of the lack of proper disclosure in
response to these requests, which not only meant that my clients’ conditions for
entering into the pilot process were never met, but further violate the World
Bank’s own policies for disclosure and consultation in the development of a
Resettlement Action Plan.




                                           
World Bank Management failed, at all significant moments, to offset the
tremendous inequality of bargaining power such as would have been
necessary to ensure a process and outcome in line with World Bank
resettlement policies.

My clients have repeatedly voiced their belief throughout the entirety of the
“pilot process” that the World Bank would not defend their interests and,
instead, that they were alone in negotiations with the Lagos State Government.
To my clients, the World Bank has been visible to them via the various Bank
Management representatives who have appeared as “observers” at various
events and meetings and who have consistently evidenced a close relationship
with the Lagos State Government, its Technical Committee, and approval of the
process.

Indeed, my clients have had the sense that all Bank Management cared about
was “that there is a piece of paper called a RAP,” not that this document was
fair or complied with any particular standards.

Reinforcing these fears, Bank Management did little or nothing after initiation of
the pilot process to assist or support project-affected persons in responding to
the unilateral changes to the terms of the RAP (see discussion below) presented
with a "take it or leave it" message by the Lagos State Government on 20
November 2013.

Indeed, Bank Management representatives were present at the 20 November
2013 meeting and saw the shock and dismay of the project-affected persons,
who flatly rejected the new proposal and left.

Despite urgent e-mail communications from the requesters’ prior counsel (see
Exhibit B), Bank Management failed to take decisive steps to ensure a fair
process or outcome that complied with Bank resettlement standards (see
further discussion below). Instead, Bank Management commissioned two
independent consultants to review the lower financial assistance amounts and
promised these results by 15 December. These results did not come until 23
December.

In the meantime, the Bank sent representatives to a meeting on 9 December
between the Lagos State Government and community representatives at which
the community representatives explained the desperation of affected persons—
hungry, homeless, sick, and dying more than 9 months after the demolition of
their homes and businesses—and the Lagos State Government asked for a
letter of acceptance. The representatives' letter of conditional acceptance dated
9 December 2013 (Exhibit C) was flatly rejected.

It is the requesters’ fervent belief, in the face of all this evidence, that Bank
Management has, together with the Lagos State Government, played a “delay
game” designed to exacerbate the affected persons’ desperation and sap their
resolve. This is the only explanation for the acceptance letter eventually signed
on 20 December 2014, after having received no sign of support for their plight
from Bank Management or the independent review promised by 15 December.



                                            
The process leading up to the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and the
RAP itself do not comply with World Bank policies.

We submit that the process of developing the RAP dated 20 November 2013
and the RAP itself fails in numerous material ways to comply with the applicable
World Bank policies (OP 4.12) and the specific commitments undertaken by the
Lagos State Government in relation to the LMDGP Project Agreement and
Resettlement Policy Framework.

The fatal shortcomings of the RAP, among others, are summarized as follows:

  1. The RAP was prepared only months after the displacement of over 9,000
     project-affected persons and, more than 16 months after their
     displacement, implementation is still not complete;
  2. The RAP does not provide for resettlement of displaced persons;
  3. The financial assistance provided in the RAP is grossly inadequate to
     offset the harms suffered between displacement and implementation of
     the RAP;
  4. The RAP does not provide for meaningful livelihood support for displaced
     persons; and
  5. The RAP, which has retroactively been dated 20 November 2013, was not
     disclosed to project-affected persons so as to enable them to properly be
     consulted – nor was it made public until late February 2014 when
     implementation was about to begin.

Further detailed argument on these shortcomings and lack of compliance with
applicable Bank standards and policies will be provided upon registration of my
clients’ Request for Inspection.

Worse, the terms of the retroactive RAP for persons affected by 23
February 2013 forced eviction changed substantially, to the affected
persons' detriment, after initiation of the pilot process.

At the time the pilot process initiated in early November 2013, the terms of the
proposed RAP were those discussed at the meetings between the Lagos State
Technical Committee on Badia East, representatives of affected persons and
their prior counsel on 23 September 2013. The amounts of financial assistance
at that time were:

  •   N114,200 for tenants,
  •   N261,811.25 for landlords with "small" structures,
  •   N426,677 for landlords with "medium" structures, and
  •   N532,769 for landlords with "large" structures.

Affected persons also asked and were told by the Lagos State Technical
Committee in the 23 September meeting that persons accepting this financial
assistance would not be asked to sign any document waiving their right to
pursue other claims.




                                           
Shortly after the pilot process began, the Lagos State Government unilaterally
lowered the amounts of financial assistance to:

   •   N90,400 for tenants;
   •   N171.725 for landlords with "small" structures;
   •   N248,740 for landlords with "medium" structures; and
   •   N309,780 for landlords with "large" structures.

This represents a substantial reduction in financial assistance (ranging between
21% to 42%) to affected persons. Worse, it was presented on 20 November
2013 and subsequently as a "take it or leave it" option.

When implementation of the RAP began in February 2014—contrary to what
had been communicated clearly in the September 2013 discussions when
community representatives were assisted by counsel—affected persons were
made, in order to be verified to receive financial assistance, to sign a document
indemnifying the Lagos State Government against any further claim related to
the 23 February 2014 demolition. See Exhibit D.

Further, it must be noted that the implementation of the RAP began a full year
after the forced eviction at Badia East, during which affected persons had
received no relief whatsoever. Indeed, some affected persons are still yet to
receive any financial assistance 16 months after their eviction. This hugely
unjust delay exacerbates the desperation of already impoverished persons.

It should be noted that the underlying financial assistance calculations, though
hugely inadequate to the losses suffered, were premised on a period of 7
months post-demolition delay (as of September 2013). Nothing was done to
update the sums to account for the further delay of 5-9 months and counting.

Lastly, after the pilot process began, terms that were meant to provide a
modicum of "livelihood assistance" to affected persons and, thereby, in some
small way offset the fact that they were not being resettled, as required by
Bank resettlement policies, were unilaterally removed.

Requesters have the right to request registration at any time

Lastly, my clients understand from their prior counsel that throughout the e-
mail correspondence and a phone conversation on 15 October 2014 about the
possibility of entering the “pilot process,” Mr. Peter Lallas, the Executive
Secretary of this Honourable Panel, repeatedly gave them assurance that they
could, at any point, withdraw from the “pilot process” and request for
registration of their request. I refer to the highlighted portion of an e-mail
appearing within Exhibit A.

This guarantee is further captured in this Honourable Panel’s Notice of Receipt
of Request dated 11 November 2013, which states on p. 4:




                                           
    “Also, in line with the Pilot approach, the Requesters have the right at
    any time to indicate that they are not satisfied and would like the
    Panel to register their Request.”

Further to the point, the Requesters have informed me that their position has
been consistent since they initiated their Request for Inspection. They want
resettlement and adequate compensation that is in line with World Bank
resettlement policies and the Lagos State Government’s commitments under
the LMDGP project agreement. They have never expressed satisfaction that
their concerns are being adequately addressed—nor have they instructed
counsel to do so.

Indeed, 16 months after their forced displacement and 8 months after the
initiation of the pilot process aimed at “early resolution,” the Requesters feel
quite certain in their dissatisfaction and, consequently, their respectful
insistence that their Request for Inspection be registered and this Honourable
Panel proceed to full inspection.

I appreciate in advance your prompt attention to this matter. Should you have
any questions, please contact me at kkobuba@gmail.com.

We reserve the right to make this letter public.

Sincerely yours,




Kalu K. Obuba, Esq.
Counsel to the Requesters
Obuba & Obuba Legal Practitioners









                                            
Exhibit A. Conditional Acceptance Letter from Badia East Representatives




                                           --&Mm
                                 BADIA EAST COMMUN


             f1lf CNUINtt.
            '""°' St•f•
            c
                                  ~
                           Gow.fl'lmetlf
                  n...on...-.r••'-
                Otnc• ot IM Ale      ""'°"""~
           Stilbr S«rewf.lt,
           Al..... lke)a

           O..r Sir




              J TltaltM•••u•!JM ,,,___. ..... 2          P•
                  ,,......._...,._ ,,,,.,.... "
              • Tlllt lllO Jl!I .. ,,.,,, _ ........ .

                 lhlll*ID
                  ~.,._             . . . ,. rd.,.
                                  ••---toowndwl
6/9/2014                                                                                                                   Gmail - Checking in
                   Exhibit B. Communications with Inspection Panel
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Megan Chapman <mschapman@gmail.com>



 Checking in
 plallas@worldbank.org <plallas@worldbank.org>                                                                                                                                                                                       Mon, Nov 11, 2013 at 9:15 A
 To: "megan.c@serac.org" <megan.c@serac.org>
 Cc: "Andrew W. Maki" <andrew.m@serac.org>, "Felix C. Morka" <seracnig@aol.com>, "mschapman@gmail.com" <mschapman@gmail.com>, sselwan@worldbank.org

   Dear Megan,

   I just wanted to follow-up our correspondence to say that we would be pleased to be in touch again by phone if helpful to discuss any questions or next steps. I am leaving town this evening (DC time) for some work travel but will be available remotely
   and by cell once off the airplane.

   I hope that all is well, best regards,

   Peter

   Sent from my iPhone

   Begin forwarded message:


           From: "Peter Lallas" <plallas@worldbank.org>
           Date: November 8, 2013 at 4:15:47 PM EST
           To: "Megan Chapman" <megan.c@serac.org>
           Cc: "Andrew W. Maki" <andrew.m@serac.org>,"felix@serac.org" <felix@serac.org>, Ipanel@worldbank.org,mschapman@gmail.com,"Felix C. Morka" <seracnig@aol.com>, sselwan@worldbank.org
           Subject: Re: Request for Inspection - Project P071340


           Dear Megan,

           Thank you for your prompt and thoughtful reply, we appreciate it.

           Yes, as you indicate, the Panel will refer your questions to Bank Management and also reference them in the Panel's Note to the Board.

           In terms of your question about next steps, what we can envision is along the lines of the following. The Panel will formally send its Note to the Board soon. This Note will indicate that the Panel has received the Request, describe it,
           include some information about the Project, attach the actions and commitments set forth in writing by Management, and refer to the important questions that you and the community are asking of Bank Management. The Note will also
           recognize the right of you and the community at any time to indicate that you are not satisfied with progress made in subsequent dialogue, and that you would like the Panel to register the Request. We will provide all this information to
           you and Management, and also post it publicly on our website.

           At that stage, the window for the dialogue under the pilot will formally begin, and we will ask and encourage you and Management to be in touch with each other directly. At that point, and in the very beginning as you think best, you can
           certainly indicate again to Management the importance/need of having a response to your questions in order for the dialogue to be successful. We also hope, as we've mentioned to you earlier, to receive the RAP(s) as soon as possible.

           During this dialogue, the Panel will ask you and Management to keep it informed of developments and progress, but otherwise will generally step back to give this direct dialogue its best opportunity for success in meeting the concerns of
           the community. As we've indicated before, we believe that Management has strong incentives and, as we understand it, commitment at this stage to listen and take actions to try to address the concerns. As we've also indicated, you and
                                                                                  r not receiving
           the community have the right to inform the Panel at any time that you are    re          re
                                                                                                    r sponse to your questions and are
                                                                                        r ceiving a response                                                 pro
                                                                                                                                                              r gre
                                                                                                                                    r not satisfied with the progress,
                                                                                                                                                                 r ss, and would like the Panel to register
                                                                                                                                                                                                    re
                                                                                                                                                                                                    r gister the Request.

           I hope that this is helpful and responds to your questions? Thanks again for your message, we'll look forward to being in touch soon. In the meantime, please do not hesitate to contact me with any additional questions or for additional
           information.

           Best regards,

           Peter

           Peter Lallas
           Executive Secretary
           The Inspection Panel
           The World Bank
           1818 H St., N. W. Washington, D.C. 20433
           ' + 1-202-473-9732 7 + 1-202-522-0916 * plallas@worldbank.org
           Website: www.inspectionpanel.org
           Megan Chapman ---11/08/2013 06:49:36 AM---Dear Peter, Thank you for the very prompt response to our email of yesterday. We


           From: Megan Chapman <megan.c@serac.org>
           To: plallas@worldbank.org
           Cc: "Andrew W. Maki" <andrew.m@serac.org>, "felix@serac.org" <felix@serac.org>, Ipanel@worldbank.org, "Felix C. Morka" <seracnig@aol.com>, sselwan@worldbank.org
           Date: 11/08/2013 06:49 AM
           Subject: Re: Request for Inspection - Project P071340
           Sent by: mschapman@gmail.com

https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?ui=2&ik=dd11adf7b9&view=pt&q=sselwan&qs=true&search=query&msg=1424784b3fb31275&siml=1424784b3fb31275                                                                                                                     1/17
6/9/2014                                                                                                        Gmail - Checking in




           Dear Peter,

           Thank you for the very prompt response to our email of yesterday. We understand that you will be referring the questions to Bank Management and also referencing them in
                                                                                       information,
           your Note to the Board. Once we have received the requested documents and info                        aff
                                                                                                                   f ected community members would be quite ready and willing to
                                                                                         f rmation, we and the affected
           engage in direct dialogue with Management about our outstanding issues and concerns.
           Do I understand correctly that we should, at this stage, await further information from you on responses to our questions and how/when direct dialogue will proceed?

           Many thanks for all your efforts.

           Kind regards,
           Megan


           On Thu, Nov 7, 2013 at 3:02 PM, <plallas@worldbank.org> wrote:
                             Dear Megan,

                             Many thanks for your message, and for all the efforts in reviewing these matters.

                             We appreciate the importance of the questions you raise, and in fact have ourselves asked for a copy of the RAP(s), which Management has indicated it will
                             provide.

                             I've consulted with the Panel and what we suggest is that we can both pass on these questions to Management and also refer to them in the Panel's Note to
                             the Board. In this context, direct dialogue could then begin with these key questions and the new Management plan of actions and commitments via the
                             opportunity for this dialogue under the pilot. Please note in this regard that you and the community as requesters will have the right at any time to inform the
                             Panel that your questions are not being answered and you are not satisfied. Our sense is that the dialogue on this basis should give a full opportunity for the
                             people to pose and receive answers to their questions. We know that Bank Management is ready and willing to engage on this at a high level, and
                             understand that they have a full commitment to addressing and resolving these concerns.

                             We hope that this looks like a positive and constructive approach, and appreciate all the effort and attention to this. We look forward to hearing from you.

                             Best regards,

                             Peter
                Peter Lallas
                Executive Secretary
                The Inspection Panel
                The World Bank
                1818 H St., N. W. Washington, D.C. 20433
                ' + 1-202-473-9732 7 + 1-202-522-0916 * plallas@worldbank.org
                Website: www.inspectionpanel.org

                  Megan Chapman ---11/07/2013 06:31:52 AM---

                From: Megan Chapman <megan.c@serac.org>
                To: plallas@worldbank.org
                Cc: "Andrew W. Maki" <andrew.m@serac.org>, "felix@serac.org" <felix@serac.org>, Ipanel@worldbank.org, "Felix C. Morka" <seracnig@aol.com>, sselwan@worldbank.org
                Date: 11/07/2013 06:31 AM

                Subject: Re: Request for Inspection - Project P071340

https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?ui=2&ik=dd11adf7b9&view=pt&q=sselwan&qs=true&search=query&msg=1424784b3fb31275&siml=1424784b3fb31275                                                          2/17
6/9/2014                                                                                       Gmail - Checking in
             Sent by: mschapman@gmail.com




             Dear Peter,

             Sorry for the delayed response. We have been carefully reviewing the memorandum prepared by the Bank Management. While we agree that the document includes
                    information
                      f rmation and commitments from Management, we felt it unfortunately
             useful info                                                        f rtunately falls short of providing suff
                                                                              unfo                                   sufficient
                                                                                                                       f icient concrete info
                                                                                                                                         information
                                                                                                                                           f rmation to enable us and the community to
                                                                                                                                      fo
                                                                                                                                      f llowing:
             evaluate what is on the table and monitor progress over the coming months. Accordingly, we would like to request the following:

             1. A copy of the 2012 RAP produced aftafter                demolition/forced
                                                                                   f rced eviction. To the best of our knowledge, this document has never been made public to the
                                                    f er the March 2012 demolition/fo
             Project
                o ect Affected
             Proj      f ected Persons (PAPs), through the World Bank website, or otherw
                      Aff                                                          otherwise.
                                                                                        r ise.

             2. A copy of the most recent revision of the 2013 RAP (or addendum to the 2012 RAP as was originally indicated) pertaining to the February 2013 demolition, which
             was expected from Lagos State Government on October 28, 2013, along with any/all related documents pertaining to implementation plan, schedule of activities,
                                                       f r us and the community to be able to independently evaluate the revisions made against the standards outlined in OP 4.12
                                                       fo
             budget, etc. It is particularly important for
             requiring adequate alternatives to resettlement if resettlement is not on the table. For instance, does the package for f r tenants adequately enable them to resettle
                                                                                                                                     fo
                                                                                                                off
                                                                                                                 f ered sufficiently
             themselves in a situation where they will have security of tenure? Does the livelihoods support offered      f iciently offset
                                                                                                                        suff           ffset the lack of resettlement? Similarly, it is critical
                                                                                                                                     off
             that we understand the more detailed implementation plan so we can monitor progress throughout the implementation period, enabling us to mediate community
             expectations and anticipate whether the final deadline will be met.

                                                   fo
                                                   f r the grievance mechanism with reference to the December 16, 2013 deadline for
             3. Clarification about the timetable for                                                                              f r implementation of the RAP and the January 31,
                                                                                                                                   fo
             2014 deadline fo for
                              f r close of the "grace period" forf r the credit under LMDGP. As we have already informed
                                                                 fo                                               f rmed Bank Management, we expect no fewer than 350 persons who
                                                                                                                info
             feel they were wrongfully left    f the final list to be submitting grievances. The grievance mechanism, as we understand, is multi-staged and several of the stages may
                                            f off
             lack requisite independence. Even if the grievance mechanism commences immediately, we are concerned that there may not be enough time between now and
             January 31, 2014 to process all grievances. Does the Bank Management's commitment to extend the grace period to complete implementation of the RAP include
             completing the processing of grievances and payment to persons whose grievances are resolved in their favor?

             I hope these requests are clear and can be communicated to Bank Management fo     for
                                                                                               f r consideration. With the above three requests satisfied, we will be prepared to go
             forward
             f
             fo rw                                    f normal processing of our Request fo
                r ard with the pilot program and put off                                 for
                                                                                         f               for
                                                                                                         f
                                                                                           r Inspection fo r three months, as previously discussed.

             Many thanks again for your efforts and patience with our sometimes slow response time.

             Kind regards,
             Megan


             On Wed, Nov 6, 2013 at 10:29 PM, <plallas@worldbank.org> wrote:
                     Dear Megan,

                        Many thanks for your earlier message and follow-up on this matter.

                        I'm writing to check in to see if you have any news from your side. A couple of us will depart soon for another Panel-related matter, and hope to be in touch
                        before then if possible.

                        We hope that all is well. Thanks again for your work and efforts on this.



                        Best regards, Peter


https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?ui=2&ik=dd11adf7b9&view=pt&q=sselwan&qs=true&search=query&msg=1424784b3fb31275&siml=1424784b3fb31275                                                             3/17
6/9/2014   Exhibit C. Communications with Bank Management                          Gmail - Follow-Up re: RAP for Badia East




                                                                                                                                      Megan Chapman <mschapman@gmail.com>



  Follow-Up re: RAP for Badia East
  Mmarienelly@worldbank.org <Mmarienelly@worldbank.org>                                                                 Fri, Nov 29, 2013 at 8:36 AM
  To: Megan Chapman <megan.c@serac.org>
  Cc: sarnaout@worldbank.org, csage@worldbank.org, "Felix C. Morka" <seracnig@aol.com>, felix@serac.org, "Andrew W. Maki" <andrew.m@serac.org>,
  "olamide.u" <olamide.u@serac.org>, Abakalian@worldbank.org, Abezeredi@worldbank.org, Jsaghir@worldbank.org, ikonjhodzic@worldbank.org


     Dear Megan, as I mentioned to you, I am on the road on a field mission and only read my email through my blackberry. Note also that Washington is
     on Thanksgiving holiday.

     Secondly, given the fact that an inspection panel request
                                                       re                         re
                                                                                  r stricts the nature
                                                       r quest has been filed, it restricts         r of communication we can have with the complainant.

     Nevertheless, I would like to reitarate our commitment to ensure that the process is completed for the benefit of the evicted people.

     Best regards. MFMN


      From: Megan Chapman [megan.c@serac.org]
      Sent: 11/29/2013 01:07 PM CET
      To: Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
      Cc: Sateh Chafic El-Arnaout; Caroline Mary Sage; "Felix C. Morka" <seracnig@aol.com>; "felix@serac.org" <felix@serac.org>; "Andrew W. Maki"
     <andrew.m@serac.org>; "olamide.u" <olamide.u@serac.org>; Alexander E. Bakalian; Alexandra C. Bezeredi; Jamal Saghir; Indira Konjhodzic
      Subject: Re: Follow-Up re: RAP for Badia East


     Dear Mrs. Marie-Nelly,

     Thank you for the prompt response. The reason for our concern, and indeed the subject of my email of last Friday, relates to what was communicated
     during the meeting convened by the Lagos State Government last week: that the previously-agreed compensation amounts have been unilaterally
     reduced to a level that is grossly inadequate to comport with the RPF and OP 4.12.

     The urgency of this email and the requests we raise is based on the real and continuing suffering of evictees -- which is only worsened as each day
     passes. Evictees cannot pay their rent, cannot pay for medical emergencies, and there are mounting numbers of deaths among the evictee community
     due to treatable illnesses for which they can not afford treatment. Some people remain without a roof over their head -- now 9 months since their
     eviction.

     On behalf of the evictees, I respectfully ask for responses to the direct requests raised in my email of last Friday:

           1. A copy of the 2012 RAP produced after the March 2012 demolition/forced eviction.
           2. A copy of the most recent revision of the 2013 RAP (or addendum to the 2012 RAP) pertaining to the February 2013 demolition, along with
https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?ui=2&ik=dd11adf7b9&view=pt&q=plallas%40worldbank.org&qs=true&search=query&msg=142a413a9db4613f&dsqt=1&siml=142a413a9db4613f           1/5
6/9/2014                                                                           Gmail - Follow-Up re: RAP for Badia East
               any/all related documents pertaining to implementation plan, schedule of activities, budget, etc.
            3. Clarification about the timetable for the grievance mechanism with reference to the December 16, 2013 deadline for implementation of the RAP
               and the January 31, 2014 deadline for close of the "grace period" for the credit under LMDGP.

     Additionally, in light of what you just communicated about receiving a revised RAP from LASG an hour ago, perhaps your team could promptly inform
     us (1) whether this RAP reflects the same lower numbers that were offered to the community representatives last week and, if so, (2) what the World
     Bank intends to do with the revised proposal.

     We are convening a meeting today with the evictees which will commence shortly, and we would like to give them concrete information about the steps
     the World Bank has taken in response to the inadequate offer of compensation by the Lagos State Government.

     Many thanks in advance.

     Best,
     Megan


     On Fri, Nov 29, 2013 at 11:57 AM, <Mmarienelly@worldbank.org> wrote:

           Dear Megan, Thank you for your message. As I write to you, I am in the field on an assignment with Kogi State.

           I am sure that you are aware that the RAP was recently discussed at the Lagos Government Executive Council and Subsequently revised and
           discussed with the communities at a meeting last week where I understand SERAC was represented.

           We have just received, an hour ago, the revised document by email and our team will review it and will come back to the Government accordingly.

           I may have missed your last email in the numerous ones that I am receiving daily. This does not mean that we are not in action. Rather, we have
           been in daily contact with the Lagos authorities to have this revised document.

           As I have informed Mr Morka, we are equally concerned about the conditions of the affected people and I believe that we have demonstrated it
           through the steps we have consistently taken since the advent of the evictions last February.

           Regards. MFMN


            From: Megan Chapman [megan.c@serac.org]
            Sent: 11/29/2013 11:21 AM CET
            To: Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
            Cc: Sateh Chafic El-Arnaout; Caroline Mary Sage; "Felix C. Morka" <seracnig@aol.com>; "felix@serac.org" <felix@serac.org>; "Andrew W. Maki"
           <andrew.m@serac.org>; "olamide.u" <olamide.u@serac.org>
            Subject: Re: Follow-Up re: RAP for Badia East


           Dear Mrs. Marie-Nelly,

           We are troubled not to have had any response to our email of last Friday, or to the requests for information originally made via the Inspection Panel

https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?ui=2&ik=dd11adf7b9&view=pt&q=plallas%40worldbank.org&qs=true&search=query&msg=142a413a9db4613f&dsqt=1&siml=142a413a9db4613f      2/5
6/9/2014                                                                           Gmail - Follow-Up re: RAP for Badia East
           over three weeks ago. This is despite several attempts to make contact with yourself, Sateh and Caroline by phone over the course of this week.

           The affected persons in Badia East are in a very difficult position, which is worsened by having no information whatsoever about any actions being
           taken by the World Bank. Unfortunately, it seems we have no choice at this juncture but to update the Inspection Panel of the latest developments
           and the lack of communication from Bank Management under the Pilot Process.

           We hope to receive responses to our outstanding requests and providing information about what steps the World Bank is taking, if any, at the soonest
           possible moment. Thank you in advance.

           Kind regards,
           Megan


           On Mon, Nov 25, 2013 at 10:53 AM, Megan Chapman <megan.c@serac.org> wrote:
            Dear Mrs. Marie-Nelly,

             Please see below our email to Sateh El Arnout and Caroline Sage on Friday. My apologies for not copying you on the original message. We look
             forward to hearing a response from your team as soon as possible.

             Kind regards,
             Megan

             ---------- Forwarded message ----------
             From: "Megan Chapman" <megan.c@serac.org>
             Date: Nov 22, 2013 3:47 PM
             Subject: Follow-Up re: RAP for Badia East
             To: "sarnaout@worldbank.org" <sarnaout@worldbank.org>, "csage@worldbank.org" <csage@worldbank.org>
             Cc: "Felix C. Morka" <seracnig@aol.com>, "felix@serac.org" <felix@serac.org>, "Andrew W. Maki" <andrew.m@serac.org>, "olamide.u"
             <olamide.u@serac.org>


             Dear Sateh and Caroline,



             We write to you under the auspices of the “pilot process” aimed at early resolution of the Request for Inspection we filed with the World Bank
             Inspection Panel on behalf of members of the Badia East community. We also write as follow-up to the meeting held on Wednesday, November 20,
             2013 between the Lagos State Government’s Steering Committee and Technical Committee on Badia East, representatives of the Badia East
             community, and SERAC representatives, with Caroline representing the World Bank as an observer.



             First, as was no doubt observed during the meeting, the community representatives were sorely disappointed by the Lagos State Government’s
             decision to revise down the compensation package to below the numbers originally proposed on September 18, 2013 or those subsequently agreed
             to (by most representatives) on September 23, 2013. It is their and our opinion, with which we believe you will agree, that the amounts are in no
             way sufficient to compensate the various harms suffered by evictees or to enable them to resettle themselves in line with the LMDGP
             Resettlement Policy Framework or the World Bank Safeguard Policies in OP 4.12.
https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?ui=2&ik=dd11adf7b9&view=pt&q=plallas%40worldbank.org&qs=true&search=query&msg=142a413a9db4613f&dsqt=1&siml=142a413a9db4613f     3/5
6/9/2014                                                                           Gmail - Follow-Up re: RAP for Badia East



           Second, we understand that a key document forming part of the record of consultation with the community representatives on the initially proposed
           RAP (September 18-23, 2013) was not included in the report Lagos State Government submitted to the World Bank at the end of September 2013.
           Therefore, we hereby send you the two reports prepared by a Government-registered quantity surveyor with a quote for the costs of rebuilding a 10-
           room wooden building and a 10-room block building at Badia East, which were intended to offer a price comparison to the numbers unilaterally
           proposed by the Lagos State Government.



           Additionally, we wanted to share some additional information from the Lagos Bureau of Statistics’ 2012 Household Survey, which offers information
           about average household rents paid and costs of construction for homes in the Apapa-Iganmu LCDA (where Badia East is located). These
           statistics also indicate that the amounts proposed for rent and reconstruction are very low for the area. Our concern is that they will not enable
           resettlement with adequate security of tenure.



           We expect that the World Bank Country Office will take all available measures necessary to encourage the Lagos State Government to provide a
           compensation package that complies with the RPF and OP 4.12 as per its contractual obligations.



           Finally, Wednesday’s meeting has given some insights into reasons for the delay in responding to our requests that we believe the Inspection
           Panel forwarded to you. Nevertheless, we would like to reiterate our requests (copied below).



           Kind regards,

           Megan



           1. A copy of the 2012 RAP produced after the March 2012 demolition/forced eviction. To the best of our knowledge, this document has never been
           made public to the Project Affected Persons (PAPs), through the World Bank website, or otherwise.



           2. A copy of the most recent revision of the 2013 RAP (or addendum to the 2012 RAP as was originally indicated) pertaining to the February 2013
           demolition, which was expected from Lagos State Government on October 28, 2013, along with any/all related documents pertaining to
           implementation plan, schedule of activities, budget, etc. It is particularly important for us and the community to be able to independently evaluate
           the revisions made against the standards outlined in OP 4.12 requiring adequate alternatives to resettlement if resettlement is not on the table. For
           instance, does the package for tenants adequately enable them to resettle themselves in a situation where they will have security of tenure? Does
           the livelihoods support offered sufficiently offset the lack of resettlement? Similarly, it is critical that we understand the more detailed
           implementation plan so we can monitor progress throughout the implementation period, enabling us to mediate community expectations and
           anticipate whether the final deadline will be met.


https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?ui=2&ik=dd11adf7b9&view=pt&q=plallas%40worldbank.org&qs=true&search=query&msg=142a413a9db4613f&dsqt=1&siml=142a413a9db4613f      4/5
                              .,
Exhibit D. Form Used in RAP Veriﬁcation Process




                              -
                      BADIA EAST RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN - Beneficiary Information Form


                      SINO:



                      Name: _____________________________________

                      Address: (where displaced from): _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __


                      Address (present): _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __



                      Age:                                                           Gender:
                      Marital Status:                                                Tel. No.:
                      Occupation:
                      Status (Structure Owner/Tenant)-·_ _ _ _ _ __
                      Form of Identification:
                     · Compensation sum receivable (H) (in words):


                      ACCOUNTS DETAILS;
                      Name of Bank: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

                      Account Name: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

                      Account N u m b e r : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

                      Branch Name: _ _        -==========================================:=:=:=:=:=::.._.....,
                      AFFIRMATION:
                      I                                                  hereby relinquish all claims to damages, compensation or
                      restitution , whether financial or otherwise, or other legal or equitable rights which I may have in respect
                      of any loss suffered in consequence of my displacement of 23rd February 2013, from the Badia East area.




                         Slgnatur< & Dute                      Signature & Date                       Signature & Date

                         Chairman Technical                     Beneficiary Slgnaturetrhu01b          LM DGP Auditor
                         Committee                             Print

                                    LAGOS METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT & GOVERNANCE PROJECT (LMDGP)
ANNEX IV
From:           seracnig <seracnig@aol.com>
To:             ewatanabe1@worldbank.org
Date:           07/10/2014 02:46 PM
Subject:        Fw: BADIA-EAST LETTER




Dear Eimi:

Thank you for your email. Please accept my apologies for the delay in sending my letter. After
our conference call, I went back to cross check, one more time, in order to make certain that
the information I had provided fully reflected the will of the community.

I write to convey the Badia East community's expression of satisfaction with the
implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan for Badia East thus far. I also convey their
expression of satisfaction with the pilot process of the World Bank Inspection Panel. Although
there are outstanding commitments to be met under the RAP, the community is satisfied with
the seriousness that the Lagos state government and the Bank management have
demonstrated towards resolving outstanding issues arising from the February 13, 2013 forced
eviction in Badia East.

We humbly request the the Panel to obligate the Bank management to ensure that the
outstanding commitments under the RAP are fully performed.

Attached please find a letter issued by the leaders and representatives of the Badia East
community dissociating themselves from the letter forwarded to the Panel and other entities
by Albert Olorunwa and Prince Ilawole regarding the status of the pilot process.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Best regards,

Felix Morka
Executive Director
SERAC

(See attached file: Letter 001.jpg)


                Letter 001.jpg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                            BADIA EAST COMMUNITY

I
f
f     .•
                                                                                                         : (AJEROMI & OKE-ILU ERi COMMUNITIES)

[                     .·. The Chainnan .                                                                                                                                                                  July 8, 2014
f                         .Lagos State ·Government,                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
~ · - - · ·. ·. ·. Technical Committee on Badia East
t
                                                           .   '         .

                              Dear Madam,

                             ·RE: RESSIDLEMENT ACTION PLAN


                                                                                                                                                    b-                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                '                                                                                                     .
                               OU~ att~nt!oo ~s~~~,t~ a p~ti~ion wr~en b                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                               -and,                                                         on the
                               above subJect matter to a certain mternat1onal

                         We ·~1$h to state categork:ally that th~ intents of the letter did not emanate from our c:Ommunlty as
                         there WH no con~uttation wtiatsoev~ with stakeholders before such representation was made and as
                .. ·: .: $.IJ!h w• .dlSas~ia~~~hiesfrom same. . .                                                   ;. . ..
f..
                                                                                   .                                        .                                                                                .
                 ·· . · Let us state Sf;r9ngly th•t we ar·e quite satisfied ·with the implementation of the reset:tlein~t a¢ti(>n ptan,
                . , ··a~·Qver80% ~fourpeoP}ehay~beenpa(d theagreedsu_!l', though few p~ple are yetto·~.~p~ldd~~to
                        technical problems~ but We are working with the committee on the matter and ate quite convinced that
                                          •                                  ..    .        .                       I                                                                                                                         '                  .

                        It will be done soonest. ·

                               We apologise to ·the~~ ~r any erribarrassment that.such an unwarranted~- ne:edless .
                  ..           petitrO~. ~-~h~:P'~~                                                                                 ·                                                                                 ·              ·
                                                                                                     ... _,
                          ··:.:.    • •• ..I                   ~T        •    '>       ~·       .1       •              '                   •               .                                         '       •   •       ••     •   . : '   ••.    •



                                                                  CQmrf}ittee f<! its good w~rk and the govemmentQf t.apState.
                              We use this medlum:to Thank that the_
                              as well as tbeWoel¢:5-Jdn ensuring th;'t ou,"~ie ere given some comfort. "'        . . ' . ·"
                                   -~:·-:~.:':   .   ;(:~~:/; .:;7~:··:..~:;~·-.. ... ~~·                ..·...~:·.: ·          .       .       .   '   '-~!>-;   .   .·.... ·· -                                              t.~


                               Thanks:

                                   Yours faithfully;                                                                                                                                                                      '..

                  ·.·                          ~of/.                          . -..                                                                                                                                             ~:




                  ·:. ~ ~la EgbaYero-·-~.·
      ,,, .. '· .:.
                      .
                      ,.: ~ri•fteader, .Ajeromi
                                                 )'\J~
                                                                                                             ., .                                                                            Ch~f~edU:~                                                     ..       ·'.:.




                          .- P~~llam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L.t      ~-
                                   Mike
                                   . Egbayelo
                                        ..
                                              ·.                                                                                                                                                              Abiye OshihcMle . ·                                        ·

                                   Mrs BiOla 0SU'lyeml
                                                                    ·-        ••       r                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                    . ·'-.   ~-




                                                               ~:.·.
ANNEXV
  THE WORLD BANKIJFC/MIGA

  OFFICE MEMORANDUM
     DATE:   July 14, 2014

       TO:   Eimi Watanabe, Chair, Inspection Panel

    FROM:    Makhtar Diop, Vice President, AFR

EXTENSION:   89330

  SUBJECT:   Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project
             Badia East Resettlement Action Plan Implementation - Update

        1.   Building on our earlier communications with you on the referenced subject, I wanted to
             give you an update on the progress of the implementation of this RAP and the remaining
             actions to be completed before preparing the final RAP implementation report. I would also
             like to take this opportunity to underscore Management's firm commitment to maintain
             oversight to the full conclusion of the payments to the affected people, and to inform the
             World Bank's Executive Board on final RAP implementation. The Lagos State
             Government {LASG) is also committed to ensuring the RAP is completed in compliance
             with the Bank's requirements.

       2.    The Bank team has been working closely dw·ing the past months with all the parties involved
             in RAP implementation, notably the Government of Lagos, the Technical Committee, and
             representatives of the communities. As you know from your recent visit, our country-based
             team has continued to supervise very closely the process of payments through regular visits
             to Lagos since January 20 14 when the RAP was approved. A Bank mission led by the
             Country Director visited Lagos to a) review progress towards implementation completion, b)
             review the financial transaction processes to iron out remaining constraints; (c) work with
             LASG and the Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) on feedback arrangements; (d)
             review the Grievance Redress Mechanism; and (e) meet with key stakeholders (community
             representatives, SER.AC, PFMU and Technical Committee (TC)).

       3.    The current implementation progress is summarized in the table below:
     Eimi Watanabe                                         -2-                                     July 14, 2014


                                                                            Number
                                                   Total number Number submitted to Actual % of original % of original
                                                         of      cleared by PFMUfor number RAP de a red RAP paid to
         Category of beneficiaries                 beneficiaries TC to date payment  paid    to date         date
                                                         a            b        c      d          e             f
         Tenants                                         1,933     1,760        1,746   1,555       91.05%     80.44%
         Small structure owners                             22        23           23      23      104.55%    104.55%
         Medium structure owners                           189       177          177     150       93.65%     79.37%
         Large structure owners                            108       109          109     103      100.93%     95.37%
         Category C {omitted beneficiaries)                137        63           63      63       45.99%     45.99%
         Category D(other omitted beneficiaries}             4         4            4       4      100.00%    100.00%
         Grand Total                                     2,393     2,136        2,122   1,898      89.36%      84.29%

     Notes:

         (1) Categories of beneficiaries C and D are beneficiaries who were nol captured in the approved RAP of
             January 201 4, but later included through verification.

         (2) Column (a): Beneficiaries as listed in the RAP submitted by the LASG and approved by the Bank in
              January 2014.

         (3) Column (b): The number of beneficiaries who have so far been cleared by the LASG Technical
             Committee for payment. The difference between columns (a) and (b) represents beneficiaries yet to be
             validated by the technical committee due to instances such as unavailability of the beneficiaries,
             incorrect documentation, incomplete documentation etc.

         (4) Column (c): The figures in this column represent the number of PAPs who have so far been submitted
             to the PFMU for payment. The Technical Committee policy is to batch the beneficiary lists cleared by it
             prior to its submission to the PFMU for payment. The difference (14) between columns (b) and (c)
             represents the batched list yet to be sent to the PFMU.

         (5) Column (d): This is the actual number of PAPs who have received compensation as of July 10, 2014.
             The difference between Column (c) and Column (d) of 224 accounts is the additional list of 199
             beneficiaries currently being processed for payment, plus 25 failed transactions. Failed transactions
             have been linked to issues such as incorrect account numbers, no account numbers, and, in many cases,
             the incompatibility of interbank platforms such as the online transfer between Skye Bank (LASG' s
             bank) and Fidelity Bank (the bank for some of the RAP beneficiaries). This incompatibility led to the
             failure of about 129 transactions, leading to the non~payment to these beneficiaries. This has now been
             addressed by resorting to payment by an analogue system, where cheques are paid directly to the
             beneficiaries' banks.

4.   In summary, of the total number of beneficiaries in the initial RAP of 2,393, about 89.3%
     (2,136 beneficiaries) have been cleared to date by the Technical Committee. Of this number,
     a total of 2,122 beneficiaries have been submitted for payment or are being processed for
     payment ( 1,923 beneficiaries were initially sent to the PFMU for payment, with an additional
     list of 199 beneficiaries currently being processed for payment as indicated above). The Bank
     mission in its latest visit was informed that the Technical Committee is using various
     channels of communication (including mass media) to reach out to those PAPs who have yet
     to come forward or present adequate identification to claim their payments.
     Eimi Watanabe                                                                                 -3-                                                             July 14, 2014


5.    Next Steps: The Bank team will continue to monitor the remammg actions until all
      beneficiaries who have been cleared are paid their compensation. Specifically the next steps
      include the following:

         •   The community representatives have agreed to work v..ith the Technical Committee
             from July 9-11, 2014 to process all PAPs who are yet to be cleared for payment.

         •   Grievance Redress Mechanism: At the request of the Technical Committee Chainnan,
             the cut-off date for receipt of grievances was extended from July 3 to July 11, 2014, to
             enable the P APs who have yet to claim the RAP entitlements to come forward. On its
             part, the Citizen's Mediation Center (CMC) would work with community
             representatives (and SERAC as an observer) to resolve all outstanding grievances from
             July 14-25, 2014.

         •   Feedback mechanism between the PFMU and the Bank: the PFMU will copy the
             World Bank in all future communications with the Technical Committee and the
             respective commercial banks. This will enable the Bank to ascertain prompt follow-up
             of names cleared for payment and fully monitor the project's response time to
             remaining issues, while providing all other requisite suppott to enable the Project
             effect payment to all the respective beneficiaries by end of July 2014.

         •   The Teclmical Committee, CMC, PFMU and community representatives will complete
             the remaining activities as outlined in the Action plan set out below:

     ;Process pay~e~t·                                              iiiee.to ·····[July 14~3i, 26'14.. . [Technical co~-ittee ·· ..
                                        for ·The Tech.rlicai coillin.
     'all verified genuine                                iw ork with the PFMU to ensure ,
     :claims resolved via                                .t hat new RAP beneficiaries
     ~Grievance Redress                                  .:c aptured under the Grievance
     ;Mechanism                                          '.Redress Mechanism are
                                                         processed for payment.
                •   •   ••   • • •   •• ..   ... • • •        '   •   ,   •   ••   •••••   ••• •    •      • • • • • -·   ••   -·   •• •   ••   ...   .... •   J              ••• · - · · .   ... . . . .


     Livelihood           'T he PAPs w40 express interest                                                August 1-18, 2014 Technical Committee-
     Restoration training (in vocational training being                                                  ·                  This would be a
                          pffered by the Lagos State                                                                       :continuing process even
                          :oovernment can participate in                                                                   ;beyond September 30,
                          the training opportunities in 17                                               :                 ;2014. It is a matter of    :
                          !vocational training centres                                                   ·                 '.directing the PAPs to the '.
                          :across Lagos State.                                                                             ;appropriate training
                                                                                                                                                               ~centers.


      Final reporting and                                The Technical Committee will :August 18~3'1'; .........                                               :fechni~al Comrnit·t~e
     ·RAP closure                                        ~ork with the CMC and the    i20l4
                                                         ;PFMU to prepare a final RAP
                                                         ;implementation report to be
                                                         ~ubmitted to the World Bank.
