                                    RP342 V5

        LAGOS STATE GOVERNMENT

   TECHNICAL COMMITTEE ON BADIA EAST




REVIEWED RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RRAP)

  FOR DISPLACED PERSONS IN ·BADIA EAST




             PRESENTED TO:




            THE WORLD BANK

      102, YAKUBU GOWON CRESCENT,

     OPPOSITE ECOWAS SECRETARIAT,

           ASOKORO DISTRICT,

               ABUJA-FCT




            NOVEMBER, 2013
                                 TABLE OF CONTENT



CONTENT                                                           PAGE

Executive Summary                                                 1-3

Definitions                                                       4-6
List of Acronyms                                                  7

Chapter 1:    Background                                          8-15

Chapter 2:    Socioeconomic Pattern of Project Affected Persons   16-17

Chapter 3:    Legal Framework                                     18-22

Chapter 4:    Resettlement Option                                 23-29

Chapter 5:    Cost and Funding                                    30
Chapter 6:    Grievance Redress Mechanism                         31-32

Chapter 7:    Implementation Arrangement                          33

Chapter 8:    Monitoring and Evaluation                           34

List of Attachments                                               35
                                 Executive Summary

The Badia community in the Apapa lganmu Local Council Development Area of
Lagos State is one of the nine (9) identified slum areas earmarked for
regeneration/renewal under the World Bank funded Lagos Metropolitan
Development and Governance Project (LMDGP).

Badia East is popularly known as ljora Alawo. It comprises of two (2) communities
namely Oke llu Eri community and Ajeromi community. Badia East was an
unplanned settlement which lacks basic amenities such as access· roads, portable
water, sanitary and health facilities, drainages etc. There is however a Government
school in the area.

In line with Lagos State Policy on the provision of estates with infrastructural facilities
at concessionary rates for residential purposes, Lagos State Government has
embarked on the development of 1,008 Housing units beginning in the recently
cleared area to assist her citizenry in meeting their shelter aspirations and to replace
the unstructured shelters and shanties hitherto in the area.

The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) as developed is, as much as possible, in line
with the provisions of the Bank's Operation Policy OP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement. It builds on a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) that was
developed in 2005, updating it as necessary and translating the established
compensation criteria into concrete, time bound actions- based on displacement
impacts, current value consultations with PAPs and Community Representative.

The project impacted on a residential area of the community and is presumed to
affect 1,933 tenement households, including 319 owners of residential structures.
The land occupiers of Badia East fall amongst the poorest cadres in Lagos State.
The settlement used to be a transit camp for llaje people of Ondo State and other
ljaw areas of Nigeria, while other major settlers there were Kwara State indigenes
(lgbomina) people. Other tribes are the ljora indigenes and some Hausa cattle
settlers. These people migrated to Lagos in search of greener pastures. Based on
the information gathered, most of the inhabitants of the area are contract labourers,
hair dressers, sex workers, clerks and supervisors in companies, hotels and
factori.es, drivers and petty traders in sachet water, ice blocks, cooked and raw food;
soft drinks, beer, kerosene, scrap metal, cooking wood etc.

Although OP 4.12 provides adequate compensations and assistance to mitigate the
effects of involuntary displacement on persons, irrespective of their status or whether
they have formal titles, legal rights or not; or classified as squatters as is the case in
Badia, based on the sheer number of persons that claimed to have been affected by
the clearance of 3.22 hectares land area on the 23rd of February, 2013, it would be a
huge financial burden on Government to adopt the entitlement matrix used in the
2012 December RAP. Also, the amount payable under the 2012 matrix significantly
                                       Page 1 of 35
exceeds what the State Government normally pays as compensation even for
property acquired compulsorily from legitimate owners of approved properties.
Government was also mindful of setting a precedent or communicating a policy
whereby illegal occupiers of land without development permit have to be paid full
compensation upon eviction. As a result of this, the resettlement entitlements for
DPs in Badia are as follows:

•      Compensation for Owners of Structure - Valuation for Structure and Valuation
       for Household Assets.
•      Compensation for Tenants - Valuation for Household Assets, Rent for months
       prior to implementation of the RAP, a Year Rent plus Agreement and Agency
       Fee.
As the enumeration of DPs took place after the clearance, it was not possible to
ascertain the actual number of business tenants. To this end, they were categorized
as tenants for the purpose of resettlement.

Taking into consideration the number of rooms in a structure, as submitted at the
Verification Exercise by the affected persons, Quantity Surveyors did an estimate of
the number of planks, roofing sheets, nails, etc. required to put up the structure.
Valuation was based on of information as regards the number and types of materials
used to construct different categories of structures and current prices and rates of
items and labour collected in local markets. Structures were banded into three
categories, small, medium and large. Small structures (1-4 rooms) were allotted the
sum of N171, 725.00 each as resettlement assistance, while medium sized
structures (5-8 rooms) were allotted N248, 740.00 each and large structures (over 8
rooms) were apportioned N309, 780.00 each.

This resettlement assistance covered loss of structure, loss of household assets as
well as payment for rent prior to implementation.

The total budget for financial disbursements is N284,377 ,984.00 broken down into
N83, 782,240.00 for Owners of Structure (Category A) N174, 7 43,200.00 for Tenants
(Category B) and N25,852,544.00 to cover future claims of Displaced Persons,
which will be substantiated after the first and major cash disbursement (Category C).
This will also cater for Committee allowances, grievance redress mechanism and
vulnerable groups. This sum shall be deposited in an escrow account.

Financial compensation shall be implemented immediately, to commence within two
weeks of acceptance of the RAP and completed within four weeks.

Speedy, just and fair resolution of grievances shall be carried out through four
mechanisms. The first forum for grievance redress is at local level, in particular the:




                                       Page 2 of 35
a.    Community Grievance Redress Committee (CGC)

b.    Chairman, Apapa-lganmu LCDA

c.    Citizens' Mediation Centre (CMC)

d.    Technical Committee On Badia East



DISCLOSURE

In line with the Bank's policy on disclosure, this RAP shall be displayed at the
following places; Apapa lganmu Local Council Development Area, Ajeromi lfelodun
LCDA, His Royal Highnesses' Palace, the Web Site of Lagos State and that of
relevant Ministries, including the Ministries of Justice, Environment, Housing,
Economic Planning & Budget, Information & Strategy, Finance, and Physical
Planning & Urban Development, as well as the State Urban Renewal Authority and
Public Works Corporation.




                                   Page 3 of 35
DEFINITIONS

COMPENSATION:          A displaced person I claimant will        be entitled to the
compensation I financial assistance which is determined by reference to the market
value of the land and assets as on the date of preliminary notification. If there is
delay in payment of compensation beyond one year from the date on which
possession was taken       which· is    attributable to   Government,   the   displaced
person/claimant shall be entitled to interest on the outstanding amount of the
compensation until the date of payment.

DISPLACED PERSONS (DPs): These are persons confirmed to have been living
and or been on land entered (acquired by) into either for the purposes of executing a
project or for the purpose of enhancing the environmental standard of a city.

LAND ACQUISITION: Land acquisition literarily means acquiring of land for some
public purpose by Government/Government agency, as authorized by the law, from
the individual landowners after paying Government fixed compensation in lieu of
losses incurred by land owner(s) due to surrendering of his/their land to the
concerned Government agency. Land acquisition includes both outright purchases of
property and purchase of access rights such as right of way.

PROJECT AFFECTED AREA: The land mass entered (acquired by) into by the
State Government in the Badia East Area of Lagos State for the purpose of abating
nuisance on the 23rd February, 2013 which covers an area of 3.22 hectares.

PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS (PAPs): These are persons confirmed to have
been living and or been on land entered (acquired by) into either for the purposes of
executing a project or for the purpose of enhancing the environmental standard of a
city.




                                       Page 4 of 35
PUBLIC PURPOSE:         The State land Law, Laws of Lagos State 2004 Vol. 7.S.II
provides that: 'Public Purpose " means public purpose as hereinafter defined in so
far as such purpose relates to any matter with respect to which the Government of
Lagos State has power to make Laws, and includes:

(a)   For exclusive Government use or for General Public use;
(b)   For or in connection with sanitary improvements of any kind, including
      reclamations;
(c)   For or in connection with the laying out any new township or Government
      station or the extension or Improvement of any existing township or
      Government station
(d)    For obtaining control over land contiguous to any port;
(e)   For obtaining control over land the value of which will be enhanced by the
      construction of railway, road or other public work or Convenience about to be
      undertaken or provided by the government;
(f)   For obtaining control over land required for or in connection with mining
      purpose; and
(g)   For obtaining control over land required for or in connection with planned rural
      development or settlement;
(h)   For or in connection with housing estates, economics industrial, or agricultural
      development and for obtaining control over land required for in connection
      with such land.

REPLACEMENT COST: This is usually calculated as the market value of the assets
plus the transaction costs related to restoring such assets. The calculation of
replacement costs is complex due to the potential variety of land, land use claimants,
and the differing levels of land market development across countries.

STATE LAND: State Land means all public lands in the Lagos State which are for
the time being vested in the Governor on behalf of or on trust for the benefit of the
Government of the Lagos State, and all lands heretofore held or hereafter acquired
by any authority of the Lagos State for any Public Purpose or otherwise for such
benefit, as well as lands so acquired under any enactment.



                                     Page 5 of 35
VULNERABLE GROUP:           Vulnerable or 'at-risk' groups includes people who, by
virtue of gender, ethnicity, age, physical or mental disability, economic disadvantage
or social status may be more adversely affected by displacement than others and
who may be limited in their ability to claim or take advantage of resettlement
assistance and related development benefits. Vulnerable groups in the context of
displacement also include people living below the poverty line, the landless, the
elderly, women- and children-headed households, ethnic minorities, natural resource
dependent communities or other displaced persons who may not be protected
through national land compensation or land titling legislation.




                                      Page 6 of 35
LIST OF ACRONYMS

CDA                Community Development Association

CDC                Community Development Committee

CMC                Citizens' Mediation Centre

DPs                Displaced Persons

LCDA               Local Council Development Area

LMDGP              Lagos Metropolitan Development and
                   Governance Project
NGO                Non-Governmental Organisation

PAA                Project Affected Area

PAPs               Project AffeC?ted Persons

RAP                Resettlement Action Plan

RRAP               Reviewed Resettlement Action Plan

RPF                Resettlement Policy Framework

OP. 4.12           Operational Policy 4.12




                      Page 7 of 35
                                    CHAPTER 1

                                  BACKGROUND

1.1   INTRODUCTION

      This document seeks to put in place a Reviewed Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP), for the displaced persons affected by a 3.22 hectare land clearance that took
place in Badia East area of the State on 23rd February, 2013, subsequent to two
earlier ones forwarded to the World Bank - the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and
the Revised       Resettlement Action     Plan (RRAP).   The latest changes were
necessitated by the need to obtain the sign-off (approval) of the Executive Council
on the compensation matrix, review the earlier proposals in the context of state
policy and further consultative dialogue with Community Representatives.

      This document is also to link and ultimately update the Resettlement Action
Plan (RAP) of 2012, put in place for the Badia Canal and Canal Road for the Lagos
Metropolitan Development and Governance Project (LMDGP).

      The Lagos State Government has developed this Reviewed Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP), adopting a home grown methodology, with the primary aim of
providing on compassionate grounds, reasonable financial assistance to affected
persons, whilst also accommodating the terms of the World Bank Operation Policy
4.12 (OP 4.12).

1.2   LOCATION OF AREA

      The cleared site of 23rd February, 2013, in Badia East is located within the
Apapa-lganmu Local Council Development Area of Lagos State. The area is within
Central Lagos, measures approximately 3.22hecters i.e. 32,200square meters and is
bordered to the North by the Elevated Light Railway, to the West by the Lagos
Metropolitan Development and Governance Project (LMDGP) Canal and Canal Bank
Road Projects, to the South by existing Slum and to the East by the Surface Railway.
The area is swampy in nature, filled up with refuse and other waste material and
acknowledged as a slum.


                                        Page 8 of 35
       In continuance of the earlier upgrade development effected under the World
Bank funded Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project; the Lagos
State Government had planned further development of this area pursuant to her
vision of becoming Africa's Model Mega City and a Global Economic and Financial
Hub that is safe, secure, functional and productive.

1.3    DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT

       Lagos State with its mega city status is a large city state in terms of her
population currently estimated at 21 million. Historically, Lagos served as a former
federal capital, but despite the relocation of the capital, Lagos remains the nation's
economic and commercial hub with the largest concentration of multinationals, daily
influx of persons from around the nation, and susceptibility to illegal and slum
housing development. This has necessitated measures to accelerate development
and enhance sanitation and security.

       One of such development intervention has been that of the World Bank in the
area of urban infrastructure development with the overall objective of increasing and
sustaining     access to basic urban services through         investments in critical
infrastructure.

       A Canal has been constructed in the area under the World Bank Project as a
drainage channel to mitigate the effect of flooding, while a Canal Bank Road was
also constructed to ease access to the community.

       In line with the upgrade development of this area, the Lagos State
Government has also embarked on integrated metropolitan development which is
essential for economic growth and sustainable service delivery for poverty
alleviation.

1.4    THE NEED FOR RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)

       The clearance exercise that took place in Badia East area of Lagos State on
23rd February, 2013, had led to the displacement of persons living on this portion of
land. This is despite the fact that the parcel of land in question was a swampy terrain
filled up with refuse and other waste materials before being illegally occupied by the

                                       Page 9 of 35
residents. Also, the same area had earlier been cleared by the State Government in
2006 and was never approved for development. The clearance had become
compelling in the face of the need to upgrade and redevelop this area. A similar
exercise had taken place in another portion of Badia during construction of the Canal
Bank Road in February, 2012, under the LMDGP World Bank Project, for which a
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was put in place and subsequently implemented.

         Consequently, however, the Lagos State Government, in line with the World
Bank's     Operational        Policy, . OP   4.12   on   Involuntary   Resettlement   and   on
compassionate grounds, has developed this Updated Reviewed Resettlement Action
Plan (RRAP) to mitigate the adverse social, economic and/or physical effects of
displacement on the displaced persons:

1.5      THE MAIN OBJECTIVES OF THE REVIEWED RESETTLEMENT ACTION
         PLAN (RRAP)

         The main objectives of this RRAP are:

               i.   Update the 2012 RAP to include the entitlement to compensation
                    following a socio economic baseline and recommend quantum.
               ii. Evolve a Community Development Programme by consultations
                    between the State Government and the Community.
               iii. Examine the mode of compensation to be adopted, be it financial or
                    resettlement and clearly articulate reasons for the adopted mode
                    clearly articulated.
               iv. Propose a Grievance Redress Mechanism.

1.6      RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN CRAP) METHODOLOGY

       The methodology adopted in developing this Reviewed Resettlement Action
Plan (RRAP) includes the following:

          i.        Stakeholders' Consultative Forum

                    (a)    The Technical Committee on Badia East held one (1)
                           Consultative Meeting with the Chairman and Officers of the
                           Apapa-lganmu Local Council Development Area on
                           Wednesday, 26th June, 2013, to seek the assistance of the Local
                           Council Development Area and get the input of the Council on
                           matters concerning the clearance at the Oke Ilu Eri Area of
                                             Page 10 of 35
       Badia. This is in recognition of the Local Council Development
       Area as the government closest to the affected persons and a
       veritable avenue to sensitize the people on the activities of the
       Committee.

 (b)   The Technical Committee on Badia East held two (2)
       Consultative Meetings with His Royal Majesty, Oba F.A. Aremu
       Aromire, the Ojora of ljora Land and His Council on Wednesday,
       26th June, 2013 and Wednesday, 3rd July, 2013, in recognition of
       the need to consult with the Traditional Institutions in the area.


(c)    The Technical Committee on Badia East convened a
       Stakeholders' Meeting on Badia East on Thursday, 4th July,
       2013, at the National Arts Theatre, lganmu, Lagos. Over 1,000
       displaced persons, numerous groups and parties, Traditional
       Institutions, Community Development Associations, Non-
       Governmental Organizations, World Bank Representative,
       Apapa-lganmu LCDA Chairman and Council members, 8
       members of the State Executive Council and other top
       Government functionaries attended the Stakeholders' Meeting.
       The Stakeholders' Meeting provided a forum for peaceful and
       unguarded deliberation amongst Stakeholders, particularly, on
       the part of people directly affected by the clearance exercise.
       Also SERAC, a Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) working in
       the area presented a database on Socio Economic Impact of the
       Clearance on the Community at that forum. There were
       assurances of a promising future to the people from the State
       Government.

(d)    The Technical Committee held a total of five (5) Consultative
       Meetings with the representatives of Ajeromi and Oke ilu Eri
       Communities on 26th, 27th, 28th, 29th and early hours of 30th
       August, 2013, to validate the Census of Displaced Persons. The
       Consultative Meeting resolved and agreed to adopt the Database
       of Project Affected Persons compiled and submitted by the
       Community Representatives. The Technical Committee had
       observed that the Verification/Census Exercise was obviously
       infiltrated by persons who never lived in the affected area.

(e)    The Technical Committee on Badia East held three (3)
       Consultative Meetings with representatives of Ajeromi and Oke
       Ilu Eri Communities with two (2) representatives of the Social
       and Economic Rights Action Center (SERAC) in attendance at two
       (2) of the Meetin~s. The Consultative Meetings were held on
       18th, 19th and 23r September, 2013. The Resettlement Matrix
       and the Grievance Redress Mechanism were disclosed and made
                        Page 11 of 35
      available to the Community Representatives and SERAC. This
      was to enable them consult widely with all Displaced Persons to
      know what has been proposed before signing off on the
      Resettlement Action Plan Document. A resolution was
      subsequently signed by Members of the Technical Committee on
      Badia East and Seven (7) out of the Eight (8) representatives of
      the Communities.

(f)   The Technical Committee forwarded the Revised Resettlement
      Action Plan to the World Bank, to meet the pre- agreed dead
      line, while it reported to the EXCO Committee on outcome of
      Consultative meetings with community representatives and the
      financial matrix agreed there from.

(g)   In line with standard practice, presentations were made to the
      Lagos State Executive Council to update information on the
      affected persons of 23rd February, 2013 clearance at Badia
      East, and to seek approval for the financial matrix proposed.

(h)   In giving approval, EXCO had scaled down the financial matrix of
      N400, 199,587.00 proposed to N284, 377,984.00 having regard
      to two main factors. First is the fact that affected structure
      owners had no land title or building plan approval and should
      therefore not be entitled to any compensation for loss of rent or
      loss of profit. As a second factor, EXCO took into consideration
      the level of compensation ordinarily payable to genuine property
      owners in cases of land acquisition for government projects.
      Apart from removing the component amount earlier
      recommended for Owners of Structure on account of loss of rent,
      EXCO a/so adjusted downwards the allowance made for legal
      and agency fees for tenants to enable them take up new
      accommodation. From a total of 20% of rent, this was reduced to
       10%, which accords more to reality.

(i)   Consequently, the need to meet with community representatives
       became expedient, in order to inform and seek their
      concurrence on the revised package.             The meeting with
      community representatives took place on Wednesday, 2dh
      November, 2013. Although community representatives would
      have wanted approval of financial matrix as earlier proposed,
      they appreciated government gesture, while copies of the new
      financial matrix was made available to the community
      representatives for further discussion with affected persons.

                      Page 12 of 35
ii.   Verification/Census Exercise of Affected Persons
      (a)    Awareness

                In order to ensure transparency of her process, as well as,
                create adequate awareness, the Technical Committee in
                preparation for the Verification/Census Exercise placed
                Advertisement in the PM News of Tuesday, gth July, 2013, made
                Mobile Jingles around the Community, pasted Posters and
                circulated Handbills across Ijora-Badia, to sensitize the populace
                to the scheduled Verification/Census Exercise.
      (b)       Display of Lists
                All the lists of displaced persons as earlier compiled and
                received were conspicuously displayed in three (3) different
                locations. These were:
                (i)    The Site;
                (ii)   The Apapa-Iganmu Local Council Development Area
                       Secretariat; and
                (iii)  The Palace of Ojora of Ijora Land.

      (c)       Verification/Census Exercise
                The Verification/Census Exercise of persons affected by the
                February, 23rd, 2013, clearance at Badia East took place on 15th,
                16th and 17th July, 2013, in the Conference Room of the Apapa-
                Iganmu Local Council Development Area. Traditional
                Institutions, Community Development Associations, Non-
                Governmental Organizations, World Bank Representatives,
                Officers from the Lagos Metropolitan Development and
                Governance Project, Apapa-lganmu Local Council Development
                Area Chairman and Council Members witnessed the issuance
                and collection of Verification/Census Checklist Forms to 2,417
                claimants at the 3-Day Verification/Census Exercise.

      (d)       Outcome of Verification/ Census Exercise
                Following from the Verification/Census Exercise, the under listed
                represents a summary of details:
            »   Total Number of Verification Checklist Form Issued     - 2,417
            »   Total Number of Verification Checklist Form Returned - 2,330
            »   Total Number Voidable entries                         - 7
            »   Total Number of Respondents as Landlords              - 324
            »   Total Number of Respondents as Tenants                - 1960
            »   Total No. Respondents without indication of Status         22




                                 Page 13 of 35
      (e)   METHODOLOGY ADOPTED

            (i)    A Template (Form) was developed to capture relevant
                   information from displaced persons to ascertain status.
            (ii)   The Template Form was batched A - E and serially
                   numbered 001-500 for each batch.
            (iii)  The Form was handled out to each person that came
                   forward after oral interview (in language the person
                   understands) to ascertain status. Forms were initialled by
                   issuing Officer to authenticate. Name of each person that
                   collected Form was also written down against the number
                   on the form issued.
            (iv)   The Community Development Committee (CDC),
                   Community Development Associations (CDAs) and Non-
                   Governmental Organizations (NGOs) were in attendance
                   everyday of the exercise.
            (v)    Respondents were requested to return duly completed
                   Forms to the Committee within her sitting days at the
                   Local Council Development Area office with a passport
                   photograph attached, together with any proof of claim(s)
                   as may be available to the respondent.
            (vi)   Some forms were however, returned to the Local Council
                   Development Area after the Committee had left, while
                   some were returned to the Ministry of Housing.
            (vii) These forms were accepted since they could be easily
                   identified whether a photocopy or otherwise.
            (viii) The Technical Committee, thereafter, used a computer
                   Software to harmonize all names in previously generated
                   data of names forwarded and did a Run Query with
                   names on the Forms to determine if existing and cross
                   check in form earlier given. This was to give another
                   level of verification and authentication.
            (ix)   With the conclusion of the Verification/Census Exercise,
                   the Technical Committee submitted her Report and
                   moved to commence the next stage of her Terms of
                   Reference, which is the development of the Resettlement
                   Action Plan (RAP).

iii   Identification of Structures and Persons Affected by the Clearance
      Identification of number of persons and structures affected by the 23rd
      February, 2013, clearance exercise, using database as compiled and
      submitted by Community Representatives.

iv    Data Analysis
                             Page 14 of 35
             The data obtained through Verification/C~nsus checklist was analysed
             to determine socioeconomic status of Affected Persons.
      v      Valuation of Losses
             The Technical Committee relied on valuation of structures and/ or
             materials by experts i.e. Architects, Civil Engineers and Quantity
             Surveyors in relevant Government agencies.

      vii    Settlement Option
             The Technical Committee Determined the Resettlement Option through
             consultation with representatives of the Communities and approval by
             the Executive Council.

      viii   Budget & Funding
             The Committee developed an Estimated Budget and identified source
             of funding by relying on data from the Badia East Community, Lagos
             State Government, World Bank and Lagos Metropolitan Development
             and Governance Project (LMDGP).

1.7   IMPACT OF DISPLACEMENT/CLEARANCE

       The clearance exercise embarked upon on 23rd February, .2013, ultimately led
to displacement of persons who hitherto lived on this portion of Land, although the
conditions were extremely unhealthy and they had no building or development
permits. The displaced persons as identified include traders, artisans, teachers,
labourers etc.




                                   Page 15 of 35
                                    CHAPTER 2
      SOCIO-ECONOMIC PATTERN OF PROJECT AFFECTED COMMUNITIES
2.1    DEMOGRAPHY
       Analysis from the CensusNerification exercise as administered revealed that
the project affected two (2) communities, namely, Oke llu Eri and Ajeromi
Communities.    It further revealed that the Affected Communities had large
concentration of their population on the small expanse of land totalling 3.22 hectares.

2.2    HOUSEHOLD SIZE

       The Project Affected Area had an average household size .of seven (7)
persons per household, comprising Father, Mother and Five (5) Children. It also
revealed that a total of 2,252 households were affected by the Clearance, although a
number of fraudulent persons may have infiltrated the exercise.

2.3    HOUSEHOLD HEAD
       Analysis revealed that the headship/leadership in household for the Affected
Persons were predominantly male.          1,419 heads of household were male
representing 63%) of the Project Affected Households, while 833 females headed the
remaining households.

2.4    OCCUPATION
       The analysis also revealed that 968 household heads representing 43% were
traders, 495 heads of household representing 22°/o of were Artisans, 563 household
heads representing 25% of were factory workers/labourers, while the remaining 113
heads of households representing 5% of are retirees/aged who could no longer
work. None of the persons affected admitted to being unemployed.


2.5    EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND
       The analysis further revealed a relatively low literacy level amongst the
Displaced Persons. Only 676 Heads of Household representing 30% had formal
education to the level of secondary education, 293 Heads of Household representing
13% had tertiary education, while 1,283 representing 57% had no formal education.


                                     Page 16 of 35
2.6    AGE DISTRIBUTION
       The age distribution pattern amongst the Heads of household revealed that
2, 139 representing 95% of the household heads were in the active/working age
group, that is, 21 years - 60 years, while only 113 representing 5°/o of the Heads of
Household are aged I non- active age group.


2.7    GENDER PATTERN
       The gender distribution amongst the Heads of Household revealed that
female gender had 833 number representing 37°/o who either are widows, divorcee,
single parents or spinsters. The remaining 1,419 that is 63% were male.


2.8    STANDARD OF LIVING
       The Affected Persons (APs) has a low standard of living as depicted by the
household size which is the universally accepted demographic indicator for
measuring standard of living.       This enunciates that the larger the size of the
household, the lower their living quality or standard of living.


2.9    VULNERABLE GROUP
       The vulnerable group amongst the Affected Persons consist of 113, that is,
5% of the Heads of Household that fall within the aged I non active age group.




                                       Page 17 of 35
                                       CHAPTER 3

                                  LEGAL FRAMEWORK

3.1         OVERVIEW OF LAND LAWS

       Lagos State has sufficient laws guiding land matters to ensure equitable and
ordered society. The laws encompass various aspects in which land related issues
might arise, ranging from acquisition, transfer, forfeiture, endorsement, ownership
and situations whereby there would be a form of compensation for acquisition.

      Some of these Laws include;

        •    Land Development (Provision for Roads) Law;
        •    Determination of Certain Interest in Lands Law;
        •    State Lands Law;
        •    Land Use Act;
        •    Central Lagos Land (Acquisition) Law.

State Land Law 1918:
       This can be seen in Chapters 1 & 2 of the Lagos State of Nigeria Law 1994. It
consists of 38 Sections with various sub-sections all aimed at resolving issues as
regards land matters and to make further and better provision for the management
and disposal of State lands.
       It is important to note that this is operational only to the extent that its subject
areas are not provided for in the Land Use Act 1978.

Determination of Certain Interest In Lands Law 1975:
        This can be seen in Chapter 38 of the Lagos State of Nigeria Laws of 1994. It
consists of 15 Sections aimed majorly at resolving issues of land and providing for
the determination of certain interests in land and for matters connected therewith. It
also. goes on to deal with the issue of compensation as seen in Sections 4, 5 & 6.
   Where in Section 4 it is stated that. ...

         ~
         "The Governor shall where applicable pay compensation to any person
         whose interest in any State land is determined by virtue of this law"
Section 5 also states that. ....

         ~
         ''A compensation payable for any interest determined under this law shall
         be assessed and computed in accordance with the provisions of this law"
Section 6 states that. ..

         ~   "In computing compensation payable under this law, account shall be taken
             of any building on the affected State land, so however that any
             compensation payable shall be as respect .....



                                        Page 18 of 35
       a. Developed land: HAGICJ's comment [find citations in Laws of Lagos
           State 2003]
      (i) For an amount equal to the sum total of all deed fees and ground rents paid in
              respect of the lease up to the date of the determination of the lease, and
      (ii) For the amount of the actual cost of construction of the building in accordance
              with an approved plan.

       b. Undeveloped Land:

      For the sum total of all deed fees and or ground rents paid in respect of the lease
     up to the date of the determination of the lease plus reasonable expenditure
     incurred in respect of Architects fees, surveyors fees and fees in respect of
     development approvals or permits granted by the appropriate planning authorities.

  Land Development (Provisions for Road) Law:
         This can be seen in Chapter 110 of the Lagos State of Nigeria Law 1994. It
  consists of 13 Sections with various sub-sections. This law is to make provision for
  any necessary reservation or land for roads where land is sold off in lots. It
  encompasses a lot of sections which is aimed at resolving basic land dispute or
  confusion. It also provides for situations where compensation is available which can
  be seen in its Section 9.

  Central Lagos Land (Acquisition) Law:
          This law can be seen in Chapters 1 & 2 of the Lagos State of Nigeria Law
  1994. It consists of 7 Sections which have been set aside to acquire certain parcel of
  land in central Lagos for public purpose. Also it provide for compensation in
  situations whereby the government have taken possession of a persons' land but
  this compensation is subject to an investigation and upon discovery that the claimant
  has any right or interest in the said land the prescribed officer shall so advice the
  Governor who also on being satisfied of claim direct that compensation be paid to
  the claimant as seen in Section 3 of this law.

  Land Use Act 1978:
         This Act is located in Chapter 15 of the Laws of the Federation of Nigeria. It
  consists of 52 Sections. It is "an Act to vest all land comprised in the territory of each
  State (except land vested in the Federal Government or its agencies). Solely in the
  governor of the state, who would hold such land in trust for the people and would
  henceforth be responsible for allocation of land in all urban areas to individuals
  resident in the State and to organizations for residential, agricultural, commercial and.
  other purposes while similar power with respect to non-urban areas are conferred on
  local government. It also gives an insight as regards the power of a Governor to
· revoke rights of occupancy and clearly states situations where compensation is
  payable on revocation of right of occupancy by the Governor in certain cases, which
  can be seen in sec 29 of this Act.

                                        Page 19 of 35
        In summary, the set of laws stated above have ensured that the land issues
and compensation in relation to land are properly administered to ensure that all get
fair and just treatment when it comes to land related issues in Lagos State.



       Notably, there are four (4) types of impact a Resettlement Action Plan may
focus on~ namely:

   i.   Loss of land
   ii. Loss of structure
   iii. Loss of assets
   iv. Loss of business.

   This RRAP focuses on the loss of structure, loss of assets and loss of business,
leaving out loss of land because the Displaced Persons (DPs) fall under Category C
of the World Bank OP 4.12, that is, those who have no recognizable legal right or
claim to the land they are occupying or squatters living on site. The other categories
are:

CATEGORY A: Those who have Formal Legal Rights to land including Customary
and Traditional Rights recognized under the Laws of the County;

CATEGORY B: Those who do not have Formal Legal rights to land at the time the
Census began but have a claim to such land or assets - provided that such claims
are recognized under the Laws of the Country or become recognized through a
process identified in the Resettlement Action Plan.

        In line with OP 4.12, all Project Affected Persons are eligible for some kind of
assistance if they occupied the land before the entitlement cut -off date or at the
time of the clearance, irrespective of their status or whether they have Formal Title,
Legal Rights or not, squatters or otherwise encroaching illegally on land.

        There have been two major acquisitions affecting this area, the first by the
then British Colonial Government in 1929 and by the Western Nigeria Regional
Government in 1958 under the 5,000 acres acquisition. However, the Ojora Family
ultimately won a protracted Court case that lasted for over three decades against the
Federal Government of Nigeria over the Ownership of the land, although before the

                                      Page 20 of 35
conclusion of the case, the Federal Government had utilized most of the Badia East
Land for the construction of a railway line and railway staff quarters.

        Squatters had moved into the un-utilized portion of the land and have
occupied it for several decades. Most of the Project Affected Persons (PAPs)
/Displaced Persons (DPs) under this Reviewed Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
came on the land through these processes.

In Piaro v Tenalo (1976) 12 SC. 31 at 40 -41, the court per Obaseki, Ag. JSC
observed:

"It is now settled law that there are five (5) ways in which ownership of land may be
proved .... ". These are as follows:

   i.   Proof by traditional evidence
   ii. Proof of act of ownership
   iii. Proof of long possession
   iv. Documents of title which must be duly authenticated
   v. Proof of possession of connected or adjacent land

   These five (5) ways of proving ownership of land has been corroborated in
plethora of cases, see lshola Abeke (1972) 5 SC 321 at 329-330 and Abinabina v
Chief Enyimadu (1953) A.C 207 at 215-216.

   Considering the five (5) ways provided· by Courts of Law for the proof of
ownership to land, the Project Affected Persons cannot be accommodated under any
of the five prescribed mode of proving ownership to land considering the fact that the
Ojora Family's title to land in the area has been confirmed by the Supreme Court of
Nigeria which is the Highest Court of the land and coupled with the fact that the
Project Affected Persons (PAPs) came on the land while some portion of Badia East
was under government acquisition including the portion occupied by the Project
Affected Persons (PAPs) and the title to the land was under contest.

   In spite of the above, the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) in line with OP
4.12 has made provisions for adequate compensations for those who have no
recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are occupying such as the Project

                                        Page 21 of 35
Affected Persons (PAPs) I Displaced Persons (DPs) under the present Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP)

  Therefore the objective of this Reviewed Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) are to
set out an action plan for prompt payment of compensation to the Project Affected
Persons (PAPs) I Displaced Persons (DPs) within the frame work of the
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and OP 4.12



  References:-

        i.   Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 Volume 7.
       ii.   The Laws of Lagos State of Nigeria 2003.




                                   Page 22 of 35
                                    CHAPTER4

                             RESETTLEMENT OPTION

4.1   ELIGIBILTY CRITERIA

       To qualify for compensation, the primary consideration remain that the person
must have been verified to have lived in the Project Affected Area, as earlier
described, by both the Community representatives and from the returns as imputed
in the Verification/Census Exercise Checklist administered by the Technical
Committee.

       Cut off date for eligibility for compensation has been identified as last date of
1st stage of Consultation with Community Representatives, that is, Thursday, 29th
August, 2013.

4.2   BASIS FOR OPTION

       The Lagos State Government in the conception and implementation of its
policies always has the welfare and interest of her citizens as the overriding
consideration. The Government had always taken issues of compensation very
seriously. However, it has a policy of discouraging illegal settlements and the
construction of houses without building permits.

       In this instance, various options for compensation or financial assistance were
examined. The State eventually opted for monetary compensation after due
consultations with representatives of the affected Communities, in view of the
number of affected persons as provision of physical resettlement does not appear
feasible.

       Furthermore, majority of the Affected Persons in this exercise belong to
category of persons whose title to the land could not be ascertained as enunciated in
Chapter 3. The basis for consideration, therefore tend to be more on compassionate
grounds and giving a human face to governance. Others who may have title to land
and building permits were requested to submit their claims which must be
considered for full compensation as required by law.

4.3   VALUATION OF LOSSES

      Relevant Professionals - Architects, Quantity Surveyors, Town Planners and
Engineers within the Technical Committee came up with valuation of loss.



                                     Page 23 of 35
4.4    CATEGORY OF CLEARED STRUCTURES
       There was design and costing of cleared structure to get an estimate, using
the land mass of the cleared area. Owners of Structure were grouped into 3
categories namely:

            S/N    NO. OF ROOMS              CATEGORY
            1      1-4                       SMALL
            2      5-8                       MEDIUM
            3      ABOVE8                    LARGE




                                   Page 24 of 35
                             CATEGORY 1- SMALL STRUCTURE (1-4ROOMS)

     SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                               2
     1)   Wooden structure built on wooden stilts measuring approximately 25m
     2)   Floor and cladding is made wood
     3)   Roof covering is currugated zinc sheet
     4)   Timber battern doors and windows

     S/N DESCRIPTION                                              QTTY             UNIT       RATE                 AMOUNT
                      ·                                       I                I          I                   I
          PROPOSED ESTIMATE FOR THE STRUCTURES CLEARED AT IJORA BADlYA

      A   Provision and erection of
          wooden pile buried under water,
          6mdeep                                                    60             no.              420.00           25,200.00

      B Provide and construct wooden base
          consisting of 1x12' and 2x2 planks
          including all accessories                                 25             Sq.m             650.00           16,250.00

      c   Provide and construct wooden wall
          consisting of 1x12' and 2x2 planks with
          with upright and bracing planks                           49             Sq.m             700.00           34,300.00

      D Provide and construct wooden roof
        carcass consisting of 2x4' and 2x3, 2x2'
        planks with all accessories                                   15           Sq.m            1,200.00          18,000.00

      E Supply and fix corrugated roofing zinc
          sheets nailed on wooden carcass (m/s)                       15           Sq.m             665.00            9,975.00

      F Allow a sum for electrical works                                           Sum                                3,000.00

      G Supply and fix wooden doors including
          frames, hinges and locks                                    6            no.             1,700.00          10,200.00

      H Supply and fix wooden batterns to
        window opening including frames,
        hinges and bolt size 1200 x 1200mm                            3            no.             1,200.00           3,600.00

      J Ditto, size 600 x 600mm                                       2            no.              600.00            1,~00.00


          TOTAL                                                                                                   121,725.60
            ..
            ~
                                                   Pel• .. .,.._ SECIITAJ f,
          Prepared by:                 ·······r
                                               ,

                                            Od~l.
                                                      .C
                                                                  ,...,...-.uvs•••·
                                                           -~..k-...li     ~



                                                                            ...f(llr::.)
                                           Principal Quantity Surveyor
                                               Ministry of Housing


.~




                                       Page 25 of 35
                      CATEGORY 2- MEDIUM STRUCTURE (5-8ROOMS)

SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                           2
1)   Wooden structure built on wooden stilts measuring approximately 47m
2)   Floor and cladding is made wood
3)   Roof covering is currugated zinc sheet
4)   Timber battern doors and windows

S/N DESCRIPTION                                      QTTY     UNIT    RATE                 AMOUNT

     PROPOSED ESTIMAT!i; FQR THE            STR!JC~UR!;;§ C!,.kAREDI AT IJORA B~DIYA
 A Provision and erection of
   wooden pile buried under water,
   6m deep                                            110      no.              420.00       46,200.00
 B Provide and construct wooden base
   consisting of 1x12' and 2x2 planks
                                                                                                          I
   including all accessories                          47      Sq.m              650.00       30.550.00    1
                                                                                                          i
 c   Provide and construct wooden wall
                                                                                                          I
     consisting of 1x12' and 2x2 planks with
     with upright and bracing planks                  50      Sq.m              700.00       35.000.00    I
                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                          !
 D Provide and construct wooden roof                                                                      i
                                                                                                          I
   carcass consisting of 2x4' and 2x3, 2x2'                                                               I
   planks with all accessories                        30      Sq.m             1,200.00      36,000.00

 E Supply and fix corrugated roofing zinc
   sheets nailed on wooden carcass (m/s)              30      Sq.m              665.00       19,950.00

 F Allow a sum for electrical works                           Sum                            10,240.00

 G Supply and fix wooden doors including
   frames, hinges and locks                            8       no.             1,700.00      13,600.0(

 H Supply and fix wooden batterns to
     window opening including frames,
     hinges and bolt size 1200 x 1200mm                5       no.             1,200.00      6.000.0C

 J Ditto, size 600 x 600mm                             2       no.              600.00        1,200.,90

     TOTAL                                                                                198,740.00
                                                   v ..f!.l SEC&ITAlY.
                                                                     •
                                             (~
     Prepared by:                 .......               ·~·J.IOUSI • ..
                                      OdM\!i~~JfMf·)
                                      Principal Quantity Surveyor
                                          Ministry of Housing




                                                  Page 26 of 35
                    CATEGORY 3- LARGE STRUCTURE (ABOVE 8 ROOMS)
SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                               2
1)   Wooden structure built on wooden stilts measuring approximately 63m
2)   Floor and cladding is made wood
3)   Roof covering is currugated zinc sheet
4)   Timber battern doors and windows

S/N DESCRIPTION                                        QTTY        UNIT       RATE                 AMOUNT
                                                  I            I          I                   I
     PROPOSED ESTIMATE FOR THE STRUCTURES CLEARED AT IJORA BADlYA

 A Provision and erection of
   wooden pile buried under water,
   6m deep                                             115         no.              420.00           48,300.00

 B Provide and construct wooden base
     consisting of 1x12' and 2x2 planks
     including all accessories                          63         Sq.m             650.00           40,950.00

 c   Provide and construct wooden wall
     consisting of 1x12' and 2x2 planks with
     with upright and bracing planks                    60         Sq.m             700.00           42,000.00

 D Provide and construct wooden roof
   carcass consisting of 2x4' and 2x3, 2x2'
   planks with all accessories                          42         Sq.m            1,200.00          50,400.0C

 E Supply and fix corrugated roofing zinc
     sheets nailed on wooden carcass (m/s)              42         Sq.m             665.00           27,930.00

 F Allow a sum for electrical works                                Sum                               23,600.00

 G Supply and fix wooden doors including
     frames, hinges and locks                           10         no.             1,700.00          17,000.00

 H Supply and fix wooden batterns to
   window opening including frames,
   hinges and bolt size 1200 x 1200mm                   7          no.             1,200.00           8,400.00

 J   Ditto, size 600 x 600mm                            2          no.              600.00            1,200.00

     TOTAL                                                                                        259,780.00
                                            ~-... ·"          SEar;---:.-.....
     Prepared by:                 ·········~r!Mf~~ . .... ~~·
                                      odufutJesA_cltyl:~l~'I!P.)
                                      Principal Quautity Stttv~or
                                          Ministry of Housing




                                       Page 27 of 35
      4.5   REVIEWED MODALITIES FOR RESETTLEMENT TO OWNERS OF
            STRUCTURE
            a.   Valuation of structure retained as computed by State Principal Quantity
                 Surveyor.

            b.        The sum of N50,000.00 (Fifty Thousand Naira) earlier calculated as
                      being ·equitable amount for loss of household assets to both Owners of
                      Structure and Tenants retained.
            c.        Breakdown of Loss of Household Assets:
                                                                                   N
                      i. Foam (4ft x 6ft)                               8,000.00
                      ii. 18 inches Colour Television                 14,000.00
                      iii. 2 Nos. Cushion Chairs                        6,000.00
                      iv. 1 No. Center Table                            2,500.00
                        v. Kitchen Utensils                             3,300.00
                        vi. Plastic Buckets                              1,400.00
                        vii. Personal Clothing                         13,000.00
                        viii. Stove                                      1,800.00
                                                TOTAL                  50,000.00

            In this regard, the reviewed Resettlement Matrix is as follows:

            REVIEWED RESETTLEMENT TO OWNERS OF STRUCTURE

         CATEGORY          NO. IN      VALUATION     VALUATION     TOTAL       TOTAL
SIN         OF           CATEGORY         FOR           FOR         TO         COST
        STRUCTURE                      STRUCTURE      HOUSE-      OWNER
                                                       HOLD         OF
                                                      ASSETS      STRUC-
                                                                   TURE
                                            N               N        N            N
1       SMALL                 24         121,725        50,000    171,725     4,121,400

        (1-4 Rooms)

2       MEDIUM               187         248,740        50,000    248,740     46,514,380

        (5-7 Rooms)

3       LARGE                107         309,780        50,000    309,780     33,146,460

        (Above 8
        Rooms)




                                            Page 28 of 35
4.6   REVIEWED MODALITIES FOR RESETTLEMENT TO TENANTS
                                                   N

      1. Loss of Household Assets                              50,000

      2. Rent for Relocation (1 yr. rent(@ N2, 000/month)
         plus 5% Agreement and 5°/o Agency fee                 26,400

      3. Rent for period before resettlement(@ N2, 000/
         Month (!\t1arch-September, 2013)                      14.000

        TOTAL                                                 N90, 400

      N90, 400 x 1,933 Tenants      =   N174, 743,200

4.7   TOTAL PAYABLE (TO BOTH OWNERS OF STRUCTURE AND TENANTS)

                             N83, 782,240 + N174, 743,200   =N258, 525,440
              Add 10% escrow provision
(Grievance Redress Mechanism, Vulnerable Persons,
Transport Allowance for Community Representatives etc.)       N25, 852,544
                   GRAND TOTAL                               N284, 377.984




                                    Page 29 of 35
                                                CHAPTER 5

                                         COST AND FUNDING

           5.1      REVIEWED FINANCIAL RESETTLEMENT TO OWNERS OF STRUCTURE


             CATEGORY         NO.,IN    VALUATION       VALUATION        TOTAL TO       TOTAL
     SIN         OF         CATEGORY       FOR             FOR            OWNER        COST BY
             STRUCTURE                  STRUCTURE       HOUSEHOLD           OF        CATEGORY
                                                          ASSETS          STRUC-
                                                                           TURE
                                            N                   N            N             N
     1.      SMALL              24       121,725           50,000         171,725     4,121,400

             (1-4 Rooms)

     2.      MEDIUM             187      198,740           50,000         248,740     46,514,380

     3.      LARGE              107      259,780           50,000        309,780      33,146,460




           5.2      REVIEWED RESETTLEMENT BUDGET FOR TENANTS

           A YEAR RENT     VALUATION     MONTHS PRIOR                     TOTAL NO.    TOTAL
           PLUS            FOR           TO IMPLEMEN-           TOTAL     OF           COST
SIN        AGREEMENT       HOUSEHOLD      TATION OF                       TENANTS
           &   AGENCY      ASSETS             RAP
           FEE
                                                                                            N
                 N                  N             N                 N
1.         26,400          50,000        14,000                 90,400    1,933        174, 743,200




           5.3    Add 10% escrow provision
           (Grievance Redress Mechanism, Vulnerable Persons,
           Transport Allowance for Community Representatives etc.)                  N25, 852,544

           5.4      TOTAL BUDGET                                                         N
                    Reviewed Resettlement to Owners of Structure                     83,782,240

                    Reviewed Resettlement to Tenants                                174,743,200

                    Add 10% Escrow Provision                                         25.852.544
                            GRAND TOTAL                                             284.377.984



           5.5 The source of funding for payment of compensation is identified as the
           LMDGP, Project Implementation Unit (PIU).

                                                Page 30 of 35
                                   CHAPTER 6

                      GRIEVANCE REDRESS MECHANISM

6.1    GRIEVANCE REDRESS APPROACH
       The Technical Committee had proposed a Grievance Redress Mechanism
which would further look into the concerns of affected persons, who might have been
omitted from the Displaced Persons List. This is to be an appeal channel. To this
end, the following four-step procedure proposed and agreed with Community
Representatives at the Consultative Meeting would be put in place:

      (1) COMMUNITY GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE (CGC)
          The Community Grievance Committee will comprise representatives of
          both Oke llu Eri and Ajeromi Communities. The Committee will entertain
          persons who are aggrieved or unsatisfied with the final list as agreed by
          both the State Government and Community Representatives. The
          Community Grievance Committee will then sift through the list and
          recommend a cleared list of persons to the Chairman, Apapa-lganmu
          Local Council Development Area.

      (2) CHAIRMAN, APAPA-IGANMU LCDA
          Upon receipt of the cleared list from the Community Grievance Committee,
          the Chairman would be required to further corroborate or otherwise,
          whether the displaced person was indeed inhabitant in the area cleared on
          23rd February, 2013.

      (3) CITIZENS' MEDIATION CENTRE (CMC)
          The Citizens' Mediation Centre (CMC) of the Lagos State Ministry of
          Justice, which provides free mediation services to citizens of Lagos State
          will be required to further determine, attar giving adequate opportunity to
          the aggrieved person, whether he/she qualifies as a Project Affected
          Person for compensation. The CMC would then forward names of cleared
          persons to the Technical Committee on Badia East.

      (4) TECHNICAL COMMITIEE ON BADIA EAST
          The Technical Committee upon receipt of names of cleared persons would
          admit the person as a Project Affected Person qualified for compensation.




                                    Page 31 of 35
Figure 1: Grievance Redress Mechanism Chart



              TECHNICAL COMMITTEE ON BADIA EAST

                              i
              CITIZENS' MEDIATION CENTRE

                              i
              CHAIRMAN, APAPA- IGANMU LCDA


                              i




                      Page 32 of 35
                                    CHAPTER 7

                       IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENT

7.1   RESETTLEMENT PAYMENT

       The State Government has opted for financial assistance towards
resettlement as explained in earlier chapters. Mode of payment is to by crossed
cheque made in the name of the identified Displaced Person in the relevant
category.

       The option for this mode of payment is not only in line with the Central Bank of
Nigeria Cashless Policy, but also to encourage Affected Persons to become
financially inclusive.

7.2   NOTICE OF PAYMENT

      The State Government would make use of the CDC, CDAs, the LCDA,
Community Representatives and traditional institutions in the area, as well uploading
on the Lagos State website to give out notice of commencement and modalities of
payment to Affected Persons.

7.3   DISBURSEMENT

       Crossed cheque or bank transfers shall be employed in making payments to
Displaced Persons, after ascertaining identity by the Technical Committee and the
Community Representatives.

7.5   DOCUMENTATION

       The Technical Committee shall prepare a Resettlement Dossier which shall
include necessary personal information, cheque or transfer details, date and amount
received.                                                                         ·

7.6   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE

       The State Government to commence disbursement of financial resettlement,
within 2weeks of the acceptance of the RRAP and release of fund from the World
Bank Lagos Metropolitan Development Governance Project, Programme
Implementation Unit (PIA) and completed within 4weeks.




                                     Page 33 of 35
                                   CHAPTER 8

                       MONITORING AND EVALLUATION

8.1   MONITORING FOR RESULT

  In line with the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) 2012, as a monitoring and
evaluation mechanism, the Technical Committee recognizes the need for
consultations to continue with Community representatives during implementation, to
ensure the achievement of outcomes that are consistent with the objectives of this
Reviewed Resettlement Action Plan.

8.2   The Lagos State Government, through her various Skill Acquisition
Development Centres located in all Local Government and Local Government
Development Areas in the State, will continue to encourage affected persons to take
advantage of the opportunities offered at these centres.




                                   Page 34 of 35
LIST OF ATTACHMENTS


1.    Payment Database for Displaced Persons at Badia East of 23rd February,
      2013

2.    Minutes of Consultative Joint Meeting with Community Representatives of
      Wednesday, 20th November, 2013.

3.    Letter from Citizens' Mediation Centre to Technical Committee on Badia East,
      dated 23rd October, 2013, detailing the essence of the Centre, with Data
      information of cases resolved by the Centre in the Y2013.




LAGOS STATE GOVERNMENT
TECHNICAL COMMITTEE ON BADIA EAST

November. 2013




                                  Page 35 of 35
