INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                   82626
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                                                    1818 H Street, N.W.         Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                                        Washington, D.C. 20433      Fax: (202) 522-0916
                                                                        U.S.A.                      Email: ipanel@worldbank.org


  Eimi Watanabe
  Chairperson
                                                                                                 lPN REQUEST RQ 13/09

                                                                                                      November 11,2013

                                         NOTICE OF RECEIPT OF REQUEST

                                                    Request for Inspection

                Nigeria: Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project (P071340)

     Overview

           On September 30, 2013, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection ("the
     Request") related to the Nigeria: Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project
     (P071340) ("the Project").

             The Panel has verified that the Request meets the basic requirements for registration. The
     Panel confirms that the Request was submitted by at least two people, in relation to a project
     supported by the World Ban1c The Bank's financing for the Project had not yet reached 95%
     disbursement and the Project had not yet closed by the time the Request for Inspection was
     submitted. The Requesters assert that they are affected by activities supported by the Bank, and
     the Request raises issues of harm which are plausibly linked to Bank supported activities and
     from alleged actions or omissions by the Bank. The Request is not related to procurement issues,
     and it deals with a subject matter on which the Panel has not made a previous recommendation. ·

             The Panel has decided, however, to postpone its decision on registration of this Request
     in order to provide an additional opportunity for Requesters and Management to address the
     concerns about the harm alleged in the Request. The Panel is taking this decision in line with its
     new "Pilot approach to support early solutions in the Inspection Panel process", which has been
     developed in the context of the update of its draft Operating Procedures. 1 Based on its
     interactions with both Management and the Requesters, the Panel considers that this Request for
     Inspection provides an appropriate opportunity to provide additional time and space to see if the
     concerns of the Requesters can be addressed without the need to register the Request and initiate
     the full-fledged Panel process.

             The basis for the Panel's decision to take this approach to pilot an opportunity for an
     early solution in the present context, are set forth below.




     1
         This is the first Request being considered under this new Pilot.
The Request for Inspection

        The Request was sent by a civil society organization based in Lagos on behalf of
"individuals, families and groups living in the Badia area of Lagos State." The Requesters asked
that their identities remain undisclosed. The Requesters allege that the Project has caused further
"impoverishment anq insecurity" of Badia residents, a vulnerable slum community in Lagos, as a
result of evictions that have occurred under the Project "without prior consultation, notice,
compensation or resettlement."

The Project

        The Project is a Specific Investment Credit approved by the Board on July 6, 2006, and
restructured in July 2011. At the time of the receipt of the Request for Inspection, the Project had
not yet closed and the disbursement rate was at 58.22%.

        According to the Project Appraisal Document ("the PAD"), the Project objective is "to
increase sustainable access to basic urban services in Lagos through carrying out of investments
in critical infrastructure." The Project has three Components: i) infrastructure (including
upgrading of infrastructure, drainage, and solid waste); ii) public governance and capacity
building; and iii) urban policy and project coordination.

        The first component is of relevance to the Requester's claims. It covers activities such as
an infrastructure upgrading program in nine of the largest slums identified in 1995, including
Badia, and development of a long-term technical solution to flooding under the Drainage sub-
component. The PAD states that two Safeguard Policies are triggered in the context of this
Project, the policies on Environmental Assessment and Involuntary Resettlement.

        The Financing Agreement for the Project requires that the Project Implementing Entity
(the Lagos State Government) carry out the city wide upgrading programs in accordance with
acceptable principles including those of the Resettlement Action Plan ("the RAP"). It adds that
such principles include that: i) involuntary resettlement would be avoided where feasible; ii)
where this is not feasible, displaced persons should be meaningfully consulted and should have
opportunities to participate in planning and implementing resettlement programs; and, iii)
displaced persons should be assisted in their efforts to improve their livelihoods and standards of
living or at least to restore them, in real terms, to pre-displacement levels.

Concerns raised in the Request

         The Requesters believe that they have suffered serious harm as a result of actions and
omissions of the World Bank. They· state that the Bank is "clearly obliged to ensure that the
project is implemented in accordance with its own Operational Policies and to hold Lagos State
to its commitments under the LMDGP Project Agreement."

        More specifically, the Requesters state that on March 6, 2012, over 100 structures in
Badia were demolished to make way for the construction of a drainage canal built under the
Project. The Requesters add that again on February 23, 2013, hundreds of structures were
demolished in the area of Badia immediately adjoining the newly constructed canal, forcefully


                                                 2
evicting about 9,000 of the Project's intended beneficiaries. According to the Requesters, both
incidences occurred without prior consultation, notice, compensation or resettlement. The
Requesters claim ,that the evictions and demolitions have resulted in their further
impoverishment.

        The Requesters state that on December 2012 a retroactive resettlement action plan was
completed and provided "minimal financial assistance to 124 Project Affected Persons displaced
during the March 2012 forced eviction, the sums were insufficient to offset the harms suffered,
especially in light or the delay of nearly nine months." They add that since February 23, 2013,
no relief or emergency aid measures have been undertaken to mitigate the extreme suffering of
thousands of affected persons. The Request refers to a number of interactions in which these
concerns have been raised with World Bank representatives from March 2012 to July 2013.

Piloting an opportunity for an early solution

        At the time the Panel received the Request for Inspection, the Requesters informed the
Panel that their key concern was to ensure that Resettlement Action Plan(s) relating to the
evictions noted in their Request would be finalized, funded and properly implemented to address
the concerns of the affected people in Lagos, in accordance with Bank Policy on Involuntary
Resettlement and Bank Supervision policy.

        Following receipt of the Request, and per its practice, the Panel met with Bank
Management to be briefed on the background of the Project and any proposed actions by
Management in response to the concerns raised. During the meeting, Management described
several actions and commitments by the Bank and the authorities. The Panel subsequently
informed the Requesters of the indications from Management regarding actions to address their
concerns, and about the potential applicability of the new pilot approach to foster early solutions.
The Requesters indicated their interest in exploring this possible avenue, and in receiving a
written statement of these actions and commitments.

       On October 31, 2013, and in line with the new Pilot approach, Bank Management
provided to the Panel a written note of Actions Proposed by Bank Management to address the
concerns of the Requesters, including an anticipated timeline. This written note is attached to
this Notice as Annex 1. Subsequently, and taking into consideration the actions proposed by
Management, the Requesters have informed the Panel that they are prepared to follow the Pilot
approach to provide an opportunity to resolve their concerns in light of the actions and
commitments indicated by Management.

        In this regard, the Requesters have also asked the Panel to mention three important
questions in which they ask for documents and information that they believe are needed for
effective engagement and dialogue. The Panel has referred these requests to Management. They
are for: a copy of the 2012 RAP after the demolition/forced eviction in March 2012; a copy of
the most recent revision of the 2013 RAP (or addendum to the 2012 RAP as was originally
indicated), along with related documents; and clarification about the timetable for the setting up
of the grievance mechanism with reference to certain deadlines identified in the Management
proposed actions. In this latter regard, the Requesters indicate that they expect no fewer than 350
persons who feel that they were wrongfully left off the final list to be submitting grievances.


                                                 3
        In light of the above, the Panel has decided to postpone its decision on Registration to
provide an opportunity for an early resolution of the concerns of the Requesters under the Pilot.
In accordance with the steps set out in the Pilot approach, th~ Panel will ask the Requesters and
Management to engage in dialogue directly on these matters, and to keep it updated on progress
in addressing the concerns of the Requesters. Also, in line with the Pilot approach, the
Requesters have the right at any time to indicate that they are not satisfied and would like the
Panel to register their Request.

        Not later than three months following the date of submission of this Notice, the Panel will
review the situation. If the Requesters are satisfied that their concerns are being successfully
addressed, and they so inform the Panel in writing, the Panel will not register the Request, and
will issue a Notice of Non-Registration. Otherwise, to be able to inform its judgment on whether
to close the matter or register the Request, the Panel may visit the Requesters and the project area
to have direct discussions. If the Panel decides to register the Request according to its normal
process, it will outline the process undertaken to that point as well as the basis for registering in
the Notice of Registration sent to the Board and Management.

       The Panel is providing this Notice to the Board to explain the basis for adopting this
approach to postpone its decision on registration of the Request, and providing this additional
opportunity for Management and Requesters to address the concerns of harm alleged in the
Request.

       The Request has been assigned IPN Request Number RQ 13/09.




Mr. Jim Yang Kim, President
International Development Association

The Executive Directors and Alternates
International Development Association




                                                 4
                                                                              October 29, 2013

                                       Annex 1

            Nigeria -Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project

                          Actions proposed by Bank Management


Purpose of the Memo

1.     The Purpose of this memo is to outline Bank Management's past and proposed actions to
address concerns expressed in the request for inspection of the Nigeria - Lagos Metropolitan
Development and Governance Project dated September 30, 2013. This information is for the
consideration of the Bank's Inspection Panel for the application of the Early Resolution Pilot
procedure, agreed between the Panel and Management.


Summary of the harm alleged in the Request

2.      The Requesters state that they are representing communities which have been adversely
affected by the following events during implementation of the LMDGP:

       "On March 6, 2012, without prior consultation, notice, compensation or resettlement,
       Lagos State Government demolished over 100 structures in Badia to make way for the
       construction of a drainage canal built under the LMDGP. Some homes were set on fire in
       the middle ofthe night; the others were demolished the following morning."

       "On February 23, 2013, without prior consultation, notice, compensation, or
       resettlement, Lagos State Government demolished hundreds of structures in the area of
       Badia immediately adjoining the newly constructed canal, forcefully evicting an
       estimated 9,000 Badia residents, the intended beneficiaries ofthe LMDGP. "


3.     The requesters state that efforts by the Government to mitigate the impacts of the cited
events have been insufficient to date:

        "While a retroactive Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) completed in December 2012
       provided minimal financial assistance to 124 Project Affected Persons displaced during
       the March 2012 forced eviction, the sums were insufficient to offset the harms suffered,
       especially in light or the delay of nearly nine months. Since the February 23, 2013, no
       relief or emergency aid measures have been undertaken to mitigate the present and
       extreme suffering of thousands of affected persons. "




                                              5
Summary of Actions taken so far

4.     There are two demolitions referred to in the request: The first demolition occurred in
2012 in connection with the construction of a canal and a road located in the Badia area of
Lagos. Management considered that, as the demolitions had occurred in the right-of-way of.the
canal, the Project-Affected Peoples (PAPs) should be compensated.          After months of
consultation with the community and a complex process of community verification a retroactive
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared and implemented by January 2013.

5.     The second demolition occurred on February 23rd, 20'13, in a section of Badia East. This
demolition was not undertaken as part of project implementation. However, the Financing
Agreement for the project states that all works related to upgrading urban facilities in Lagos -
whether financed by the project or not- need to be carried out in accordance with the project's
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF).

6.     Immediately after the 2013 demolitions the Bank team contacted the LMDGP team and
the Government of Lagos. The Bank's Country office engaged in fact finding and reached out to
representatives of the Social and Economic Rights Action Centre (SERAC), the NGO acting on
behalf of affected people. The Bank team visited the demolition site in mid-March and met with
SERAC. Soon after, the Country Director met with the Lagos Government to express the
urgency of adhering to Bank policies applicable to the project.

7.      A meeting with the Governor of Lagos was held on April 26, 2013, in Washington to
agree on the way forward. Bank Management agreed to assist the Government of Lagos with the
development of a detailed and time-bound action plan to address the demolition's impacts on the
affected people. During the meeting, the Bank management requested that no further demolitions
should take place except in accordance with the RPF, as provided for in the Financing
Agreement/Project Agreement and that the people affected by the demolitions in Badia East need
to be supported in a manner that is consistent with the provisions of the project's RPF.

8.      During a safeguards mission May 6-10, 2013 the Bank Team met with the Lagos
Government officials, the representatives of the affected people, SERAC, and the LMDGP team.
It was then agreed that:

    a.   By July 31, 2013 the Lagos Government would submit to the Bank a census and
         socioeconomic assessment to identify more precisely the affected population and lost
         assets and structures. The Bank team indicated to the Government that SERAC is also
         in the process of compiling a detailed list of all affected people. The Attorney General
         agreed that there was sufficient information to carry out a credible census.

    b.   By August 31, 2013, an addendum to the 2012 RAP would be shared with the Bank.
         This would include entitlements to compensation consistent with and using the same
         valuation methodology as in the 2012 RAP. The Government representatives clearly
         understood that the issue of equity and expectations needed to be managed and
         therefore the same level of compensation will be provided to people most recently
         affected by demolitions as those who affected by the 2012 demolitions. The Bank team


                                               6
         also explained to the Government that, in accordance with OP 4.12, the RAP addendum
         would need to explain why people could not be relocated to another site and why the
         Government was offering only the option of cash compensation. The Government
         representatives further agreed to ensure that the PAPs were provided with skills
         training, micro-credit, and employment opportunities since cash compensation only was
         being offered. All of these points as well as a schedule of activities and a budget will be
         in the addendum to the RAP.

9.     The Bank team also stressed the need to have a strong complaints handling mechanism
and that people would have recourse to go to court if they were not satisfied with the
compensation offered. The Bank team reiterated that it will continue to monitor the effective
implementation of the RAP beyond project closure.

10.    The Lagos Government has submitted the two reports as per the due dates. Further Bank
missions took place to support the RAP preparation. The Bank's comments on the draft RAP
were sent to the Lagos Government on September 11, 2013, suggesting that the Government's
Technical Committee: i) move forward with consultations with Community Representatives and
SERAC on the final census and financial proposal and ii) finalize implementation plans and
arrangements, while iii) simultaneously improving the quality/technical elements of the
document itself (the Bank letter included an annex with detailed comments on the RAP).

11.     In the second half of September 2013, efforts were made by both sides - the Government
and representatives of the PAPs - to agree on: i) the list of affected people and ii) the
compensation levels. The Bank team participated in some of these negotiations and observed the
good progress which was achieved. In particular, the Government agreed to increase the monthly
rental allowance to reflect an understanding that the community members may need to move to
more expensive premises; the Government also agreed to add a 5% contingency to the costs of
replacement of structures to reflect possible variations in price, etc. The draft RAP was cleared
by Bank Management on September 30, 2013, with the proviso that it may be further updated to
address some conditions that need to be worked out further or clarified, pending discussions with
the Technical Committee.

12.     Since the closing date, Management has regularly followed up with the Government of
Lagos on the implementation of the RAP. A meeting was held in Ahuja on October 8, 2013 with
the Director of the Lagos State Technical Committee to review the RAP implementation plan
including: (i) review of compensation levels, (ii) completion of list of beneficiaries, (iii) RAP
support to the livelihoods of the affected people ; (iv) the RAP complaints handling mechanism
and; (v) the timetable for implementation. More specifically the Bank team raised the following
issues for consideration by the Lagos State Government:

    a.   Rental Information: Lagos State Government has been requested to provide rental
         information for the PAPs. This will ensure that displaced persons have adequate
         information on rental and are able to secure legal housing.

    b.   Grievance mechanism: The Citizens Mediation Centre (CMC) is a core component of
         the grievance mechanism for the implementation of the RAP. As some concerns were


                                                 7
         raised the Bank has asked the Government to provide more information on the
         independence ofthe state-run CMC.

    c.   RAP Disclosure: It is important for Lagos Government to ensure that the RAP is
         disclosed to the public in Lagos (especially to all the PAPs).

    d.   RAP Implementation: Preparations for the effective implementation of the RAP will
         need to start immediately. Implementation modalities will need to be completed and
         appropriate human resources mobilized from the core PIU following project closure.

Proposed actions going forward

13.    Management intends to continue its efforts to address the concerns raised by the
requesters which have been mentioned earlier. This will include the following actions:

    a.    In May 2013, the Bank team had followed up with the community and SERAC
          regarding the December 2012 RAP. No concerns about compensation amounts were
          raised and the community expressed appreciation for the prompt handling of the
          matter by the Bank and the Government. As this issue has been raised in the Request,
          the Bank team will seek clarification from SERAC on the nature of these claims and
          the reasons why these could not brought to the attention of the Bank team. The Bank
          team will review these claims and follow up with the Government on redress as
          appropriate.

    b.    The Lagos Government is expected to submit the revised RAP on October 28, 2013.
          The Bank team will review it and ensure that it reflects the commitments made earlier
          and follow up on its disclosure to and consultation with the community.

    c.   The Lagos Government has committed to compensation payments by December 16,
         2013. IDA is financing US$ 3 million for the compensation to the PAPs; the
         Government will supplement this amount as and when necessary. The Bank team will
         work with the Technical Committee on speeding up the disbursement to ensure the
         payments are made within the grace period ofthe credit (January 31, 2014). If delays
         occur in the payment schedule, Bank management will seek an extension of the grace
         period.

Management would like to underscore the following points which in Management's view
provide a sound basis to implement the actions described above:

14.    Government Commitment. The Government has recognized and acknowledged its
continued obligation to implement the mitigation measures spelled out under the Bank' s
safeguard instruments notwithstanding the closure of the project. The Government has assured
the Bank of its commitment to do so.

15.    Funding for compensation payments has been secured. As stated above, the Bank has
cleared the draft RAP and will clear the final RAP shortly. The Bank has set aside funds for the

                                               8
RAP, which takes into account the Government' s estimate and includes a margin for any
contingencies. Bank Management is ready to consider extending the grace period to
accommodate the time requirements to reach agreement between the two sides on the exact
number of beneficiaries and the amount of compensation for the majority of the cases.

16.     The Bank has and will continue to supervise the RAP implementation. Bank
Management is committed to continue the close supervision of the implementation of the RAP
by: a) regular visits to Lagos by project team and management (the next mission is scheduled for
October 24, 2013), b) mobilizing an experienced local consultant paid by the Bank to provide
assistance to the Lagos Government in ensuring close adherence to Bank resettlement policies.

17.     Legal Remedies available to the Bank. The Bank has had good relationship with the
Lagos Government which has delivered on all of the agreements. Bank Management expects that
this positive and collaborative attitude will prevail in the next months in addressing the impacts
of the demolitions. This relationship is embedded in a strong on-going lending program with the
State anchored by the preparation of a Development Policy Operation which is an important
element in the Government's program. Notwithstanding this relationship, the Bank has always
the opportunity and the right to invoke all the remedies that are available under its legal
agreements.




                                                9
