Document of
The World Bank    flt Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3034-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELO-'
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
April 20, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        July 1979      January 1980 /1        April 1981
US Dollar 1          TL 47.10 /2       TL 70.0 /3          TL 98.20 /3
TL 1            -    US$ 0.02          US$ 0.01            US$ 0.01
/1 Since January 1980 the exchange rate is being adjusted to offset the
differential inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners.  A
rate of TL 95.95 = US$1.00 was used for this report.
./2  Except for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and fertilizer raw
materials, and exports of agricultural products benefitting from official
price supports, for which it was TL 35 = US$1.00.
/3 Except for imports of fertilizers and insecticides/pesticides, as well as
raw materials and inputs for their manufacture, for which the rate was
TL 55 = US$1.00 as from January 1980, and is TL 85.34 = US$1.00 as from
April 1981.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey;             March 1 to February 28
State Economic Enterprises:   January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DSI        -   State Hydraulic Works
DYB        -   State Investment Bank
EIE        -   Electricity Survey Administration of MENR
(see below)
LIBOR      -   London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
MAF        -   Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MENR       -   Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
M&LT       -   Medium and Long-Term
MTA         -   Mineral Research and Exploration Institute
SEE        -   State Economic Enterprise
SPO        -   State Planning Organization
TCZB       -   Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TEK        -   Turkish Electricity Authority
TKI        -   Turkish Coal Enterprises
TMO        -   Soil Products Office
TOPRAKSU   -   Land and Water Development Directorate of the
Ministry of Village Affairs and Cooperatives
TPAO       -   Turkish Petroleum Corporation
TZDK       -   Agricultural Supply Office
The Second Structural Adjustment Loan was appraised by a mission consisting of
Messrs. A. Zaman, D. Berk, R. Burcroff, I. Hume and H. van Wersch and
Ms. K. Saito



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan Summary                                                        i
PART I:    THE ECONOMY                                              1
Characteristics and Constraints                         1
Effectiveness of Government Policies                    3
Government Policy Priorities                            4
Investment, Savings and Projected Capital
Requirements                                          4
Creditworthiness                                        7
PART II:   THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM                                   8
Introduction                                            8
The IMF Program                                         9
A.  Macroeconomic Policies                             10
1.  Domestic Resource Mobilization                 10
- Tax Reform                                   10
- Scheme to Attract Emigrants' Savings         14
- Interest Rate Policy                         14
- Capital Market Development                   15
2.  Balance of Payments Policies                   17
- Export Promotion                             17
- Import Liberalization                        18
B.  Supply-Side Policies                               20
1.  Investment                                     20
- Public Investment                            20
- Investment Incentives                        22
2.  Energy                                         23
- Background                                   23
- Energy Policy                                25
- Pricing                                      25
- Conservation                                 26
- Organization and Management                  27
- Exploration and Development                  28
- Public Investment                            28
- Assessment of Energy Policy                  29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont.)
Page No.
3.  Agriculture                                  29
- Background                                 29
- The Government's Program                   30
- Input Prices                               31
- Support Prices                             32
- Exports                                    32
- Public Investment                          34
- Reorganization of Agricultural
Institutions                            35
- Assessment of Agricultural Policy          36
C.  State Economic Enterprises                        38
- Background                                      38
- The Government Program                          39
- Pricing and Financial Performance               41
- The 1981 Reforms                                44
- Evaluation                                      45
Evaluation of the Government's Program                45
Future Policy Directions                              47
PART III:  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY                        48
PART IV:   THE PROPOSED LOAN                                      50
Introduction                                          50
Performance under the Structural Adjustment
Loan (Supplement)                                  50
Macroeconomic Considerations Underlying
the Proposed Loan                                  52
Case for the Loan                                     54
Loan History                                          54
Cooperation with the IMF                              55
Loan Amount and Allocation                            55
Loan Administration Arrangements                      55
Counterpart Funds                                     56
Procurement                                           56
Monitoring                                            56
Risks                                                 57
PART V:    LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY                        57
PART VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS                                        57



ANNEXES
Annex I:   Economic Developments in 1980 and Short-term Prospects
Social and Economic Data
Annex II;  Status of Bank Group Operations in Turkey
Annex III: Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Annex IV:  Government Letter and Statement of Development Policy
Annex V:   IMF Transactions
MAP (No. IBRD 11656R dated August 1979)



TURKEY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower                  Republic of Turkey
Loan Amount               US$300 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms              :      17 years including 4 years grace, with interest at 9.6
percent.
Description               The loan will be in further support of Turkey's
January 1980 stabilization program, and measures
initiated and being implemented since then in areas
critical to restoring economic viability. These
policies provided the basis for the Structural
Adjustment Loan I (Loan No. 1818-TU) and its
Supplement (Loan No. 1915-TU). The policy measures
which provide the basis for this new loan are in the
areas of; (a) macroeconomic policies - domestic
resource mobilization, export promotion, and import
liberalization; (b) supply-side policies - public and
private investment, energy and agriculture; and
(c) reform of the State Economic Enterprises.
The loan will finance high priority imports leading to
fuller utilization of productive capacity in
agriculture and industry. For agriculture;
fertilizer raw materials and intermediate products
($200 million). For industry: raw materials and
intermediate products ( 100 million).
The main risks relate to possible political
developments in Turkey which might impede the
Government's determination and efforts to carry out
the policy reforms designed to restore domestic and
external financial equilibrium.
Estimated
Disbursements  ;                   US$ Million
Bank FY          1981           1982
Annual           50.0          250.0
Cumulative       50.0          300.0



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Second
Structural Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of
US$300 million to support the Government's program of policy reforms designed
to restore domestic and external financial equilibrium. The loan would have a
term of 17 years including 4 years of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A Special Economic Mission visited Turkey in April/May 1979 to
evaluate the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-1983). Its report entitled "Turkey:
Policies and Prospects for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU dated December 12, 1979) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 26, 1979 and its Postscript
on March 24, 1980. An appraisal mission for the proposed loan visited Turkey
in February 1981. Its findings are reflected below. Annex I contains the
basic Country Data, and provides updated information on recent economic
developments.
Characteristics and Constraints
3.       Turkey is a large country (about as big as France and Germany
combined), with an estimated GNP per capita of $1,330. With a population of
around 43 million, the density is low (78 per square kilometer of agricultural
land), and the rate of urbanization high (about 45 percent). Educational
enrollments have expanded greatly, but the rate of adult illiteracy remains
high (40 percent). Although population growth is not high by middle-income
country standards (2.5 percent per annum), the employment situation has
deteriorated steadily, with the unemployment rate about 20 percent, despite
rapid economic growth, and substantial emigration of workers to Western Europe
in the early 1970s. Almost no one in Turkey lives in absolute poverty but
income distribution is relatively unequal by international standards, and
urban social services are under considerable pressure. Income distribution
deteriorated in the middle 1960s but improved through the early 1970s. Data
for more recent periods is incomplete, but indicates a worsening especially of
the position of wage and salary earners over the last few years, with a sharp
real decline in the minimum wage. There are considerable regional
differences, and large rural-urban disparities.
4.       Agriculture is the most important sector in the economy, contributing
25 percent of GDP (1980), employing about 60 percent of the total labor force,
and providing the majority of merchandise exports (60 percent in 1980). As a
result, Turkey is one of the very few developing countries which is
self-sufficient in food. Yet, agriculture has been given a secondary role
compared to industry in Turkish development strategy. The main sector
objectives have been to (a) expand food supply for a growing population, and



-2-
(b) provide exports to finance the country's industrial effort. Turkish
agriculture is dualistic, with a modern irrigated commercial sector using
modern inputs in coastal areas to produce cash crops and most exports,
alongside traditional rainfed agriculture on the Anatolian plateau emphasizing
grains and livestock. Only a small part of the irrigation potential has been
developed despite massive investments, partly because these have emphasized
large slow-gestation projects.
5.       With its climatic, soil, water and human resources, Turkey has
considerable potential for expanding agricultural production and exports. The
major constraints on agricultural growth and productivity are: (a) limited
development of irrigation and drainage facilities and poor utilization of what
has been developed; (b) small and fragmented farm holdings (over 70 percent of
holdings are less than 5 hectares; over 95 percent, less than 20 hectares);
(c) inadequately funded and poorly coordinated research and extension
services; (d) insufficient availability of credit; and (e) inadequate
marketing arrangements, especially for export. Improvements in productivity
could be realized with a somewhat larger and more efficient allocation of
investments, backed by more coherent credit and price policies and support
services.
6.       Reflecting the heavy emphasis of Turkish development strategy on
rapid industrialization, manufacturing industry has absorbed about 25 to 30
percent of total investment. As a result, manufacturing today accounts for 21
percent of GDP, 38 percent of exports (mainly textiles -- about 50 percent --
and processed foods and leather products), but only 14 percent of employment.
The private sector is overwhelmingly dominant in exports, and accounts for
some 60 percent of value-added, and an even higher share of employment.
7.       Industrial policy has sought to achieve self-sufficiency through
import substitution, use of advanced technology and greater depth of
integration in productive processes, with consequent priority for
capital-intensive investments in basic and intermediate products. As a
result, capital/labor ratios have risen rapidly. Exports have generally been
given a secondary role, and account for only 6 to 7 percent of sector output.
The principal policy instruments used have been large public investments in
State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) and generous incentives combined with high
levels of protection for private investments. These policies have yielded
high growth rates, domestic production of some important basic and
intermediate goods based on local natural resources, adoption of modern
technology and training of a skilled labor force, as well as some dispersal of
modern industries to less developed regions. But they have also resulted in
the establishment of a number of uncompetitive industries, wasteful of scarce
capital and too dependent on imported inputs, with low employment and limited
export possibilities.
8.       The major constraints to industrial development, which the Government
is attempting to overcome, are: (a) low levels of capacity utilization;
(b) limited export capability in some subsectors; (c) inefficiency of the
manufacturing SEEs; (d) uneven quality of investments; and (e) lack of
sufficient long-term financing for industry.



- 3 -
9.       Turkey has large underdeveloped energy resources (hydropower and
lignite), but very little petroleum. Energy consumption has grown in line
with GDP but remains below the per capita average for middle-income developing
countries. However, imported petroleum accounts for over 85 percent of
petroleum consumption and about 45 percent of total energy consumption. As a
result, the oil bill was $3.3 billion in 1980, equivalent to 113 percent of
merchandise exports, probably the highest figure in the world.
10.      The energy situation has become a major preoccupation of the
Government and the sector has been accorded the highest economic priority.
Prices for most products -- especially petroleum products -- have been brought
belatedly into line with world prices or other indices of real costs to the
economy. Investment in energy has the largest share in the public investment
program. The principal constraints in the sector are: (a) organization and
management of the main sector institutions; (b) the lack of a comprehensive
conservation program; (c) over-dependence on petroleum, especially imported
petroleum; (d) insufficient resources for exploration; and (e) poor project
implementation capacity, especially in the coal/lignite sub-sector.
Effectiveness of Government Policies
11.      Effective public policies in the period from 1950 until the early
1970s were responsible for the achievement of rapid economic growth, with
substantial growth in industrial capacity. Both the pattern of growth, and
the degree of recourse to external finance, however, resulted in the
substantial problems with which Turkey is confronted today. At the same time,
income distribution remained relatively unequal; employment creation
inadequate; savings performance poor; and the industrial structure created to
achieve import-substitution behind high protection, in many cases
inefficient. Industry absorbed large investment resources yet provided
neither exports nor employment at sufficient levels.
12.      Since the early 1970s, economic management: has suffered due to
political instability at home, which has thwarted effective decision-making.
At the same time, economic problems have increased in complexity due to
serious economic shocks emanating from abroad -- international inflation,
leading to a sharp rise in Turkey's import prices (including oil) and a
significant deterioration in her terms of trade, high interest rates resulting
in an increased debt servicing burden, and recession in Western Europe leading
to reduced export prospects and emigration possibilities. Inappropriate
(expansionary) policies in response to the crisis delayed Turkey's adjustment
to the changed international environment, so that by 1977 the country was in a
severe foreign exchange crisis. Since then, it has taken some time to evolve
a new set of policies more appropriate to Turkey's current difficult
situation. Since the late 1970s, however, the Government has made a series of
efforts -- exemplified in the stabilization programs, worked out in close
consultation with the IMF, in early 1978, 1979 and 1980 -- to restore price
stability, creditworthiness, and a balance in domestic and external finances.
On balance, given the exceptional nature of the difficulties of the last few
years, and when compared to the record of other developing countries, the
record of Turkish economic management has been a good one.



-4-
Government Policy Priorities
13.      Turkey's long-term development strategy has been aimed at modernizing
the country through rapid growth based on high rates of investment, the main
emphasis being on industrialization, the use of the most modern technology,
and self-sufficiency. A long-term aim set in the early 1970s was to reach the
then current Italian standard of living by the time of proposed EEC membership
for Turkey in 1995. Social development has been a prominent objective along
with economic transformation. Consistent emphasis has been placed on the
integration and development of backward regions. However, with high rates of
emigration in the 1960s and early 1970s employment pressures have been
minimal, and employment creation has not been given a high priority. Among
sectors, industry and power have been emphasized rather than agriculture.
14.      The new regime, which took over following the military intervention
on September 12, 1980, has set about to restore political order, following a
period of rampant terrorism, paralysis of the constitutional process
(evidenced by the failure to elect a new President and to enact laws) and
widespread labor unrest. One of the first acts of the new regime was to end
the numerous strikes and lock-outs which had seriously disrupted the economy
(the number of strike-days lost in 1980 was 20 percent more than the total for
the previous eight years). The military have emphasized that, as in the prior
interventions in 1960-61 and 1971-73, they will revert to constitutional rule
and transfer power back to civilian authorities once order has been restored.
15.      Since January 1980, there has been a substantial shift in policy
priorities, which the new regime has strongly endorsed, but the Government has
continued to focus much more on short-term than on medium-term concerns.
Also, in view of the severity of the immediate financial stringency, the
Government has accepted the need for a temporary sacrifice of growth and of
social objectives in order to bring down inflation and improve the balance of
payments as quickly as possible. The Fourth Plan macroeconomic targets have
been tacitly abandoned, along with medium-term planning in general. Financial
aspects of economic management, especially availability of local currency and
foreign exchange have come to dominate policy concerns. In development
issues, there has been a change in sectoral emphasis to favor the development
of energy and agriculture at the expense of that of manufacturing especially
as far as the allocation of public sector resources is concerned. There is a
return to a traditional view of the division of labor between the public and
the private sectors, with the former now expected to concentrate on the
provision of infrastructure while the latter provides the main impetus to
industrial growth and exports. Development strategy has been changed to give
much greater weight to exports relative to import-substitution. Finally, and
most significantly, reliance on the market mechanism is being emphasized as
against more centralized planning.
Investment, Savings and Projected Capital Requirements
16.      The Government's development strategy committed it to raising the
level of investment relative to GDP at a fairly rapid rate. Total investment
increased at a 15-20 percent annual rate in real terms over the decade



1967-77, with public investment growing at a more pronounced rate than
private. Since 1977, both public and private investment have been declining
in real terms; with private investment falling at a faster rate, the public
sector share is now approaching 60 percent. The sharp decline in investment
since 1977 reflects the severe shortage of domestic and external resources
that has existed since then.
17.      While the rate of investment rose from 19 percent of GDP in 1967 to
26 percent in 1977, savings stayed virtually constant at an average of around
17 percent of GDP. This widening in the savings-investment gap was
comparatively greater in the public sector; in 1972-73 public savings amounted
to 9 percent of GDP and were more than sufficient to cover public investment,
but by 1977 they declined to 7 percent of GDP and covered only 55 percent of
public investment. In the private sector, the savings rate also declined
during these years (from 11 to 9 percent of GDP). Over the last three years,
savings performance continued to be poor in both the public sector, where the
Government has had to bear the large financial losses of the SEEs, and the
private sector.
18.      The growing gap between domestic savings and investment was
increasingly financed by both medium and short-term borrowing from abroad.
Turkey obtained increased support and debt rescheduling from the members of
the OECD Consortium for Turkey and diversified its aid relationships with OPEC
countries (especially Saudi Arabia). Loan commitments, which totalled $2.5
billion during 1972-75, increased to $8.0 billion during 1976-79. Medium and
long-term external debt outstanding and disbursed rose from $2.5 billion at
the end of 1972 to $4.8 billion by 1977 and an estimated $12.8 billion by
1980. Gross public M&LT disbursements in 1980 were around $1.1 billion.
19.      The estimation of capital requirements over the medium-term is
particularly hazardous at this juncture. Nevertheless, if the investment rate
is projected at 21 percent of GDP over the next five years, and gross domestic
savings to rise slightly to 18 percent of GDP by 1985, the current account
deficit in current dollars can be projected to decrease to 4 percent of GDP by
1985 (compared to about 5 percent in 1980). Considering the limitation on
available external assistance and given the need for continued sound external
debt management, Turkey can sustain the implied current account deficits of
the order of $3-3.5 billion annually in 1981 and 1982, given further
quick-disbursing assistance. The deficits are projected to increase gradually
to around $4 billion annually in the mid 1980s, but it should be possible to
finance an increasing proportion from commercial sources without endangering
creditworthiness, provided the commercial banks become willing to resume
lending to Turkey on a net basis. Taking into account the substantial
obligations for debt amortization, despite agreed and prospective debt
rescheduling, large annual gross inflows of foreign capital will be required,
rising steadily from $3 to 7 billion per annum during the next five years, to
permit a reasonable rate of growth.
20.      Past and prospective movements of the main macroeconomic indicators
are shown in the Table below.



- 6 -
MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
Levels                  Average Annual
(Units)      Actual   Estimated   Projected    Real Growth Rates
1975      1980        1985         1975-80   1980-85
A.  GDP                        1978 $bn        44.9       53.1        65.3            3.4        4.2
B.  Exports of goods           Current $bn      1.4        2.9         7.9            6.4       11.7
Imports of goods               "            4.7       6.9        13.1           -7.2        4.0
- oil:  value                 "           (0.8)      (3.3)      (6.8)           8.9        5.5
volume           m. tons         (9.8)    (13.1)       (17.2)           8.9        5.5
Current account
balance                 Current $bn    -1.9        -2.8        -4.1
Gross Public M&LT
capital inflows /1                        0.3       2.0         3.1
Net Public M&LT
capital inflows /1                      0.2        1.0         1.0
Period Averages
C.  Investment/GDP                 %           24         21          21             24        21
Gross domestic
savings/GDP                             17         17          18             18         17
Marginal national
savings rate                            27      Negative       26             17         26
D.  Exports of goods/GDP
(current prices)            %            4          6           8
Oil imports/Exports
of goods                                58        113          86
Current account
balance/GDP                  %           -5        -5          -4
Debt service ratio /2          "            8        12          41
Terms of trade             1978=100       100        78          77
/1  Includes private guaranteed and non-guaranteed debt.
/2 Differs from figures in previous reports due to (i) taking account of debt relief provided
through the debt rescheduling arrangements; and (ii) use of the standard definition which
excludes interest on short-term debt.



- 7 -
21.      Given the accumulation of economic problems, the substantially
increased cost of oil imports, and the difficulty of significantly increasing
the net inflow of capital, Bank projections suggest that GDP growth per annum
may only average around 4 percent in real terms, and provided Turkey achieves
a real growth of exports of about 11 percent per annum and can attract the
projected inflows of external capital during 1980-1985. These growth rates
appear attainable, assuming continuation of appropriate economic measures, and
taking into account the low export base and market prospects especially in the
OPEC countries, and the present underutilization of industrial capacity. The
inflation rate should come dowin progressively.  However, employment prospects
are less sanguine, and even if substantial efforts are made, the unemployment
rate is likely to rise significantly above its already high level.
22.      The future rate of international inflation (including oil price
increases) will have a major impact on future prospects. It is estimated that
even if the volume of oil imports in 1980 had been held at 1977 levels, the
inflationary cost increase would have been around $1.8 billion; similarly, in
1980 the inflationary cost increase alone of the 1977 volume of Turkish
imports from OECD countries would have been around $1.7 billion. During
1980-1985, even if Turkey allows the volume of oil imports to increase only as
fast as GDP, the oil import bill is estimated to increase from $3.3 to $6.8
billion; as a percentage of exports of goods, the oil bill was equivalent to
113 percent in 1980 and is only likely to decline to 86 percent by 1985. The
pressure this will exert on Turkey's already difficult balance of payments
position is obvious.
23.      A significant determinant of future prospects, in addition to
increased aid flows, will be the negotiation of substantive improvements in
trade policies towards Turkey. The benefits expected from Turkey's 1963
Association Agreement with the European Economic Community (EEC) have been
progressively eroded by the associate membership of other southern European
countries, trade and other agreements with Mediterranean countries and the
privileges accorded to signatories of the Lome Conventions, and by EEC
restrictions on labor movement and on textile exports. Revised agreements
between the EEC and Turkey in 1977 and 1980 have only partly compensated for
this erosion, but offer hope for a better future relationship. On the other
hand, Turkey has succeeded in diversifying its trade to include larger shares
for both OPEC countries and the centrally planned economies.
Creditworthiness
24.      At the end of 1977, Turkey faced an overwhelming debt burden.  Its
adjustment to the international economic shocks of the previous few years had
been delayed partly by resorting to large-scale external borrowing, especially
short-term borrowing. Short-term debt outstanding increased from $216 million
at end 1974 to $7.5 billion by end 1978, when total medium and long-term debt
outstanding and disbursed was $6.8 billion. When external confidence
collapsed in 1977, Turkey was left with service payment obligations for 1978
(mostly on short-term debt) of $5.1 billion (including arrears), or nearly
three times the value of merchandise exports in 1977. Prolonged discussions



- 8 -
with over 200 creditor banks resulted in an agreement in July 1979 to
reschedule a total of $3.0 billion in short-term liabilities, including some
$2.4 billion in convertible Turkish Lira deposits and $400 million banker's
credits (both at 1.75 percent above the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR),
with 7 years maturity including 3 years grace) and $300 million in third party
reimbursement credits (also at 1.75 percent above LIBOR, but with an
accelerated repayment schedule). Some $0.3 billion in oil loans were also
rescheduled in 1979. At the end of 1980, arrears on unguaranteed trade
credits were consolidated in an amount of around $1 billion. As a result of
these exercises, short-term debt outstanding at end 1980 was $3.3 billion.
Finally, in January 1981 leading commercial banks agreed in principle to
extend the terms of the 1979 commercial debt rescheduling. A series of
large-scale rescheduling operations relating to medium and long-term official
debt also took place. In 1978, 1979 and 1980 OECD member creditors
rescheduled $1.0, $1.1 and $2.5 billion, respectively, of debt service
obligations and accumulated arrears (the last exercise including some
re-rescheduling). The terms of the 1980 rescheduling were 8 to 10 years
including 4 to 5 years of grace, and it provided debt relief estimated at $1.1
billion in 1980 and another $0.8 billion in 1981, with smaller amounts
thereafter.
25.      The effect of these debt rescheduling exercises on Turkey's debt
structure and debt service profile has been dramatic and has led to a
substantial revision of previous projections. Service payments on short-term
debt are now of manageable proportions. The estimated medium and long-term
debt service ratio for 1979 was 14 percent, and for 1980 12 percent (of
exports of goods and non-factor services and workers' remittances). During
the next 5 years, however, much of the rescheduled debt must be repaid. As a
result the ratio is expected to climb rapidly again, to 41 percent in 1985 and
a peak of 45 percent in the late 1980s. These figures, which are still in the
process of being finalized, compare with 26 percent for 1979, and a peak of 45
percent by 1984, mentioned in recent President's Reports on loans to Turkey.
Despite the rapid increase the debt burden should remain manageable provided
current policies are successfully implemented, the export drive is sustained,
and Turkey continues to receive further international support from both
private and official donors.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM
Introduction
26.      The Government's January 1980 stabilization program was a major
departure from the strategy and policies pursued by Turkey over the last two
decades. Measures were introduced with its announcement and again in
June/July 1980 to implement some of the key policies. Further measures have
been introduced starting in November 1980, and will continue to be introduced
during the remainder of 1981, to carry forward the work of reform. The Bank
supported this process through the first Structural Adjustment Loan for $200
million approved in March 1980, and its Supplement for $75 million approved in
November 1980, and will support its continuing implementation through the
proposed loan.



- 9 -
27.      The objectives of the January 1980 program, as well as the areas and
directions of initiatives taken, were explained in a letter dated February 7,
1980 to the Bank from the Undersecretary, Prime Ministry. In addition to
demand management policies, they focused on four main areas: (a) export
promotion, through a rational exchange rate policy and financial and
institutional incentives; (b) domestic resource mobilization, through an
increased tax effort, gradual reform of the SEEs and interest rate
liberalization; (c) rational public investment policies; and (d) improved
external debt management. These four areas were emphasized and monitored
under the first Structural Adjustment Loan and its Supplement since they were
critical to both restoring viability to the economy and spearheading the
process of structural adjustments over the medium term. As previously
reported, satisfactory progress led to the release of the second tranche of
the Structural Adjustment Loan I on July 30, 1980 (Sec M80-596), and of the
final tranche on October 23, 1980 (Sec M80-804); the loan is fully disbursed.
Progress since November 1980 in implementing the Government's program, which
has been monitored under the Supplement loan, is reviewed by policy area
below, summarized in the Table following paragraph 174, and evaluated in
paragraph 175.
28.      The new measures taken since the Supplement loan or to be taken
shortly, in these and other new policy areas, are set out in a Statement of
Development Policies attached to a letter from the Deputy Prime Minister to
the Bank dated February 20, 1981 (Annex IV). The measures focus on the
following key policy areas; (a) macroeconomic policies -- domestic resource
mobilization, export promotion, and import liberalization; (b) supply-side
policies -- public and private investment, energy and agriculture; and
(c) reform of the State Economic Enterprises. Each is discussed in turn
below, with updating to reflect the Government's continuing progress since
February 1981 in implementing its program. Further progress in these major
areas will be monitored in connection with the proposed loan (paras. 49, 54,
64, 92, and 157, and Loan Agreement, Section 3.04 and Schedule 4).
The IMF Program
29.      Following the announcement of the January 1980 program, the IMF
accelerated the release of the remaining tranches of the July 1979 stand-by
arrangement. In June 1980 it was replaced by a new three-year stand-by
arrangement involving SDR 1.25 billion (about $1.63 billion), with
SDR 460 million (about $600 million) in the first year, SDR 400 million (about
$520 million) in the second year and SDR 390 million (about $510 million) in
the third year. The key conditions of the new stand-by are that: (i) the
exchange rate is to be kept flexible; (ii) the financial position of the
public sector is to be improved, mainly as a result of the restructuring of
the operational policies of the SEEs; (iii) monetary conditions are to be kept
extremely tight, as a result of the observance of limits on Central Bank
lending; and (iv) interest rates are to be adjusted to reflect market
conditions. The IMF is of the opinion that the Turkish authorities have made
serious efforts to implement the stabilization program being supported by the
stand-by arrangement. Despite pressures arising from the continuing weakness



- 10 -
of the public finances, Central Bank credit has been kept within the strict
limits set; external competitiveness appears to have been broadly maintained;
and a more flexible and realistic interest rate policy has been adopted. A
review of the stand-by was satisfactorily concluded in January 1981, and the
third drawing was made available on schedule in that month. In April 1981
further discussions under the stand-by, to review subsequent developments and
to set credit ceilings for the second quarter of 1981, were also completed
satisfactorily.
A. MACROECONOMIC POLICIES
Domestic Resource Mobilization
30.      As discussed in Part I, domestic savings have for years been
inadequate for Turkey's investment needs. Moreover, they have declined by 3
percentage points of GDP from 1978 to an estimated 17 percent in 1980. Public
saving has declined particularly sharply, from 8 to 4 percent of GDP, due
primarily to large SEE deficits and an inadequate tax effort. Private saving
performance has also been disappointing. There has been substantial diversion
of funds to the unorganized money market, as interest rates have become
increasingly negative in real terms.
31.      The Government's response to the domestic savings constraint has been
to grant greater pricing autonomy to the SEEs (para. 140), implement a major
tax reform, implement a scheme to attract emigrants' savings, deregulate
commercial bank interest rates, and take steps to develop the capital market.
(a) Tax Reform
32.      Turkey is currently undertaking a comprehensive and far-reaching tax
reform. These changes were long overdue. The existing tax laws were enacted
more than a decade ago and the rates were no longer meaningful.  Serious
distortions emerged because rapid inflation and the failure to adjust the
progressive income tax schedule meant that the tax burden on wage and salary
earners had become excessive, with low income groups particularly suffering
from the erosion of the real value of personal exemptions. Income tax had
become a flat-rate tax of 55 percent on wage and salary earners unable to
evade it, and as a result, the taxation of this group accounted for about 70
percent of total income tax revenue. The distribution of the tax burden
between public and private sector employees had become increasingly
inequitable, with income tax being avoided in the private sector through
tax-free allowances. Moreover, lags in revenue collection and administration,
together with non-adjustment of tax penalties, compensated the nominal fiscal
drag usually associated with taxation under inflationary conditions to such a
degree that the income elasticity of the tax system as a whole did not
increase. In fact, it declined, since it was cheaper to pay penalties than to
pay taxes, and also due to the existence of specific taxes. The budgetary
situation was further complicated by the fact that until January 1980, the
prices of many goods and services were set by the Government, and the
political and administrative difficulties of adjusting these prices to
inflation led to heavy losses in real revenues.



- 11 -
33.      The Government recognized the urgent need for tax reform in its
January 1980 program, and presented two bills to Parliament in February.
However, it was not until the new regime came to power that enactment became
possible. The Government took this opportunity to widen the scope of the
reform to encompass three broad objectives; to bring about a more equitable
distribution of the tax burden, to generate additional net revenue through
increasing the tax buoyancy, and to improve the efficiency of tax
administration. By December 1980, the Government had submitted twenty-four
bills to the National Security Council, ranging from fundamental reforms of
the tax system to modifications in existing taxes; most of the important bills
have already been enacted.
34.      The most important tax change already enacted concerns the income tax
system, in which there are three major reforms. First, the personal income
tax schedule has been revised with a view to restoring progressivity to the
system. There are substantial increases in the income tax brackets and in the
level of tax-exempt earnings, so that under the new system wage-earners will
be mostly in the 40 percent tax bracket (equivalent to an effective rate after
deductions of about 32 percent). After an estimated one-time revenue loss of
TL 140 billion in 1981, the new scheme is expected to have an important
positive impact on revenue over the medium term. Second, the widespread tax
evasion by professionals and self-employed persons is to be reduced through a
new system of assessed taxes paid in advance, with the burden of proof in
challenging the assessment falling on the taxpayer, and the assessment
contestable only at the end of the fiscal year. The lump sum tax on artisans
and small businessmen is also increased. These changes are expected to yield
about TL 170 billion in 1981, more than compensating for the revenue loss
incurred through the personal income tax changes, and reflecting both more
progressive tax rates and an expected increase in the number of taxpayers.
Third, the other major sector which has been little taxed, agriculture, is to
be taxed for the first time on a systematic basis by subjecting sales of
agricultural products to a 5 percent withholding tax. In addition, the
taxation of farmers' incomes is modified by reducing the farm size used as the
basis for small-farmer exemption, reducing permitted tax deductions and
raising the level of minimum agricultural taxation. Revenue from agricultural
earnings is thereby expected to increase from about TL 2 billion in previous
years to TL 55 billion in 1981.
35.      The corporation tax has been simplified by abolishing the income tax
withholding, which discriminated against distribution of profits and was also
costly to administer. The effective rate of tax on profits increases from 43
to 53 percent, with a new income tax credit of 25 percent for individuals
partly compensating for the increased tax rate. Distributed profits are no
longer subject to double taxation. The new system has important tax
exemptions and deductions designed to encourage exporting and other foreign
exchange earning activities (paras. 51 and 73).
36.      Other laws already enacted provide for substantial increases in a
wide range of fixed rate taxes and duties and the strengthening of the revenue
base of municipalities through the provision of 5 percent of central
government tax revenue (a separate bill identifying new revenue sources for



- 12 -
the municipalities together with large increases in existing taxes has not yet
been passed). A major strengthening in tax administration is to be achieved
through a stiffening of penalties for tax evasion, improvements in tax
collection staff by better training, budget allocations (already implemented
-- see para. 40) and possibly remuneration, and the establishment of new tax
courts under a draft law already approved by the Council of Ministers.
37.        The Government further intends to enact the following additional tax
measures; introduction of a value added tax during fiscal 1982 (the draft law
has been approved by the Council of Ministers); reduction of the transaction
tax on interest by May 1981; rationalization of production and sales taxes,
also by May 1981; and introduction of the principle of index-linking specific
taxes, income tax brackets and tax penalties by December 1981. It also
intends to continue improving tax administration.
38.        The Government expects the tax reform measures to yield around TL 240
billion (3 percent of GNP) in 1981, bringing the total projected revenue to
TL 1355 billion (89 percent more than in 1980). The impact of the tax reform
package is shown in the Table below. This is based on a projected increase in
nominal income of around 45 percent and the assumption that about 50 percent
of the tax base generated in 1980 would be subject to tax collection in 1981,
as well as a projected increase in the buoyancy of total taxes from an average
of 0.99 over the last five years to 1.16 in 1981, and that of personal income
tax from 1.07 to 1.18 in 1981.
ESTIMATES OF REVENUE AND IMPACT OF TAX REFORM
(Amounts in TL billion)
1980                                  1981
Of which       Percent Change in Revenue
Revenue       Revenue        due to         With          Without
Estimate      Estimate       tax reform     tax reform    tax reform
Taxes on income            426.5          817.2          145.2          (91.6)        (57.6)
Personal income tax     358.0          691.2          140.0 Li       (93.1)        (54.0)
Corporation tax          33.0           76.0           15.0        (130.3)         (84.8)
Other /2                 35.2           50.            -9.8          (42.0)       (-14.2)
Taxes on wealth              9.4           16.5            5.8          (75.5)        (13.8)
Taxes on goods             105.9          188.6           29.5          (78.1)        (50.2)
Taxes on services           78.6          182.5           55.5         (132.2)        (61.6)
Taxes on foreign trade      97.7          150.0            -            (53.5)        ( - )
Total tax revenue       718.1         1354.8          236.0          (88.7)        (55.8)
/1 TL 140 billion is the net increase of the following elements of the
personal income tax;  revision of personal income tax schedule - TL 140
billion; receipts from taxpayers in advance payments category + TL 170
billion; increase in lump sum taxes + TL 30 billion; agricultural sales tax
+ TL 50 billion; witbholdings from real estate earnings and increase in tax
on interest earned + TL 20 billion; other TL 10 billion.
12 Fiscal balance tax (rate reduced in tax package) and capital gains tax on
real estate.



- 13 -
39.      These estimates considerably exceed those of earlier schemes, due to
the large number of discretionary tax increases. The underlying assumptions
generally appear feasible. The assumed increase in nominal income of 45
percent is, as explained in Annex I, para. 8, conservative, and an increase of
around 60 percent is more likely. Moreover, the assumption of a 50 percent
carry-over effect of the tax base is in line with earlier experience. The
buoyancy estimates, which are based on a real growth in GDP of 3 percent, are
more difficult to evaluate. Where there is no major change in the tax base
and revenue growth is mainly a function of tax rate increases, the estimates
can be corroborated (e.g. as with taxes on services). The major question is
with the income tax reform, which is expected to generate 60 percent of the
net revenue of the tax package. The feasibility of this depends on the
effectiveness of the new system of advance payments by non-wage earners,
particularly ensuring appropriate tax assessments by local commissions, and
bringing into the scope of the system the estimated 1.15 million taxpayers
potentially involvsd; efficient collection of lump-sum taxation from an
estimated 800,000 taxpayers; and effectively taxing agricultural sales
proceeds. For such a revenue yield to be realized, a major strengthening is
clearly needed in tax administration. This is particularly the case with the
taxation of professionals and self-employed, which is not only the principal
source of new revenue but also a difficult tax to administer. However, with
most assessments completed and assessment challenges not permitted until the
end of the fiscal year, 1981 collections should be reasonably secure. The
first two installments of the tax are to be paid in April and July, permitting
an early check on collections.
40.      The tax package should result in a more equitable distribution of the
tax burden, which, as described in para. 32, had become grossly distorted.
Improvements in equity should be substantial among middle and upper-income
groups with the progressivity of the revised income tax schedule. However,
the schedule could be improved through a more gradual progression in the tax
rates at the lower income levels; currently all incomes less than TL 1 million
or just over $10,000, which apply to most taxpayers, are subject to the same
tax rate of 40 percent, so that even after exemptions the tax burden on an
income of TL 300,000 is only marginally less than on an income of TL 1
million. In terms of equity between sectors, the changes regarding the
taxation of agricultural earnings are particularly welcome, since this is one
sector which has been grossly undertaxed. As a result of the tax reform, the
share in total income tax receipts of the taxes on agricultural earnings is
expected to rise from 2 to around 8 percent. Self-employed and professionals
have also borne a disproportionately small share of the tax burden, and while
the tax reform creates the conditions for this group to pay their share of
taxes, success will depend on adequate improvements in tax administration to
implement this and other reforms. While needed institutional changes in tax
administration have been and are being made (para. 36), better remuneration
and training for revenue officers, as well as an increase in their number, are
also necessary. This has yet to be done, but a start has been made with a 62
percent increase in allocations for the Revenue Department of the Ministry of
Finance in the 1981 budget as compared to last year. In terms of impact on
incentives, changes in the corporate tax law (paras. 51 and 73) have been made
to stimulate export activity (e.g. permitting tax deductible export earnings)



- 14 -
as well as investment (e.g. extending investment allowances to investments
financed from sources other than own assets, and increasing the allowances in
the case of investments in less-developed regions). The proposed reduction in
transaction tax is particularly welcome and should encourage greater financial
intermediation, and the bias against distribution of corporate profits and
hence against development of the stock market is removed through corporate tax
changes. Some negative impact on saving in financial assets may, however,
result from raising the rate of taxation of income earned from such assets.
Perhaps the most important incentive effect would be the discouragement of tax
evasion; through the substantial raising of tax penalties and expected
improvements in tax administration. Again, as with the impact on revenue and
equity, the conclusion is that the tax reform measures are basically sound,
but that adequate resources need to be made available to ensure successful
implementation. Moreover, the tax package needs to be completed by the
introduction of a value-added tax and by the indexation of tax brackets and
specific taxes. It is the Government's intention to undertake these measures
by 1982 and December 1981, respectively.
(b) Scheme to Attract Emigrants' Savings
41.      In December 1980, the Government introduced a new savings scheme to
promote the inflow of savings of emigrant workers. The scheme provides for
Turkish banks to open deposits in foreign exchange at competitive yields,
which upon maturity are either renewable or convertible into Turkish Lira at
the prevailing exchange rate. The scheme thus provides Turkish workers abroad
with a competitive outlet for their savings in Turkey, while avoiding the
problematic features of the previous convertible Turkish lira deposit scheme.
(c) Interest Rate Policy
42.      Interest rates are seen as a major policy instrument for mobilizing
and allocating savings in the January 1980 program. The Government
acknowledges the negative impact of recent high rates of inflation on the
accumulation of savings in financial form and the efficiency of the market
mechanism for mobilizing and allocating resources. On July 1, 1980 it
deregulated interest rates on all time deposits and loans, and intends to
ensure that this is fully implemented and leads to rates reflecting
inflationary expectations. It has had a considerable degree of success,
especially over the last few months. Deregulation plus the introduction of
Government bonds at competitive rates, led to successive large increases in
commercial bank deposit rates through February 1981; for example, rates on
deposits of 6 months rose from 12 to 42 percent per annum, while those on
deposits of 4 years or more rose from 26 to 50 percent per annum. Certain
unregulated brokers now offer a 56 percent yield, annualized over two years.
Lending rates have risen to a range of 29-41 percent per annum depending on
maturity, and before taking account of taxes and fees. The effective cost of
long-term credit to borrowers not receiving any incentives goes as high as 60
percent.
43.      There has been a significant response to these developments in
deposit rates. In the one month of July 1980, total deposits grew TL 48
billion, only slightly less than the total increase over the January to June



- 15 -
period. Since then, deposit growth has continued to be impressive; between
August and November, total deposits grew by TL 107 billion, three times the
deposits accumulated over the same months in 1979. While most of these new
deposits were demand deposits, the growth in time deposits was substantial,
amounting to TL 25 billion, some eight times the increase over the
corresponding months of 1979. In addition, the introduction of bearer
certificates of deposit appears to have successfully brought into the
organized financial system some of the funds from the considerable volume of
parallel market activity of the last few years.
44.      The Government has reaffirmed its commitment to an interest rate
policy which is effective in attracting financial savings and efficiently
allocating investible funds. It intends to raise the rate of interest on
Government bonds to levels required in light of market conditions to achieve
its borrowing targets. After the passage of the capital market bill
(para. 46), it intends to lift the ceilings on the interest rates on private
bond issues, which were raised to a range of 28 to 32 percent depending on
maturity in 1980 but are no longer competitive.
(d) Capital Market Development
45.      The capital market in Turkey is particularly underdeveloped.  The
bulk of non-monetary financial liabilities is issued by the public sector, and
consists largely of bonds sold with the help of statutory provisions. There
is one small stock exchange, and the shallow market which does exist is
controlled by major brokers, banks and large holding companies partly as a
result of taxation and commercial practices. Most private corporations are
closely held, and the underdeveloped state of the stock market, the widespread
issue of bearer shares and the non-existence of transferable rights continue
to inhibit the widening of ownership. As a result, the capital market is not
a significant source of long-term domestic currency financing for industry;
about 50 percent of fixed investment in the organized private sector of
industry is financed by banks, another 40 percent out of internally generated
funds, about 4 percent through direct foreign financing, only about 8 percent
from bond issues and a negligible proportion by new share issues. During the
last two years, there has been increased activity in the bond market; in the
first nine months of 1980, the flotation of private bonds amounted to TL 13.4
billion, almost triple the volume in the whole of 1979 and seven times that in
1978. This development is due mainly to the placement of bonds of large
well-known private companies by private unregulated brokers who were able to
offer competitive yields on the bonds by purchasing them below par value.
46.      The Government expects enactment shortly of a bill already approved
by the Council of Ministers on the regulation and control of the capital
market which has three main aspects. First, it establishes a legal framework
for the issue and trading of shares and bonds through setting up a new High
Council on Regulation and Control of Capital Markets. A company wishing to
sell shares or bonds must first obtain approval by the High Council.
Independent auditors who are professional chartered accountants (see para. 48)
and are acceptable to the Council will examine the financial viability of such
firms. To ensure adequate and accurate information, the Council will enforce



- 16 -
standardized accounts and other pertinent information and minimum accounting
standards. It is authorized to halt sales by a company deemed financially
unsound. Second, the bill introduces regulation of financial intermediaries
dealing in stocks and bonds. The Council will determine their financial
solvency and certify them on conditions it will determine. Third, banks are
also permitted to establish a stock investment fund for the purpose of
operating a stock portfolio. This fund will operate portfolios of stocks and
bonds and will be composed of money collected from the public against
participating certificates issued by the Bank. The Government has requested
IFC assistance in implementing this framework legislation and IFC has
commented on the draft law.
47.      The new bill takes the essential first steps in developing the
capital market through establishing an independent authority to supervise the
capital market. The bill should also significantly contribute to increasing
the flow of private savings; and by requiring certain standards of both
intermediaries and issuing firms, investors' confidence in the market should
improve, and by offering savers a wider portfolio choice in a financial market
currently dominated by commercial banks, as well as broadening the range of
available instruments in terms of scale, maturity and risk, new opportunities
for attracting and pooling savings as well as specializing in investment will
be created. The bill should also help to improve the capital base of private
companies, through channelling a larger volume of funds to the corporate
sector, and through simplification of the procedures for capital increases in
joint stock companies. The bill may also increase the inflow of foreign
capital; foreign firms have been hindered from investing in Turkish companies
by the fact that Turkish capital has not assumed an adequate size for
partnerships. On the negative side, it is to be hoped that this regulation of
the capital market does not stifle the recent development of the private bond
market. To ensure that the law does not impose unduly burdensome restrictions
on the market; market professionals such as brokers, dealers and underwriters
should be encouraged to remain in the market for new issues and secondary
trading, and this can only be ensured through taking into account the views of
the private sector on the bill, and through adequate representation of these
securities professionals in the proposed council. The Council should also
have representatives of the most important Government bodies which affect
financial market developments. IFC has submitted preliminary comments on the
bill, and their recommendations, particularly on the operation of the stock
exchange, should be taken into consideration.
48.      The Government intends to complement the capital market bill,
encourage wider private ownership of firms, and facilitate tax collection, by
limiting the issue of bearer shares by companies; and by enacting legislation
to introduce a professional chartered accountancy system in Turkey. It also
intends to enact legislation to permit firms to make much-needed revaluations
of assets, with the initial revaluation not subject to income taxation.
49.      Monitoring.  Under the proposed loan, the Bank will continue to
monitor the adequacy of policies and legislative and administrative measures
for domestic resource mobilization, in particular with respect to tax
reforms: (a) progress in enacting a law providing for a value added tax to be



- 17 -
introduced during fiscal year 1982; and (b) progress in establishing
procedures for adequate tax collection, especially with respect to personal
and corporate income and agricultural sales tax (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04,
and Schedule 4, para. 1).
Balance of Payments Policies
(a) Export Promotion
50.      The Government's economic program gives strong emphasis to the need
to improve export performance. Since January 1980 much has already been done
in terms of export policies, as detailed in the President's Reports on the
Structural Adjustment Loan I and its Supplement and monitored by the Bank.
Access to credit and foreign exchange for exporters has been greatly
facilitated, the range of financial incentives available to exporters is
extensive, and administrative procedures have been simplified. Furthermore,
exporters have been relieved of the requirement to buy domestically-produced
inputs, and may import inputs free of customs duties. Most important of all,
the exchange rate regime has been made much more flexible, and the Turkish
lira has moved broadly in line with price differentials between Turkey and
abroad since mid-1980. The latest change, effective April 15, 1981, brought
the rate to TL 98.20 = US$l.
51.      The Government has recently introduced further improvements in
financial incentives and administrative procedures for exporters. These
include an important provision in the tax reform package whereby earnings from
exports of industrial goods, fruits, vegetables and fishery products, and
receipts from freight and tourism can now be deducted to varying degrees from
taxable income. The formula encourages continued growth in exports and
provides an incentive to smaller individual exporters to amalgamate. All
foreign exchange earnings of contractors abroad are also deductible. Access
to export credit is being improved by a new measure requiring commercial banks
to increase steadily the share of their outstanding credit extended for
industrial exports, to 15 percent by end June 1981. This implies in practice
that one-third or more of increases in total credits must be for exports.
This is enforced by the Central Bank through administrative measures.
Furthermore, in response to complaints that providing export credit in
installments was disruptive, the proportion made available in one installment
has been increased.
52.      There has also been continued improvement in the institutional and
administrative framework for exports, including the initiation of an interim
export credit insurance system under the 1981 Export Regime, which will be
implemented by May 1981. A more dynamic head of the Export Promotion Center
has been appointed.
53.      The Government intends to take further action to improve this
framework. It expects to enact during 1981 a nearly finalized bill
establishing a permanent export credit insurance agency, as well as another
already drafted to establish free trade zones. It intends to revitalize the
Export Promotion Center to make it effective, and also to encourage the



- 18 -
establishment of export promotion organizations by the private sector. Other
institutional actions such as the creation of a specialized export development
bank are also under consideration.
54.      The financial incentives for exports are now reasonably
comprehensive. However, as the Government is aware, the institutional and
administrative framework needs further improvement. Under the proposed loan,
the Bank will continue to monitor the adequacy of policies and legislative and
administrative measures for export promotion (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04 and
Schedule 4, para. 1).
55.      Exports have increased rapidly during the last four months of 1980,
after a disappointing performance over the first eight. During the last four
months, merchandise export receipts grew from $1.6 billion to $2.9 billion, an
increase of 84 percent, and during this period were 72 percent higher than
during the corresponding months of 1979. For the year as a whole, they are
estimated to have been $2,910 million, 29 percent more in value than in 1979.
Moreover, results for the early months of 1981 indicate that this trend is
continuing. The recent expansion has been broad-based in both its commodity
composition and its market destinations. Certain agricultural exports
performed particularly well over the last four months of 1980; barley exports
were unusually large, as were fruits and vegetables (especially citrus)
exports, and livestock exports increased 75 percent in value over their 1979
level. Agricultural export receipts as a whole increased by 24 percent.
Manufacturing export receipts increased by 33 percent in 1980, particularly
processed agricultural products, chemicals, garments and carpets.
56.      To some extent, the recent encouraging developments reflect specific
factors such as the usual seasonal increase in agricultural exports, the new
agricultural support prices, greater finance for crop purchases, and the
upswing in industrial production following the improved availability of liquid
fuel, electricity and raw materials, as well as the end of labor disputes
following the political changes in September 1980. More generally, however,
it is likely that they reflect an increasing effectiveness of the export
promotion policies, with the official acceptance of and adherence to a
flexible exchange rate policy, the Government's increased focus on exports and
the steady improvement in most incentives offered for exporting.
(b) Import Liberalization
57.      The import regime provides extensive protection to domestic producers
against foreign competition. There is a comprehensive system of import
licensing consisting of two Liberalized Lists, for non-competing and competing
commodities, and (until 1981) a Quota List revised annually. Only items on
these lists can be imported; in principle, all other imports are banned. The
Ministry of Commerce issues import licenses on the advice of other agencies,
and (until January 1980) the Central Bank determined the amount of foreign
exchange available for import transfers, and thus controlled nearly all
allocations of foreign exchange. Since January 1980, commercial banks have
been permitted to retain a higher proportion of foreign exchange deposited
with them, and some import transactions have thus been delegated to the
private sector, especially those of exporters.



- 19 -
58.       Imports of raw materials and spare parts which are non-competitive
with domestic production are allowed freely under Liberalized List I, but
comprised only around 7 percent of total imports in 1980, reflecting the
diverse nature of domestic industrial production. Most imports come under
Liberalized List II, and an import license is issued only if the good in
question cannot be supplied locally in comparable quantity and quality and
within a reasonable period of time. In 1980 List II imports amounted to
around 79 percent of the total, half being petroleum and its products and a
further 20 percent fertilizer. In 1980 about 14 percent of imports were
subject to quotas. Quota List Section I provided for small dollar amounts for
specific less essential items. Quota List Section II consisted of large
allocations to broad general categories, e.g., US$290 million in 1979 for
private sector investment.
59.       In January 1980, the Government took the very important step of
allowing exporters to import all needed inputs duty-free and without regard to
the import regime. This year, following a short-term study on which
understandings were reached under the Supplement loan, the Government has
continued the reform of the import regime.
60.      The main feature of the 1981 import regime, which became effective in
January, is the abolition of the Quota List. Of the 312 items on this list,
100 have been moved to Liberalized List 1. These items, which accounted for
about $50 million of imports in 1980, consist mostly of raw materials for
chemicals, spare parts and spices. The remaining 212 items, which accounted
for about $850 million of imports in 1980, have been transferred to List II.
They consist mostly of intermediate and capital goods (iron and steel
products, pulp and paper products, machinery, dyed products, rubber and glass
products, spare parts for machinery and fibres). In addition, about 200 items
accounting for around $300 million of imports in 1980 have been shifted from
List II to List I. These consist of chemical items (sodium phosphate,
fluorides, cobalt oxides, nitrile-function compounds) tin, rolling mills,
synthetic dyestuffs and pigments, spare parts for machinery and plastic raw
materials.
61.       In continuation of present policy, imports of items on List I will be
limited only by the availability of foreign exchange, and the transfers of
items to this list -- which may increase imports under it to about 15 percent
of the total -- indicate the Government's commitment to providing the inputs
needed to improve capacity utilization. A speeding up of the application and
approval process under List II is proposed. Also, a new feature is that an
excess of the domestic price of a List II item of 20 percent or more over the
tariff inclusive import price will be a discretionary trigger, leading to a
review of the merits of importing it. There is no plan to raise tariffs as an
offset to the relaxation of quantitative restrictions.
62.      To facilitate the financing of imports, the 1981 import regime
introduces two changes: First, the rates of import guarantee deposits have
been reduced substantially. Second, the proportion to be paid at the time of
application to the importer's commercial bank has been considerably reduced,
with the balance paid when the request is made to the Central Bank for the
import license.



- 20 -
63.      These changes in the import regime, particularly the abolition of the
Quota List and other relaxations of quantitative restrictions, constitute a
part of the gradual process of import liberalization, and considerably exceed
Bank expectations at the time of approval of the Supplement loan. They should
enhance the flexibility and efficiency of the import regime, as well as
simplify its administration and help reduce previous abuses whereby licenses
in excess of needs were requested and subsequently resold.
64.      To continue the process of import liberalization, the Government
intends to further improve the structure of import tariffs. It is also making
arrangements to undertake the long-term study of Turkey's protection and
incentive system, to be completed by end 1982, on which understandings were
reached under the Supplement loan. It has proposed detailed organizational
arrangements for this study and partial financing for it from the Bank's
external research budget has been approved. The study is designed to lead to
recommendations for policy reforms aimed at reducing the remaining bias
against exports, the variability of effective protection and effective subsidy
across activities, moving from continuing reliance on quantitative
restrictions to the use of tariffs and reducing effective protection
progressively where excessive. Under the proposed loan, the Bank will monitor
the adequacy of policies and legislative and administrative measures for
import liberalization (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04 and Schedule 4, para. 1).
B. SUPPLY-SIDE POLICIES
Investment
Public Investment
65.      Public investment accounted for 59 percent of total investment and 10
percent of GNP in 1980. After a rapid increase in the mid to late 1970s, its
level has declined by 4 percent per annum in real terms for the last three
years under the pressure of foreign exchange and local resource constraints.
The largest shares in 1980 went to manufacturing (28 percent), transport and
communications (20 percent) and energy (with associated mining) (28 percent),
while the share going to agriculture has been falling and was 7 percent in
1980. The public sector investment portfolio contained no less than 9,000
projects as of the end of 1980; at the rate of spending of recent years, it
would take about 11-12 years to complete all these projects even without
taking acount of new ones, and the average gestation period has risen
throughout the 1970s. The portfolio contains a large number of projects of
uncertain merit which were introduced in the mid-1970s without careful
scrutiny and in line with the development strategy and political preferences
of the time. Other projects are now either premature or oversized in view of
the prospects for slower economic growth over the next few years.
66.      In 1981, the Government has effected a first step rationalization of
the program. The total allocation for the year has been set at TL 667 billion
at 1981 prices. This is intended to be administered as a cash limit and to
provide for a 12 percent increase in public investment in real terms using the
Government's inflation forecast of 40 percent in 1981. With a more realistic



- 21 -
inflation forecast, the level is not expected to rise in real terms. The
number of projects has been cut to about 8,000, partly because of project
completions in 1980 but partly by eliminating a number of nonviable projects.
In addition, many projects retained in the program have received only nominal
allocations in 1981. About 78 percent of total spending will be for ongoing
projects, with new projects concentrated in transport and communications and
in agriculture. The energy sector retains the highest priority, so as to
remove bottlenecks, and its share has been increased slightly. Another sector
given high priority, in contrast to recent years, is agriculture, because of
its export potential; its share has been increased to 12.6 percent. The other
priority sector is communications, particularly freight transportation, to
facilitate industrial and agricultural production. Priority has been given to
export-oriented projects. Within the sectoral priorities, projects have been
grouped as follows:
(a) high priority projects which (i) can be completed within 24
months, where there is substantial sunk capital and where a high
cash flow is expected, or (ii) can be brought quickly to a more
economic basis through rehabilitation and the removal of
bottlenecks: these have been given large allocations; and
(b) profitable projects, the additional requirements of which exceed
the resources available to the public sector: The Government will
attempt to have these implemented through the equity participation
of the private sector, either jointly with the public sector or
alone.
67.     The public investment program, as well as the institutional
arrangements for investment decision-making, are being reviewed by a special
Bank mission which visited Turkey in November 1980. Since its report has not
yet been completed, the following reflect only preliminary conclusions. The
rationalization efforts of 1981 have been an important step in the right
direction, but more remains to be done. The overall size of public investment
is consistent with resource availabilities in 1981 and the general orientation
of policy. However, the foreign exchange and local currency requirements for
the program in future years could exceed those likely to be available, so that
additional cuts will be needed, even without taking account of the need to
include some new projects in these years. In addition, the average gestation
period remains excessive as resources are still spread too thinly. The
changes in the intersectoral balance of the program in 1981 appear generally
to be in the right direction, although there is a relative neglect of the
social sectors. The Government's criteria for project selection are
appropriate; the issue is rather the extent of the effort that has been made
to rationalize and trim the program, i.e. the degree of implementation of the
criteria. The review mission's preliminary findings are that a number of
projects with low priority or of uncertain merit have been retained in the
program with sizeable allocations for 1981, and a more serious re-evaluation
of these projects is needed as soon as possible.
68.     The mission's review has also highlighted several additional aspects
that have been particularly weak in Turkey's public investment
decision-making. First, market analysis, if properly carried out, might well



- 22 -
have ruled out certain large projects. Second, projects have not always been
selected on the criterion that they should be internationally competitive
within a reasonable time horizon. Third, within the list of proposed
investments, those projects with the highest economic returns should be given
preference, and only minimum investments should be made in permanent "economic
losers", that is in plants whose current operating costs exceed the
prospective world market price.
69.     The Government will discuss the report of the public investment review
mission with the Bank in June 1981, and intends to take account of the views
expressed in the preparation of the 1982 public investment program. It will
inform the Bank of the priorities for that program, especially of any changes
from those of this year.
Investment Incentives
70.     The investment incentive system in Turkey has played a significant but
not major role in the allocation of investment by the private sector which has
been influenced more by macroeconomic factors such as the industrialization
drive, the strategy of favoring import-substitution over exports, and the
desire to modernize using the la*est technology. Moreover, a bias in economic
policies has favored capital and import-intensive investment.
71.     The incentive system has for long been designed to encourage
investment in manufacturing, agriculture, mining, and less developed regions.
The instruments used have remained unchanged for more than a decade, and
consist of (a) exemption from customs and other duties on imported machinery;
(b) as an alternative to (a), spreading the duties over five years; (c) an
allowance of a percentage of equity funds invested against taxable income for
corporate income tax purposes (30 percent in general, and 50 percent for less
developed regions); (d) interest rebates; (e) accelerated depreciation; and
(f) exemption from building construction tax.
72.     Since January 1980, the important switch in both development strategy
and several major policies has changed the incentives for different kinds of
investments. The emphasis on exports rather than on import substitution has
been reflected in successive refinements of the incentives tables which had
begun already in 1979. The more flexible exchange rate policy, and the
increase in interest rates after their deregulation, have reduced the
incentive towards capital and import-intensity of investment, but there has
been no specific change with these aims in mind in the investment incentives
themselves. The following changes were made in the incentives in 1980: a
rebate of 40 percent of the base interest rate for export loans, and a 25
percent rebate of the base interest rate for less developed regions; the
exemption of medium and long-term loans for exports from all charges and fees;
and finally, the lifting of the bias against smaller enterprises by providing
the same incentives to them as to larger firms with less formal documentation.
73.     For 1981, the investment incentives have been further improved and
refined. The new corporate income tax law provides that the investment
allowance will now be based on the total funds invested, not just the equity



- 23 -
portion. Depending on the proportion of investment financed by equity, this
doubles or more than doubles the value of this incentive, which applies to all
fields of investment in the incentives tables. In addition the rate of this
investment allowance has been increased from 50 to 60 percent for investments
in less developed regions, and from 30 to 40 percent for tourism investments.
The incentive tables themselves have been revised again to give greater stress
to export-oriented projects.
74.     The system of investment incentives is likely to assume more
importance in future, given the need to increase present levels of private
investment and the increasing market-orientation of the SEEs. The current
incentives reflect some improvement in an effort to stimulate investment and
to focus it more on exports and other foreign exchange earning activities.
However, further progress is desirable. The ranking of priorities tends to
vary at present depending on the policy instrument. The customs
exemption/deferral and interest rebates tend to subsidize imports and capital,
while income tax concessions might be more neutral in their impact on factor
proportions. The fine-tuning of the system from year to year should be
changed to a system of a few clear incentives or rates applicable to each
activity in a general class. At an aggregate level, the incentives provide
important cost reductions to investors (possibly as much as half of investment
costs), yet little is known of the total fiscal cost of the system. A
Government study in 1980 suggested that its effectiveness had previously been
low: nearly half of projects with incentive certificates issued earlier had
not been implemented, hardly any of the export guarantees given had been
fulfilled, and applications for investments in less developed regions had not
increased. A thorough review of the system is clearly needed, and will be
undertaken by the proposed Bank mission on industrialization and trade
strategy in May 1981 (para. 166).
ENERGY
Background
75.     Resources.  Turkey is relatively well endowed with conventional energy
resources, except for oil most of which is imported. The most important
domestic resources are hydropower (100,000 GWh per annum), lignite (7.3
billion tons of which 4.1 billion proven) and hard coal (1.4 billion tons of
which 0.2 billion proven). Present proven resources of petroleum of 17
million tons are equivalent to little more than one year's consumption,
although this could be tripled if the enhanced recovery technology being
tested in the Bank-financed FY81 Bati Raman project is successful. Known
natural gas resources are also limited to about 8 million SCF/day. There are
large resources of bituminous shale but technical and economic factors have so
far restricted their exploitation. For nuclear energy, there is a little
uranium, and significant thorium deposits of possible long-term interest.
Turkey has significant resources of renewable energy, specifically fuel wood
and agricultural wastes which provided 18 percent of total energy consumption
in 1980; and it has potential estimated at 4,500 MW for geothermal energy and
2,000 MW for small and mini-hydro schemes.



- 24 -
76.     Consumption Patterns and Trends.  The level of energy consumption in
Turkey remains somewhat below the average for middle income countries. Total
consumption per capita rose from 583 kg (oil equivalent) in 1973 to 795 kg in
1980, an increase of 30 percent over the period, similar to the 32 percent
growth of real GDP per capita. The share of petroleum products in total
energy consumption has declined only slightly since 1973 to 49 percent in
1980, while that of lignite has increased somewhat to 16 percent; other shares
were hard coal at 8 percent, hydropower 8 percent, fuel wood 11 percent and
crop and animal waste 7 percent in 1980. As for user sectors, industry
accounted for 29 percent of total energy consumption in 1980, transport 20
percent and commerce, agriculture and domestic household consumption together
51 percent.
77.     Balance of Payments Impact.  With rising incomes, substantial
industrial growth over the last decade, and falling domestic oil production,
there was a sharp increase in the share of imported oil in total energy
consumption, from 39 percent in 1973 to 44 percent in 1980. Given the
increases in international oil prices which have also taken place, imports of
petroleum and petroleum products have risen from US$0.2 billion in 1973 to an
estimated.US$3.3 billion in 1980, when they accounted for 48 percent of
merchandise imports and were equivalent to 113 percent of exports of goods,
probably the highest figure in the world. The macroeconomic projections
discussed in Part I suggest that, even if the volume of oil imports grows only
as fast as GDP, the oil import bill could well rise to US$6.8 billion by 1985,
and still be equivalent to 86 percent of exports of goods.
78.     Issues in Energy Management.  In the energy sector, there is a need to
economize on the use of imported energy sources while simultaneously
accelerating the development of the substantial endowment of domestic
resources to sustain the renewal of economic growth. In doing so there are
several constraints to be faced. Principal among these and affecting the
supply side is organization and management in the sector. The structure of
institutions, the capability of management and the cadre of qualified
technicians are inadequate to sustain the major effort in investment and
energy supply required. This affects policy planning, project execution and
the quality of operation of the country's energy system. Major institutional
reforms appear to be a prerequisite to improved performance. Since energy
supply is overwhelmingly managed by the public sector, a general SEE reform
(see paras. 130-157) will assist matters; but there are also problems specific
to each subsector. In coal and lignite, presently managed by Turkish Coal
Enterprises (TKI), implementation capacity is weak, there is a need for
improved planning and specialization of activities between hard coal and
lignite and cost-consious management is lacking. In petroleum, managed by the
Turkish Petroleum Corporation (TPAO), the budgetary burden of financing the
oil import bill has seriously interfered with other activities (especially
exploration). In power, managed by the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK),
supply has fallen short of demand in every year since 1971, due to lagging
project implementation and maintenance, and the unavailability of foreign
exchange for spare parts.



- 25 -
79.     On the demand side, the two principal issues are conservation and
substitution away from petroleum products in favor of domestic resources,
principally lignite. The scope for general conservation is still being
explored, but is probably significant among the larger industrial users: some
major energy-intensive industries use 40-60 percent more oil per ton of output
than in Germany.  Rational pricing is a major instrument in encouraging both
conservation and substitution (see paras. 81 and 82) although substitution has
also been pursued by a virtual embargo on petroleum usage in all new major
investment projects.
Energy Policy
80.     The Government has responded to the urgent need since the beginning of
the world energy crisis for both reforms and rapid development in the sector
with a series of measures. First, since the first oil crisis of 1973/74 it
has given considerable emphasis to development of Turkey's domestic energy
resources. Second, following the further major escalation of world oil prices
in 1979, it has undertaken major changes in pricing policy and in policy on
foreign investment in oil as part of the January 1980 program, as described
below. In September 1980, the energy sector has been given top priority in
terms of both claims on investment resources and policy formulation. While
actual reforms are still at an early stage, a significant start has been
made. The principal measures are continued price adjustments, measures to
further conservation, organizational changes, proposals for hard coal
development, encouragement to oil exploration, and public investment.
Pricing
81.     The Government controls but does not subsidize most major energy
prices. For about a decade up to late 1977 prices were adjusted neither
frequently nor sufficiently; after the 1973 oil price increase, domestic
prices of petroleum products were approximately doubled in early 1974. In the
period after 1977, there were selective increases to respond to the major
distortions that had emerged between domestic prices and real costs. In
January 1980, SEEs were set free to determine most of their own prices. The
exceptions in the energy sector are bulk electricity tariffs for the
ferrochrome and aluminum industries, municipal electricity tariffs, coal and
lignite prices, and well head prices to producers for the minor portion of oil
consumed which is produced from wells on stream before 1978. Energy pricing
policy is now designed to serve the objective of overall conservation and of
switching away from imported petroleum-based fuels in favor of domestic
lignite; energy resources are with minor exceptions priced at levels which
broadly reflect their costs in international terms.
82.     The record of price increases made in the execution of this policy,
and pricing policy in each subsector, can be summarized as follows:
(a) Petroleum Products: From 1977 to 1980 several successive price
increases have been made (six in 1980 alone) on account of world
price increases, domestic inflation and exchange rate changes.
Prices were raised eight to ninefold, implying a tripling in



- 26 -
real terms. These adjustments have brought petroleum product
prices fairly close to West European levels. Policy is to pass
increases in import prices immediately and in full to domestic
consumers.
(b) Coal and Lignite: In the period since 1977 the price of hard
coal, which is used principally in the steel industry, was
raised more than twenty-fold, or more rapidly than that of any
other fuel. Lignite prices differ as between industrial, power
generation and domestic uses. Policy has been to eliminate
subsidies for industry and power generation, while reducing them
over a longer period in the case of domestic use both for income
distribution reasons and to prevent even worse overexploitation
of fuel wood resources. In the period 1977-80, lignite prices
for industrial use were increased 84 percent in real terms; for
power about 60 percent; and for domestic use about 13 percent.
Households now pay about 60 percent of the industrial price for
lignite.
(c) Electricity Tariffs: Taking an index with 1970 as 100,
wholesale prices stood at 1,789 in 1980 compared to the TEK
average tariff index of 1,794. These tariffs are subject to an
automatic fuel cost adjustment, but this has not always been
applied. Also, they contained an element of subsidy because
coal and lignite fuel prices were heavily subsidized during this
period. In addition, the tariffs charged by the municipalities
for final consumption of electricity have failed to keep pace
with inflation. The January 1980 policy change of freeing these
tariffs from government control was never implemented, partly
because of subsequent political changes. Whether the Government
will continue to control electricity tariffs is under review.
At the same time, as agreed under the Bank-financed FY80
Karakaya Hydropower Project, TEK's tariffs will be set to
provide internally an increasing portion of the funds needed for
TEK and DSI power investments; and a committee of experts is
reviewing all aspects of power subsector financing with a view
to recommending suitable fuel pricing policies and electricity
tariff levels. Even under present practice the adjustments of
bulk rate tariffs has almost kept pace with inflation.
Conservation
83.      In addition to regulating demand through energy pricing the
Government is committed to the encouragement of conservation by other means to
minimize low value uses of energy. The Ministry of Energy (MENR) commissioned
a series of studies into energy uses and conservation potential in Turkey, the
findings of which were published in January 1979, but except in the area of
residential/commercial usage, the recommended measures fall short of those
suggested as most effective by the 1980 World Energy Conference, particularly
in industry and transport. A major obstacle to the formulation of a
comprehensive, practical and specific program is the lack of detailed



- 27 -
information, particularly on consumption patterns in industry, the major
energy user. To begin to remedy this, the Government has agreed under the
FY81 Bank-financed Petroleum Exploration Project to undertake energy audits of
selected plants in major energy-using industries. In addition, a draft law
has been submitted to the Council of Ministers to establish a unit in MENR,
the Energy Survey Administration!', to coordinate conservation policy,
implementation and enforcement, supervise energy audits, be responsible for
developing alternative indigenous sources of energy such as bituminous shale,
peat, biogas, geothermal and solar energy, and have charge of researching and
alleviating energy-related pollution. The drafting of the law is intended to
be completed by March or April 1981.
Organization and Management
84.      The Government recognizes that improved management in the sector is a
prerequisite to fulfilling the country's future energy needs. Accordingly,
proposals are being drawn up for major reforms of three principal energy
agencies, TPAO (petroleum), TEK (power) and TKI (coal and lignite). Since
they have yet to be finalized their likely impact cannot be judged at this
stage. However, the intentions underlying them are clear and they generally
follow the principles of specialization in management task and autonomy in
budgeting.
85.      TPAO would be set up as five operating companies for each field of
operation (exploration and production; distribution and marketing; pipelines;
refineries and petrochemicals) with independent budgets under TPAO as holding
company. In this way, budget crises in one company (e.g. that dealing with
refining imported crude, which would have to bear the brunt of rising oil
prices) would not jeopardize the operations in other fields (e.g.
exploration), so a balanced program of energy management would be preserved.
86.      A draft law has been submitted to the Council of Ministers which will
allow for the divestiture of TKI's unprofitable small lignite mines supplying
most domestic users (often over great distances) to private operators, and may
also provide for the setting up of a separate agency to mine and distribute
hard coal on a profitable basis. This will narrow TKI's management
responsibilities and reduce the need for subsidies to it.
87.      Another draft law currently being revised will enable several
autonomous companies to be formed, to operate under TEK as a holding, to take
over the retail distribution of electricity in urban areas from the
municipalities and operate at a profit. The objectives are to improve both
efficiency (electricity losses in the major urban distribution systems are
around 13 percent, compared with a desirable level of around 5 percent) and
the use of revenues from urban electricity sales to maintain and extend the
distribution system.
1/ The core of the new unit will be the existing Electricity Survey
Administration (EIE) of MENR.



- 28 -
Exploration and Development
88.      Two further policy measures adopted recently are important for to the
development of Turkey's indigenous resources. One is the major shift of
policy in the January 1980 program encouraging of private companies -- both
Turkish and foreign -- to explore for crude oil. During 1980, several decrees
were issued containing guarantees to such companies, including in particular a
35 percent equity (free to export) share of any oil finds.  Following recent
interest by several oil companies, the final details of operating
procedures -- principally the taxation regime -- are being reviewed and
clarified.
89.      The second measure deals with the accelerated development of hard
coal production in the next few years to avoid the need for rapidly increasing
imports for the steel industry. The Mineral Research and Exploration
Institute (MTA) has recently revived an ambitious drilling program for both
coal and lignite in the main coal producing region of Zonguldak over the
period 1981-88. The MENR has given the program priority over other mineral
exploration but financial commitments for it in 1981 are small.
Public Investment
90.      The emphasis the Government has placed on the development of domestic
energy resources is clearly evident in the rising share of public investments
in this sector, from about 19 percent in 1970-73 to a little over 24 percent
in 1976-80. Following the reaffirmation of a strong development program, and
the placing of energy as the sector of highest priority, this share has been
increased further to 28 percent for 1981, or TL 190 billion. 1]
91.      The priority given to energy investments is in line with the
importance of the sector as a contributor to the structural adjustments
required in the economy. The bulk of the investment is for hydropower and
lignite in which the country has a comparative advantage. However, the
preliminary conclusions of the public investment review mission are that there
are a number of problems with the program. It may be difficult to execute
financially since local even more than foreign exchange funds are scarce. It
would require also a strengthening of management in the implementing agencies
which, while being attended to (as described above), will take time to be
effective. Another problem is that it has been based on energy demand
forecasts derived from an economic growth forecast of around 8 percent per
annum in the coming years. This is optimistic and the demand forecast should
be scaled down. A consequent scaling down of the investment program by
delaying new projects would permit the agencies to concentrate their financial
and managerial resources and advance the completion of ongoing projects.
Finally, the balance of the program needs to be improved by raising
expenditures that will increase efficiency in energy consumption; for example,
investments in power generation have grown at the expense of those in urban
distribution where there is large energy waste.
1/ These figures include investments in power and 70 percent of those in
mining, but exclude those in refining.



- 29 -
Assessment of Energy Policy
92.      Taken as a whole, the package of measures discussed above which
constitutes the Government's energy policy is difficult to fault on grounds of
principle. Given the mixed nature of the Turkish economy the Government has
assembled an appropriate balance of market instruments (cost-related price
adjustments of final energy consumption, and shifting the SEEs into cost-based
operations), institutional reform (reorganizing the energy SEEs, establishing
the conservation unit in MENR, decrees to encourage exploration, proposed
divestiture of lignite mines), resource allocation (priority in the public
investment program) and direct intervention (such as the embargo on use of
petroleum-based fuels in new public investments) to constitute an effective
means of both demand and supply management in the sector. Under the proposed
loan, the Bank will monitor the adequacy of energy policies, in particular
pricing of petroleum products at levels comparable to international market
prices (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04 and Schedule 4, para. 3).
93.      Such problems as arise with the policy are those of practicality and
relative priorities. On the side of demand management, the major instrument
is price policy. Even though the impact of cost-related price adjustments on
both conservation and substitution is not yet fully known, the policy should
be broadened to cover all energy resources. On conservation, the needs are
for further information and for the proposed coordinating unit to develop a
specific and coherent program. On the supply side, since it is not clear what
the time response of companies nor the level of their interest might be in oil
exploration and lignite mine operation, the Government should also press ahead
with urgently needed exploration on its own account, particularly in hard
coal. Higher priority should be given to the drilling programs in these
fields. The undertaking of a systematic and updated demand forecast and
energy balance analysis would be the single most important means of
rationalizing investment in the sector. This is to be a central point of
focus of the joint Government-Bank energy sector survey planned for this
summer. Finally, the energy sector is seriously deficient in both technicians
and technical management.  This needs urgent attention and a systematic
staffing policy (recruitment, training and placement) is needed as a parallel
to the plans for reorganizing of the energy agencies.
AGRICULTURE
Background
94.      Turkish development strategy since the early 1960s has leaned heavily
on industrial development with agriculture given a secondary role of
(a) expanding the food supply for a growing population, and (b) providing
exports to help finance the country's industrial effort. Its low share of
public, and also private, investment and imbalances within the sector have
undoubtedly contributed to the modest 3 percent per annum growth of
agricultural value added over the period 1962-80. The major sources of growth
have been expansion of the irrigated area and increased use of modern inputs
such as fertilizer. Helped by good weather and priority for fertilizer
imports, the sector has shown considerable resilience in the face of Turkey's
economic difficulties since 1977.



- 30 -
95.      Agriculture continues to be Turkey's largest single source of
commodity exports, although these have declined from 77 percent of total
exports in 1962-64 to 62 percent in 1977-79. They reached a record US$1.7
billion in 1980 despite poor performance in wheat exports. Their composition
has changed significantly over the last decade. Exportable surpluses of wheat
and barley have materialized, as well as dramatic increases in the export of
nuts, fruits and vegetables, and tobacco, livestock and fisheries products
have tripled in value since the early 1970s; while in contrast exports of
cotton, once the most important agricultural export commodity, have not
increased significantly since 1973.
96.      Prior to 1980, Turkish agriculture received extremely favored
treatment through a combination of input subsidies and commodity price
supports. In the name of income parity, price stabilization, and import
substitution, Turkish farmers had become well insulated by the late 1970s from
market pressures to achieve international quality and cost standards.
97.      The modest growth rate of agriculture can be attributed to
underemployment of the sector's natural, human and investment resources. The
key to removing the constraints on their improved exploitation lies in
Government policies with respect to public and private investment, recurrent
budgets and price intervention, and in the structure and performance of
Government institutions providing support services to agriculture, as
discussed below.
98.      Accelerated growth in crop production could have a rapid effect on
the country's balance of trade. Prospects for increases in production and
exportable surpluses are brightest in cereals, cotton, nuts, fruit and
vegetables and, in the livestock subsector, meat, mohair and wool. There are
also good prospects for a greater supply of oilseeds and sugar beet, which
would reduce Turkey's dependence on imports of these commodities. The
macroeconomic projections discussed in Part I assume that during 1980-85 the
annual average growth rate of agricultural value added will be close to 4
percent in real terms, and that of agricultural exports 8 percent. World
markets for the commodities in surplus to domestic requirements are expected
to be sufficient to absorb this output.
The Government's Program
99.      The Government recognizes that agricultural performance could be
substantially improved because of considerable unused potential for both
production and exports, both in the near and in the long term. Through the
January 1980 program and subsequent measures it has given greater emphasis to
the sector. Because of the past subsidization policy's net drain on public
resources and inflationary impact, and the need to increase agricultural
exports, the 1980 measures in the agricultural sector focussed on major
changes in four interrelated policy areas: input subsidization, price
supports and their financing, and export encouragement.



- 31 -
100.     The September 1980 program of the new government outlined significant
organizational initiatives. In 1981, policies involve further actions in the
areas of input subsidization, price supports and export promotion, and new
initiatives in the areas of public investment and the reorganization of
agricultural institutions.
Input Prices
101.     The very large input subsidies were reduced in 1980, with apparently
little effect on production. As a result of a five-fold fertilizer price
increase in 1980, fertilizer consumption fell by about 25 percent without
interrupting the growth of agricultural production, as sufficient quantities
were available when needed resulting in both a better distribution across
farms and more efficient utilization. At present, plant protection materials
are sold to farmers at cost; however, the retail price of most domestically
produced fertilizers is still about 50 percent of the ex-factory price. The
Government does not intend to reduce these subsidies further until the
domestic fertilizer industry has increased its output and farmers have had an
opportunity to adjust to the new prices and agricultural sales tax. However,
the subsidies will be phased out within five years, concomitant with
cost-reducing innovations in the Agricultural Supply Organization's (TZDK)
fertilizer handling and distribution network, and reduction of arrears to the
Agricultural Bank of Turkey for fertilizer procurement credits.
102.     To limit inflationary financing for the inputs program during this
transition period, flexible levies were introduced in 1980 on the export of
supported commodities. These return part of the margin between f.o.b. export
prices and farmer support prices via an export stabilization fund and
budgetary transfers to SEEs involved in the production and distribution of
fertilizers. After some initial difficulties in adjusting the levies to
fluctuating export prices were ironed out, the system worked reasonably well
in 1980 because f.o.b. prices for most major agricultural exports were above
the support prices.
103.     For irrigation schemes constructed by the State Hydraulic Works
(DSI), Government policy is to recover all operations and maintenance (O&M)
costs and investment costs, over 50 years at no interest, from beneficiaries.
In practice, the amounts recovered have been far less. O&M charges were
assessed in 1978 in line with actual expenditures, but there has been no
increase since despite rapid general inflation; besides, the proportion
actually collected has been falling, to only 35 percent in 1980. However, the
level of actual O&M work has kept the systems functioning so the issue is a
fiscal and distributional one. For 1981, the Government has decided in
principle to levy the full cost of operating and maintaining DSI irrigation
schemes, and a proposal to this effect has been submitted to the Council of
Ministers. It also intends to make a special effort to increase the rate of
timely collection of these charges.



- 32 -
Support Prices
104.     At present floor prices for 23 agricultural products are established
from time to time by the Council of Ministers to accommodate changing economic
circumstances and objectives (e.g., income support, price stabilization,
production encouragement, regional agricultural development, etc.). They
cover most major export commodities except fruits and vegetables and also
important import substitutes. In setting them, the Council of Ministers
relies mostly on often conflicting recommendations obtained from (a) the large
number of independent agencies which administer floor prices, and (b) farmer
organizations having a vested interest in high prices regardless of resource
cost or need. The independent views of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MAF) and the State Planning Organization (SPO) are sought, though
neither is staffed to do detailed analysis. As a result, it has been
difficult for the Government to coordinate production planning and supporting
services, particularly for those crops which fall under the purview of MAF,
with the price incentives. It has made the planning of production for export
equally difficult.
105.     Following the political changes in September 1980, the Government has
tried to depoliticize the program and reduce some of its inefficiencies.
SPO's recommendations are now given more weight; the only price announced thus
far under the new arrangement, that for sugar beet, was determined after a
review by SPO of competing land uses, and was announced early with the
intention of influencing farmers' planting decisions.
106.     Responsibility for financing the program has largely been vested in
the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB), which, from its own resources, has
been required to rediscount Treasury-guaranteed bonds issued by agencies
concerned. The retirement of these bonds has been slow in the past, with the
threefold effect of abetting inflation through sometimes large increases in
the money supply, constraining TCZB's liquidity, and periodically frustrating
the administration of specific supports (e.g. wheat in 1980) due to subsequent
underfinancing of the procurement agency involved. In 1980, the financing
procedures were made more flexible to relieve TCZB and speed up
disbursements. Procurement agencies can now borrow from any public sector
bank after consultation with the Central Bank. The latter in turn now
discounts the agencies' bonds and repays the public banks within days. This
procedure also allowed the Central Bank to closely monitor the creation of
credit for the program in 1980 for the first time, and to impose ceilings on
allocations for specific supports to restrain its inflationary impact.
107.     In 1981, there will be further important changes in the system of
price supports. Since these are directed mainly at export promotion, they are
discussed below in para. 111.
Exports
108.     The Government's overall export strategy may be viewed as consisting
of a short-term and a medium-term component. The first is to induce an
immediate improvement in the balance of trade through price, operating credit
and various export incentives to generate production for export from existing



- 33 -
capacity. The agricultural sector responded to these during the latter half
of 1980. The second is a medium-term strategy to improve the economy's
overall production capacity and generate a sustainable surplus for export. It
is here, because of its climatic and comparative cost advantages, that
agricultural development has been assigned a major role. However,
reorientation of existing production patterns is required to change the
commodity composition of production to favor exports.
109.     In 1980, the administration of existing export incentives was
strengthened and made more flexible. In particular, regulations governing
eligibility for the general export incentives described above and in the
President's Reports on the previous loans were relaxed to encourage use by
agricultural exporters, who are expected to comprise the largest single group
of beneficiaries. They include complete prefinancing of materials imported
and local procurement requirements, investment incentives, the foreign
exchange retentio-n scheme, and generous tax incentives that offer premia if
exports increase in subsequent years.
110.     New investment incentives for agricultural exporters were introduced
in late 1980. For fruit and vegetables, which are considered to have high
export potential, preferential interest rates on medium-term and working
capital loans will encourage investment in and operation of cold stores and
containerized cold fleets to overcome major bottlenecks in the marketing
system.
111.     The Government drive to improve agricultural trade balances in the
medium term will rest on more selective price supports and on increased
allocations of land for the production of export crops and important import
substitutes. Beginning with 1981, the Government intends to utilize price
supports as a major instrument of export promotion. Income support will be
deemphasized as a program objective and competitive price signals will be
transmitted to the agricultural sector to improve its efficiency. The number
of eligible commodities will be sharply reduced from 23 to 12-15, mainly
exported produce and important import substitutes such as sugar beet. Most
prices will be announced sufficiently in advance of the planting season to
encourage the planting of desired commodities. The procurement agencies will
be provided with adequate funds to permit timely payment to farmers via the
Central Bank rediscount mechanism described above, within the constraint of
overall resource availability.
112.     With respect to land use and measures to improve the production and
quality of particular crops, the Monopolies Administration has recently
instituted area allotments and delivery ceilings for tobacco growers and
discontinued advance payments for procurement that previously resulted in
cultivation for higher yields to the detriment of quality. This is expected
to improve the quality of tobacco production and hence its competitive
position in export markets. A fallow suppression program will be introduced
in 1981, principally in wheat growing areas, through the introduction of
lentils and other leguminous crops in rotation with wheat. This program is
intended to augment the supply of food grains and animal feeds, while
improving the fertility of the soil. A program to grow soybean, also in



- 34 -
rotation with wheat, is planned for 1981, with the intent to phase out imports
of vegetable oils and feed concentrates and reduce the allocation of land to
sunflower production (which competes with wheat).
113.     These programs will be buttressed by two less tangible but equally
important changes. In January 1980, the Government deliberately withdrew from
a stance of export regulation via licensing, minimum price requirements and
use of multiple exchange rates, to a more neutral posture -- at least insofar
as agriculture was concerned. Beginning in late 1980, this posture changed to
one of advocacy and export promotion, through deliberate efforts to reach
potential agricultural exporters and interested producers via seminars,
individual and group meetings in the Prime Ministry, and utilization of the
mass media. Considerable headway has been made with exporters of fruits and
vegetables, who are expected to form regional marketing corporations for
export in late 1981, and hazelnuts (the primary agricultural export) following
removal of a ban on private exporting. In 1981, the Government also intends
to open the export of wheat to the private sector following the failure of the
Soil Products Office (TMO) to handle the task adequately in 1980. Another
significant measure in 1981 will be the initiation of a pricing and land use
study, agreed under the Bank-financed FY80 Grain Storage Project, which has
met with intense political resistance until only very recently. This study
will create a sound statistical basis for estimating the farm income and
producer incentive effects of alternative support prices, and for modelling
the impact of support prices on the allocation of land amongst competing uses.
Public Investment
114.      Agriculture's share of public fixed investment fell from 19 percent
in 1963-65 to 8 percent in 1978-80. Historically, between 55 and 65 percent
of public investment in agriculture has been for directly productive purposes,
mainly irrigation; 25 percent for marketing, forestry and fisheries; and only
about 10 percent for indirectly productive purposes such as agricultural
research, extension and other supporting services.
115.      The 1981 public investment program shows an increase in agriculture's
share to 13 percent from 7 percent in 1980. The intrasectoral allocations
retain the traditional strong bias towards physical infrastructure:
two-thirds is for irrigation infrastructure and land improvements (including
18 percent for new project starts) and 12 percent for indirectly productive
purposes. Nevertheless, the overall increase permits some increase in outlays
for purposes other than physical infrastructure, if these activities can all
in fact be implemented.
116.      In the irrigation subsector, the pattern of investment allocations
shows only a marginal departure from past budgets. While 24 of the State
Hydraulic Works (DSI) projects in which virtually no investments had been made
are excluded from this year's program, approximately equal amounts are
allocated for projects that can be completed within 3-6 years and for others
that would not be completed until the late 1980s and beyond. The other public
institution active in irrigation works is the Land and Water Development
Directorate of the Ministry of Village Affairs and Cooperatives (TOPRAKSU).



- 35 -
About one-third of its greatly expanded 1981 investment allocation goes to
completion of on-going projects, including 41,000 ha of on-farm development
work in DSI schemes, and two-thirds for new projects. It is recognized,
however, that TOPRAKSU has neither the construction capacity nor the financial
resources to continue to provide on-farm development works free of charge and
at the same time to complete the backlog of work in DSI projects estimated at
more than 500,000 ha.. TOPRAKSU is therefore actively encouraging farmers to
explore alternative construction arrangements, e.g. for local contractors to
work under the general supervision of TOPRAKSU. The Government realizes that
this can only succeed on a large scale if farmers are also made to pay for the
cost of TOPRAKSU works. It intends as a matter of principle to introduce such
charges and is in the process of preparing a legislative proposal.
117.     Public investments in storage and marketing facilities have fallen
behind output growth, and their 3 percent share of sectoral public investments
for 1981 should be increased, considering the effect that efficient marketing
can have on production.
118.     About 9 percent of the sectoral investment budget is allocated for
the administrative and technical entities of MAF, equivalent in real terms to
the 1980 allocation. Until the reorganization of the Ministry's technical
support services (para. 121) has taken hold, this level is probably justified,
based on the low realization rates of 60 percent and 70 percent in 1978 and
1979 respectively. Thereafter their absorptive capacity will increase and
allocations for indirectly productive investments should be raised.
Reorganization of Agricultural Institutions
119.     The common factor in the basic constraints facing agricultural
development is the inability of public institutions to formulate and implement
a coordinated set of policies and programs for the sector. SPO is not
equipped to assess all sectoral programs and policies in detail at the
planning stage, much less during implementation. Neither MAF nor any of the
other ministries involved has the capability to undertake adequate sector
analysis, planning and policy and program formulation. The separation of
authority between SPO for the investment budget and the Ministry of Finance
for the current budget has led to a situation where agencies are often not
provided with adequate current budget resources to carry out their approved
investment program. The responsibility for developing and executing policies
and programs affecting the agricultural sector is diffused widely among and
within 8 ministries and more than 40 general directorates including 10 State
Economic Enterprises. Many of these agencies, in particular the SEEs, have a
large degree of freedom in their operations to which frequent shifts in
jurisdiction between ministries have contributed. Duplication of services to
farmers and lack of coordination among agencies cause gross inefficiencies in
carrying out production and marketing programs. This is compounded by
excessive centralization of authority in Ankara which inter alia prevents
effective regional coordination of field operations.
120.     The unsatisfactory state of affairs has long been recognized by
Government officials. MAF reorganization has been studied in 1964, 1976 and
(for extension) since 1978. The only major organizational change made until



- 36 -
late 1980 in the sector was the partial consolidation of agricultural research
functions with the establishment in 1975 of the General Directorate of
Agricultural Research in MAF.
121.     In late 1980, the new Government reintegrated into the Ministry of
Agriculture the forestry services, which had formed an independent ministry
since 1969. Shortly after its accession to power it also requested plans from
all ministries for streamlining their organization. To this the Ministry of
Agriculture responded with a report, completed by end-January 1981, which
formed the basis for the decisions announced in late March 1981. These
decisions aim at improving the delivery of support services to agricultural
producers, focusing on research and extension. At the center, these
activities have been integrated by incorporating the General Directorate of
Agricultural Research (with the exception of horticultural research) into the
General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs, which inter alia is responsible
for agricultural extension. A new General Directorate has been established
for horticulture, combining investment projects, research, extension and
marketing, and reflecting the importance given by the Government to the
development of fruit and vegetables. Further changes at the central level are
expected in the consolidation of the general directorates dealing with
livestock. At the provincial level, a provincial director of agriculture will
be responsible for coordination of agricultural, livestock and forestry
services. The new organization is to be introduced on a pilot basis in 3-4
provinces.
122.     In addition, the January 1981 report contains proposals for
integration into MAF of, or increasing MAF's control over, various agencies
and SEEs involved in the agricultural sector but now under the jurisdiction of
other ministries. While decisions on the internal reorganization of MAF may
be completed shortly, it is expected that those regarding interministerial
shifts in responsibility will be postponed until the effect of MAF's internal
reorganization can be observed. Implementation of the decisions reached will,
of course, take considerable time, especially at the field level, to permit
adjustments based on early experience with the new organization.
Assessment of Agricultural Policy
123.     The Government program in agriculture has followed the orientation
set forth in the January 1980 program. While the growth in agricultural GDP
has not risen above the long-term trend of 3 percent p.a., and is not expected
to do so in 1981, export performance has been very good in 1980 with a record
high of US$1.7 billion.
124.     The 1981 public investment program budget shows an improvement over
past years by an increase in the share of public investments allocated to
agriculture. The intrasectoral allocations continue the traditional heavy
emphasis on irrigation infrastructure although there is some evidence of
depoliticization in removing a number of slow-gestating and low-yielding
projects. The first steps have been taken to consolidate, reorganize and
reform the institutions involved in the agricultural sector, through
integration of research and extension at the center and a new pilot integrated



- 37 -
organization for agricultural services in the provinces. Improvements have
been achieved in price policies. Subsidies on fertilizers were drastically
reduced in January 1980, and some were further reduced in September 1980
basically to establish parity among the various fertilizer prices. There has
been a focus on the support price system with a view towards its
rationalization. Greater attention is being paid to price parity among crops
competing for the same land, the principle of announcing support prices before
planting time is being introduced and, in general, SPO's views feature more
prominently in the decision making process which has been substantially
depoliticized since September 1980. The measures designed to improve the
sector's export performance have been successful and will be further relied on
to maximize exports from the existing production capacity. During 1980, the
various general export incentives were opened up to agricultural exporters and
specific measures were adopted to overcome bottlenecks in the export of fruit
and vegetables and tobacco. The system of flexible export levies, introduced
in 1980, caused some early difficulties by discouraging exports when levies
were not adjusted quickly enough to changing export prices. Improvements have
now been introduced into the mechanism which have led to quicker responses to
such situations. In addition, the Government has initiated programs to
reorient the structure of agricultural production to capitalize on export
opportunities in the medium term.
125.     The main policy areas requiring priority attention now are public
investment, credit for private investment, extension, research, and sector
planning and coordination. The 1981 public investment allocations appear to
run contrary to the Government's stated de-emphasis of longer gestation
projects. A more balanced program should retain a large share of outlays for
directly productive purposes, but be highly selective as to large irrigation
projects. However, since technical and institutional innovations will be
required increasingly to permit future expansion, these investments should be
balanced by a considerable increase in outlays for indirectly productive
purposes including comprehensive agricultural extension services, agricultural
research, storage and marketing, although this shift has to be postponed until
the efficiency and absorptive capacity of the farmer support services of MAF
and the SEEs in agriculture has improved.
126.     Private investment in agriculture has fallen off in recent years; its
coordination with public investment remains piecemeal and ineffective. Policy
instruments already exist which could foster its rapid expansion: potentially
the most powerful one is the medium and long-term credit of TCZB, which with
its branch network is the only institution capable of reaching farmers in
large numbers. TCZB's investment lending has been severely restrained by the
term structure of its deposits, its statutory responsibility (limited in 1981)
to finance price support agencies, and the Government's requirement that it
finance a portion of the fertilizer subsidies. As a result, investment loans
accounted for only 21 percent of its programmed disbursements to the sector in
1980, and production credits only another 23 percent. To increase private
agricultural investment, it will be necessary both to augment TCZB's
"discretionary" resources and to markedly improve the coordination of its
lending with public investment and the delivery of supporting services.



- 38 -
127.     Consolidation, improvement in the capacity and performance, and
reorientation of agricultural extension services, initially those now under
MAF, is an urgent prerequisite to accelerate agricultural development, with a
pooling of resources, devolution of authority over investment and recurrent
budgets and work programs to the provincial director of extension, separation
of administrative and regulatory functions from direct farmer extension and
training, adequate staff incentives, training programs, and techniques of
systematic management. The recent decision to introduce, on a pilot basis, in
a few provinces a reorganization of the technical services of MAF by
coordinating agricultural, livestock and forestry services under a provincial
director of agriculture should be seen as a step in this direction.
128.     Phased consolidation and restructuring of agricultural research
activities would make an indispensable contribution in the medium term. There
is a clear need to establish research priorities in accordance with sectoral
development objectives and to respond to farmers' requirements; forge a
functional link with the extension service, and achieve greater efficiency in
the use of manpower, facilities and funds while improving staff incentives.
129.     To overcome the fundamental shortcomings of the present institutional
arrangements, a single appropriMtely staffed entity should be given the
principal responsibility for agricultural sector analysis, planning and
overall policy formulation -- the General Directorate for Planning, Research
and Coordination in MAF could possibly take on this role in future under the
general guidance and supervision of the SPO; each ministry or agency should
monitor closely the implementation of its policies and program and keep MAF
informed; and of budget proposals coordination among SPO, Ministry of Finance
and technical agencies should be improved.
C. STATE ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES
Background
130.     The State Economic Enterprises were established starting 50 years ago
to spur development in the absence of, and as a powerful means of creating, an
indigenous class of Turkish entrepreneurs, as well as of achieving a desired
structure of the economy. They play a particularly important role in the
economy, especially in manufacturing as well as in traditional infrastructure
sectors. Their investment has constituted about 25 percent of total fixed
investment in the last few years. Their operational losses have increased,
from TL 4 billion in 1975 to TL 61 billion in 1980 (1.5 percent of GDP), and
constitute the major factor behind the deterioration in the fiscal accounts.
131.     The poor performance of SEEs can be attributed to three sets of
causes: (a) the conflicting objectives and constraints imposed by Turkey's
development strategy, (b) the macro-institutional inefficiencies of the
system, and (c) the micro-economic inefficiency of individual SEEs.
132.     They have been expected to contribute to the growth of output; to
supply goods at stable prices; to provide employment opportunities; and to be
efficient and enhance productivity. It is clear that there are certain
inherent conflicts among these objectives, particularly as public enterprises



- 39 -
are more susceptible to political pressures and constraints than the private
sector. Besides, they have been frequently involved in capital intensive,
large investments with long gestation periods and a long process of learning
by doing before production near full capacity can be attained, resulting in
large financial losses for long periods of time. The high levels of
protection that are granted and near monopoly in the domestic market provide
little incentive for improving efficiency.
133.     The macro-institutional deficiencies relate to both the organization
of the SEEs and the relations between SEEs and other parts of the Government.
The SEEs are subject to a wide variety of interference and control from
different sources, not only on policy questions but also on day-to-day
operations. The SPO, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the
local governments, the various Ministries dealing with economic issues, the
political parties and the Parliament have all affected SEE decisions. In
particular, "overstaffing" problems in the SEEs are traditionally traced to
political pressures. Many important decisions have usually been made outside
the enterprise. The frequent changes of government in the 1970s have often
been accompanied by changes in management. The lack of continuity in top
management, and of experienced middle level administrative and technical
personnel also because of inadequate salaries, has had a deleterious effect on
performance.
134.     SEEs are also often hampered by inefficient management, poor
industrial relations, and technical problems in design and operation,
resulting in low productivity of labor and capital and wasteful use of raw
materials and intermediate goods.
The Government Program
135.     General reforms have been discussed and bills considered in
Parliament over more than a decade, but little action has occurred other than
occasional and belated price increases. Reforms have been agreed in the
context of Bank-financed projects of SEEs, but implementation has been uneven.
136.     Government policy since January 1980 has attached particular emphasis
to the reform of SEEs, and actions already taken show the seriousness of this
commitment. The major step in 1980 was the granting of pricing autonomy to
most SEEs (para. 140). In addition the SEEs have been subjected increasingly
to market forces and their position has been brought closer to that of private
sector firms. Pricing freedom has brought them face-to-face with the
possibility of limited consumer demand, and in some cases competition from the
domestic private sector, at the prices they wish to charge. The realistic
exchange rate has made them aware of the real cost of importing. The
progressive reform of the protection system is beginning to expose them to
increasing competition from abroad.
137.     The Government has now committed itself to a comprehensive reform of
the SEEs, with a view to achieving several important objectives, and according
to a number of generally agreed principles as follows;



- 40 -
(a)  SEE objectives should be mainly financial and economic,
including in particular specific efforts to increase
productivity at the plant level;
(b)  Depoliticization of Government-SEE relations, management
selection and behavior;
(c)  Sector organization changes, if required for greater efficiency;
(d)  Reduction or elimination of the drain on public funds;
(e)  Increasing subjection to market forces;
(f)  Improvement of management;
- selection on merit,
- continuity in office subject only to satisfactory performance,
- pay which is competitive and performance-related;
(g)  Reduction of overstaffing;
(h)  Delegation of authority from Ministers and Boards to managers
and operating units;
(i)  Improvement of the quality of investments; and
(j)  Labor force;
- sufficiently competitive pay for technical staff,
- elimination of negative inter-union competition.
138.      In furtherance of these objectives, important actions were taken in
late 1980 on SEE financing and employment (paras. 145 and 150). The report of
an official committee was submitted in December to the Council of Ministers,
which after an initial review has appointed a sub-committee of Ministers to
prepare final recommendations. The Government's future reform work will move
on two parallel tracks. First, the Council of Ministers decided in principle
in February 1981 on a series of urgent and achievable reforms of the
objectives, management and other aspects of SEE performance which are intended
to be implemented by the end of September 1981 (paras. 150-154). Second,
recommendations are being prepared for longer-term changes in the structure of
the SEE system, where the Government intends to implement significant reforms
by the end of 1981 (para. 155).
139.      In addition, the SEEs have been encouraged to propose solutions to
their individual problems which can be arrived at within the existing system
and organization. These will include specific suggestions for balancing and
modernization investments at the plant level, and recourse to technical
advisory services as necessary, with a view to achieving both the general
objectives referred to in paragraph 137 above and specified financial and
productivity targets for individual units.



- 41 -
Pricing and Financial Performance
140.             In January 1980, the Government made a major change in economic
policy by freeing SEEs to set their own prices according to market conditions,
with the financial objective of covering their operating costs. Price
controls leading to a few SEEs continuing to incur so-called "duty losses"
were retained for social reasons on coal and lignite prices, electricity for
energy-intensive industries, fertilizers, and railroad and maritime cargo
tariffs. Municipal electricity tariffs and the wellhead price of "old" oil
(to producers but not consumers) have also been controlled.
141.             Financial discipline in the SEEs has improved in some respects in
1980, and the policies followed have achieved some success in limiting the
drain on SEEs on public funds, as shown by the Table below.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF OPERATIONAL SEEs (SUMMARY)
1975         1979         1980         1981
Estimate      Program
A.  PROVIT AND LOSb ACCOUNT (TI. bni.)
1.  Expenditure                               109         545         1366         2135
Wages and Salaries                   28          143          240          300
Purchases or Goods and
Services                           75          380         1102         1798
2.  sales revenue                              93         431         1207         1981
3.  Duty losses /a                             -1          -75         -93           -95
4.  Gross Protit (+)/Loss (-)
Including duty losses                -4          -71          -61          -38
Excluding duty losses                -3           .4          +32          +57
B.  INVESThENT AND FINANCING (TL Bni.)
1.  Fixed investment                           26          128          224         316
2. Own resource generation
(profits excluding duty losses
+ depreciationi - taxes)                0           16          43            72
3.  External financing:                        27         215           357         455
buogeLary transiera                  11           83          148          249
state Investment Banik                            15           17           25
Foreign Borrowing                                 62           35           38
Central Bank                          6           54           52           40
Change in net a/c payable
G- Cange in neL a/c receivable    3                1          105          103
C.  PExFOtIMANCE INDICATORS
Unit
1. lEproving
Duty losses/sales revenue          percent        17             8            5
Profit (excluding duty
losses)/sales revenue           percent          1            3            3
Own contribution/
f ixed investment               percent         12           19           23
Cerntral bank financing            TL bn          54           52           40
Aggregate debt/equity ratio                     82/18        67/33        54/46
Employm_nt                         '000          550       c. 550       c. 520
2.  -eterioratit  g
Budgetary transfers (for
duty losses and
Investments)                    TL bn           83          148          249
Change in net a/c payable -
Change in net a/c
receivable                      IL bn            1          105          103
btock oi arrears                   TL bn         205            Increasing
bource: bPO ana Mlinistry ot Finance.
/a bee definition in para. 140.



- 42 -
142.     As a result of a large number of major price increases, sales
revenues of the SEEs rose from TL 431 billion in 1979 to TL 1,207 billion in
1980, an increase of 180 percent or a virtual doubling in real terms. Even so
they again recorded a small operating loss. Owing to higher than anticipated
inflation, "duty losses" caused by the remaining price controls exceeded
expectations (TL 93 versus TL 51 billion), although they declined
substantially as a percentage of total sales revenue; the degree of
subsidization of items with controlled prices also decreased. Operating
profits of the other SEEs were considerably smaller than forecast (TL 32
versus TL 90 billion) partly because some planned price increases were not
fully implemented.  More generally, the management of some SEEs, accustomed
over many years to working to instructions from government, were
understandably slow to adjust to the new environment and exercise managerial
autonomy. In these circumstances, and with borrowing from the Central Bank
limited within the context of the IMF Standby, the financing of the SEEs'
investment program proved extremely difficult. Even with an increase in
transfers from the Treasury, a very large increase occurred in arrears to
contractors.
143.     The Government has reaffirmed the policy of SEE pricing autonomy for
1981, with the refinement that it now urges SEEs to make individually smaller
and more timely price adjustments than in 1980. However, the National
Security Council currently has under review a set of price increases intended
for early 1981. The Government also intends to encourage manufacturing SEEs
to adopt pricing formulae which more closely reflect unit costs with efficient
operation at higher levels of capacity utilization, and which also take
account of both the domestic market situation and the need to increase
international competitiveness. It recognizes that in order to strengthen
their overall financial position, SEEs will need to go beyond covering
operating costs to achieve a progressively increasing rate of return on assets.
144.     Many of the problems of individual SEEs require not just more
efficient use of capacity, but also new investment as part of their solution.
The quality of the SEEs' investment programs has been improved somewhat
through the rationalization of the public investment program effected in 1981
(paras. 66 and 67). To help SEEs prepare future projects, the Government has
allocated $10 million equivalent in the 1981 budget for them to hire
consultants. In addition, SEEs will be instructed, as part of the February
1981 decisions, to review their financial position and other resources and
inform the Government how many investment projects they can implement properly
at the same time. If their current program exceeds this number, the State
Planning Organization and the Government will decide in light of the SEE's
recommendation which ones are to proceed.
145.     The Government has already made major changes in the methods of
financing the SEEs and increased the cost and reduced the availability of the
soft funds to which SEEs enjoyed easy access in the past. The 1981 Program
decree for SEEs issued in November 1980 cuts off all SEEs from their previous
direct access to the Central Bank, except for two export-oriented agricultural
purchasing ones; the interest rate the latter pay was raised in July 1980 from
1 percent to a still very low 10 percent per annum. Other SEEs must seek
short-term funding from commercial banks on the same terms as private firms,



- 43 -
which has increased their cost of working capital from 10 percent to 36
percent. Foreign exchange loans contracted by the Government will be made
available to operational SEEs only through the State Investment Bank (DYB).
This fiscal year, loans for investment will be made to SEEs from the budget
only through DYB, if the SEE is profitable; DYB increased its interest rate
from 14 percent to 21.5 percent in 1980, and in 1981 is expected to adopt
market-related interest rates as already done by private commercial and
development banks. Loss-making SEEs will continue to receive loans directly
from the budget, which will avoid compromising DYB's financial standing, but
from 1981 this will occur only after scrutiny of the project by DYB, and DYB
will supervise implementation. This will help improve SEEs' financial
discipline on investment account, although DYB's capacities may well be
strained by these new responsibilities: to the TL 25 billion it plans to lend
from its own sources will be added TL 40 billion in budget funds to channel.
146.     To permit SEEs to borrow commercially on an increasing scale in
future, the Government is studying how to strengthen their capital structure.
Paid-up capital of the operational SEEs increased from TL 92 billion in 1979
to TL 300 billion in 1980, and is programmed to reach TL 460-470 billion in
1981. The aggregate debt/equity ratio of these SEEs has improved from 82/18
in 1979 to 67/33 in 1980, and is programmed to improve further to 54/46 in
1981 by the infusion of around T1 115 billion (over US$l billion) through
either new equity or conversion of debt to the Treasury.
147.     Despite these important policy changes, little fundamental
improvement can be expected in the SEEs' accounts in 1981. Official estimates
look for an increase of 64 percent in sales revenues, mainly from new price
increases, and a reduction in the operating deficit from TL 61 to TL 38
billion, mirroring the expected once-for-all relief to the wage bill from the
tax reform. Duty losses are forecast to remain substantially unchanged at
TL 95 billion (implying a further reduction in the rate of subsidy), while the
operating profit of the other SEEs is projected to approximately double.
Following a paring of plans, SEE investment is expected to fall by 4 percent
in volume terms in 1981. Even so, the financing picture remains
discouraging. While borrowing from the Central Bank has been strictly limited
to two agricultural SEEs and will thus fall in amount, budgetary transfers are
again expected to grow apace, although the growth is intended mainly to
compensate SEEs for prior duty losses. A further large buildup in the net
accounts payable-accounts receivable balance is seen as inevitable.
148.     The financial rehabilitation of the SEEs will require more
fundamental changes than pricing autonomy alone, although it remains
imperative that prices be adjusted promptly and fully. However, raising
prices may merely serve to cover operating inefficiencies. As an aid to
management, the Government intends to require SEEs to introduce modern
accounting and management information and control systems.
149.     The IMF remains worried by the financial position of the SEEs, and in
its discussions is strongly emphasizing the necessity of (a) adequate and
timely price adjustments (some planned price increases have not been fully
implemented); (b) more concerted efforts to control expenditures; and
(c) stricter and ongoing monitoring of developments in SEEs' accounts against
stipulated policy intentions.



- 44 -
The 1981 Reforms
150.      The problem of overstaffing in the SEEs is at the root of many other
problems. It can only be solved over several years, through attrition and
through the creation of new productive job opportunities in the economy. The
Government has taken the strongest steps possible within this constraint to
deal with the problem in 1981. The 1981 Program decree for the SEEs froze the
number and structure of positions for existing operations in each SEE at their
level as of November 30, 1980. New factories opened by a SEE must first draw
on existing staff of that SEE, and in any case new hiring may not exceed 50
percent of the normal complement for the plant. SEEs may not apply to the
Ministry of Finance for new positions as in previous years, while vacant posts
can only be filled with the permission of the Ministry. Indeed, in 10 SEEs
accounting for 44 percent of total SEE employment in 1980, 50 percent of the
positions becoming vacant through resignations, retirements or deaths are
automatically being cancelled. These steps are expected to cut total
employment in operational SEEs by 5-6 percent in 1981. Finally, early
retirement has also been encouraged by a decree setting attractive rates of
severance pay. Since some 40 percent of the present labor force of SEEs is
eligible for retirement in the next five years, consistent implementation of
the policy begun this year could lead to a significant reduction in
overstaffing in the medium term.
151.     The Government will draw up a list of simple, realistic and
monitorable objectives for SEEs and instruct the SEEs to work towards them.
The High Control Board will be instructed to institute an interim system of
monitoring of the economic, financial and efficiency performance of all SEEs
starting in 1981. This will be based initially on unit costs and capacity
utilization and later will include additional criteria decided by the
Government in light of the High Control Board's recommendations. SEEs will be
instructed to survey their current unit costs to provide a base line.
152.      The Government will enhance the autonomy of SEEs as much as possible,
without changing existing laws now, by explicitly transferring authority to
them. The Boards of SEEs will be instructed to focus on policy-naking, and to
delegate authority and responsibility for day-to-day running of the SEEs to
their managers and operating units to the extent permitted by existing law;
proposals will be approved for legal changes as required to fully achieve this
objective. Managers will be informed in writing that they, not the
Government, are responsible for the SEEs.
153.     SEE managers' pay is uncompetitive.  General managers can presently
earn up to TL 55,000 per month (equivalent to about US$7,000 per annum) before
tax. This compares with a normal ceiling of TL 70,000 before tax for contract
employees in the public service. On a net-of-tax basis, SEE managers' pay may
be no more than one-fifth that of their private sector counterparts. The tax
reform package has somewhat alleviated the situation, since it provides a
larger percentage increase in net-of-tax pay for the public sector than for
the private sector, which enjoys untaxed fringe benefits. Nevertheless, the
State Personnel Department is currently studying managers' compensation, and
the Government envisages initially a substantial increase in salary
supplements for a limited number of key posts, mostly in SEEs.



- 45 -
154.     A major development is that SEE managers' pay will no longer be
subject to the provisions of the State Personnel Law; instead they will be
offered contracts, initially for one year given present legal limitations, but
with informal assurances of renewal given satisfactory performance; proposals
will be approved for legal changes to permit multi-year contracts. The change
to contractual status will lead to a large increase in managers' net-of-tax
pay which, taken together with the impact of the tax reforms, will bring it to
significantly more competitive levels. As for technical staff, SEEs are also
being requested to inform the Government of their needs for additional
contractual personnel.
155.     Reform of the whole structure of the SEE system will require a new
operating environment, encompassing the reorganization of the relations of the
SEEs with the government as a whole, the Ministers administratively
responsible, the State Planning Organization and DYB; their ultimate degree of
autonomy especially with respect to investment, credit, wages and employment
policies; and permanent new systems of audit and inspection to ensure their
accountability to the nation. Since the vital problem of the
selection/dismissal process for SEE managers is intimately bound up with these
general questions, it will only be settled in the same timeframe.
Evaluation
156.     It will take a number of years of unrelenting effort to solve the
problems of the SEEs, which are deep-rooted in nature. While the Government
expects most of the new system to be in place by the end of 1981, it is aware
that the full benefits of such fundamental reforms in terms of increased SEE
efficiency will only be reaped progressively over several years.
Nevertheless, its new determination and decisions promise action by September
1981 in a number of important areas; objectives, performance monitoring,
autonomy, delegation of responsibility within SEEs, pay and conditions of
service of SEE managers, and investment programs. Significant reforms in the
organization of the SEE sector, the relationship of SEEs to Government, and
the related process of management selection/dismissal should take place by the
end of 1981. These are all important steps in the right direction. Their
determined implementation will be vital if the SEE sector is ever to be
modernized and play its important potential role in the mixed economy.
157.     Under the proposed loan, the Bank will monitor the adequacy of
progress in SEE reforms, in particular; (a) by September 30, 1981,
(i) implementation of the reforms decided in principle in February 1981 by the
Council of Ministers, and (ii) approval by the Council of Ministers of
proposals for legal changes permitting greater delegation of authority within
SEEs and multi-year contracts for their managers; and (b) adhering to the 1981
Program decree for the SEEs as regards numbers of authorized positions and new
hiring. Progress will be reviewed inter alia by examining the implementation
in selected SEEs of the measures under (a) (i) and (b) above (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04 and Schedule 4, para. 2).
EVALUATION OF THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM
158.     The economic philosophy underlying the January 1980 program marks a
decisive break with the previous long period of Turkish economic development.



- 46 -
It involves an acceptance of the need to change the ranking of objectives in
the short run, to emphasize stabilization of the economy initially so that
growth can be resumed on a viable basis. It accepts the need to change
Turkey's development strategy to an outward-orientation emphasizing the
development of exports and other foreign exchange earning activities instead
of the heavy import substitution bias of the past. It introduces the
principle of using the market mechanism and incentives wherever possible to
guide economic activity, rather than the quantitative controls and physical
planning of much of the last two decades. These changes are generally
appropriate to the present stage of Turkey's development and its current
difficult economic situation.
159.     Since January 1980 the Government has put in place the major part of
the macroeconomic policy framework required. The abolition of price controls
on the private sector and all but a few SEE products and services has
permitted the elimination of many previous distortions and parallel markets.
The more flexible exchange rate policy has both improved competitiveness and
made importers more aware of the real cost of importing. The deregulation of
interest rates and their subsequent rise is improving the accumulation of
private savings in financial form, reducing the subsidization of capital and
imposing greater selectivity in investments. The partial reform of the
protection and incentive system has removed some of the previous bias by
improving the position of exporters and is beginning to expose domestic
producers to limited competition from abroad. Stabilization is being pursued
through a tight monetary policy, an attempt to restrain Government
expenditures, SEE price adjustments and an important tax reform.
160.     Action on the supply side of the economy has also started but has
progressed less far. There has been some rationalization of the public
investment program, under the pressure of short-term resource constraints and
according to appropriate criteria. Investment and tax incentives have been
improved for exporting and other foreign exchange earning activities and for
less developed regions. In the energy sector, prices for most products -- and
especially for petroleum products -- have been brought into line with world
prices or other indices of real costs to the economy. Investment in energy
has been accorded the highest priority among sectors in the public investment
program. Initial steps to conserve energy have been or are being introduced.
Institutional reforms in all the major sector institutions are being
prepared. In the agricultural sector, policies to promote exports, which have
a large potential in both the short and medium runs, have been successful.
Improvements have been achieved in price policies, reducing input
subsidization and rationalizing price supports. Agriculture is being accorded
much higher priority in public investments than previously. Decisions are
pending on the reorganization of the services of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry to increase their effectiveness.
161.     Action to reform the SEEs is also underway.  Pricing autonomy has
provided a powerful instrument to transform the SEEs' financial situation.
Their forcible cutting-off from access to Central Bank credit and increasing
subjection to market forces will require them to be more efficient. The
recent freezing of their authorized staffing and new hiring will begin to



- 47 -
reduce their large overstaffing problem. The new decisions in principle to
focus SEEs on financial and economic objectives, monitor their performance,
increase their autonomy from Government and internal decision-making freedom,
and improve their managers' pay and conditions of service are all important
moves in the right direction.
FUTURE POLICY DIRECTIONS
162.     Success in achieving macroeconomic objectives will require further
major efforts to improve the public finances, particularly the financial
position of SEEs, and increase public savings which have dropped to very low
levels. As part of this effort, the tax reform needs to be implemented
through improved administrative machinery and completed by the introduction of
a value added tax and by the indexation of tax brackets and specific taxes.
Private savings need to be fostered through the development of the capital
markets that is now getting underway. This will also improve the sources of
long-term domestic currency financing for industry. The protection and
incentives system also exerts a powerful influence on resource allocation, and
should be reformed in light of the study now starting, to reduce the remaining
bias against exports, reduce the variability of effective protection and
effective subsidy across activities, move from reliance on quantitative
restriction to the use of tariffs, and reduce effective protection
progressively where excessive. Finally the objective of improving the rate of
employment generation needs to be given more weight and public policies and
programs adopted or adjusted accordingly. Externally, the achievement of the
projected rapid increases in exports under prevailing international conditions
will require constant vigilance in maintaining competitiveness and a concerted
effort by Government and private sector alike. Turkey also needs to devote
more attention to restoring its ability to borrow increasing amounts from
commercial sources on favorable terms over the next few years.
163.     On the supply side, major efforts appear to be necessary to reduce
further the present portfolio of public investment projects, to bring the
future financial requirements of the program into line with available foreign
exchange and local currency resources, and to remove remaining low-priority
projects which are not viable. To help stimulate investment and better direct
it, the investment incentives need reviewing and revising. In the energy
sector, Turkey needs to integrate existing and new initiatives into a
comprehensive energy policy. An updated demand forecast and energy balance
are needed for planning. Cost-related price adjustments should be extended to
all energy resources. A wider ranging conservation program backed by
incentives and resources needs to be drawn up. The reforms of sector
institutions need to be pushed through and their technical staffing and
project implementation capabilities radically improved. Exploration for
additional domestic energy resources needs to be accorded higher priority in
resource allocation. Finally, investment and managerial resources need to be
concentrated on fewer projects. In the agricultural sector, public investment
needs to be concentrated on short gestation projects and balanced by
increasing outlays for supporting services. To revive private investment,
TCZB's resources should be augmented and its lending coordinated with public
investment and the delivery of services. Extension and research activities



- 48 -
need to be consolidated and coordinated and made more effective and responsive
to needs.  Agricultural planning and policy formulation should be centralized
and sector coordination improved.  Finally, a major effort needs to be made to
tackle the problems of the industrial sector on a comprehensive basis. While
many other policies (notably macroeconomic policies and reform of the SEEs)
bear on industry, what is needed is first to deal with the short-term
financing crisis and inability or reluctance of many private firms to invest,
and then to restructure existing industries and promote new ones to achieve an
industrial structure more in line with Turkey's long-run comparative advantage
and able to produce the projected rapid increases in manufactured exports.
This will require focused industrial planning, the reform of certain
incentives, policies, institutions and Government services, and financial and
technical assistance.
164.     Determined implementation of the SEE reforms already introduced or
decided in principle will be crucial to their success. Management selection
procedures need to be evolved to assure competence and continuity. Pricing
autonomy needs to be constantly safequarded and needed price adjustments
promptly introduced. To bring about further improvements in the financial
position of SEEs, limits should be placed on budgetary transfers to them, and
arrangements should be made to solve the problem of their accumulated arrears
to the private sector. Decisions are required on how public sector borrowing
from the domestic capital market will be organized and SEE investments
financed with an increasing role for DYB and diminishing dependence on the
budget.  These investments should be scrutinized by SEEs with the same care as
is taken by private firms. Finally, legal changes will be required to adjust
the relationship between Government and the SEEs to make the latter more
autonomous while retaining accountability to the nation.
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
165.     Bank Group activities are aimed at supporting the economic policies
initiated in January 1980, especially: (a) de-regulation of the economy to
promote efficiency in production and resource allocation; (b) the pursuit of
an export oriented development strategy with emphasis on employment creation;
(c) domestic economic policies aimed at establishing macroeconomic balance,
increasing domestic savings, restraining public investment and reorienting it
to reflect the new Government priorities (completion of priority ongoing
projects, emphasis on quick-yielding new investments, and balance of payments
impact); (d) policies to increase the contribution of agriculture, industry
and energy to economic restructuring and the resumption of viable growth; and
(e) institutional reform of key sectors and especially in the SEEs.
166.     The close macroeconomic and sector dialogue established with the
Government in recent years is expected to be pursued on key issues. The
economic and sector work underway or planned over the next several months
includes special studies of the public investment program, of
industrialization and foreign trade strategy, and of the energy sector, and
completion of a sector memorandum on industry. In addition, the progress of
the Government's economic program will be monitored in the context of each
future structural adjustment loan.



- 49 -
167.     A large lending program for Turkey was begun following the
introduction of its 1970 stabilization program. Despite the slowdown caused
by the 1977-78 crisis, the Bank/IDA have lent $2,815 million through 65
projects to date. Agriculture accounts for 22 percent of funds lent, industry
and DFCs for 36 percent, energy for 19 percent, program and structural
adjustment loans for 15 percent, and urban development, transportation,
education and tourism for the rest (8 percent). IFC has invested in synthetic
yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum, iron and steel products, motor bicycle
engines, piston rings and cylinder liners, and tourism. It has also invested
in the Turkish Industrial Development Bank (Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi --
TSKB). As of March 31, 1981, gross IFC commitments totalled about $212
million, of which $88 million were still held by IFC. New investment
opportunities are being pursued. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1981, with notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
168.     The implementation of private sector projects has been satisfactory.
Political instability, limited coordination amongst ministries, staffing
problems and the external and domestic financial crisis since 1977 have
seriously affected project implementation in the public sector. A system of
joint project reviews between Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June
1975. This has resulted in distinct, but modest, improvements. As of June
1980, disbursements increased to 70 percent of appraisal estimates against 51
percent in June 1975. The broad reform of the public sector launched in
January 1980, and pursued with new measures since, allows cautious optimism
that performance can be gradually improved further, provided it is not eroded
by new factors, including shortages of resources.
169.     A series of structural adjustment loans is envisaged, at the
Government's request, to support its program of economic reform. Agriculture,
industry and energy will be the key sectors for project lending. In
agriculture, projects emphasize exports, livestock, and rural development; in
industry (including DFCs), the emphasis is on promotion of exports and
employment, and the gradual strengthening of the SEEs. Energy projects
underway are in power generation, based on domestic hydropower and lignite
resources, and the oil/gas sub-sector; future projects will emphasize the
latter as well as coal/lignite development. Projects for urban development
and public utilities may supplement these efforts. The Bank has discussed
with the Government how its project lending can best contribute to medium-term
objectives, and help remove past policy and institutional constraints.
170.     A supplement to the first Structural Adjustment Loan, the Bati Raman
Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration and Petroleum Exploration Projects,
a Labor Intensive Industry Project, and a second Fruit and Vegetables Project
have been approved by the Executive Directors so far this fiscal year. The
other loans being presented this year are for fertilizer industry
rationalization and energy saving and state industrial enterprise finance.
Projects being processed for later consideration include: promotion of export
oriented industries, sewerage development in Istanbul, rural development, seed
production, and paper and cement modernization.



- 50 -
171.     Given the projected inflows of concessional funds to Turkey included
in the macroeconomic projections, and the presently planned Bank lending
program, Bank disbursements would account for 21 percent of the total of Bank
and concessional flows combined by 1985. The Bank Group's share of Turkey's
estimated total external debt disbursed and outstanding (including short-term
obligations) was 9 percent in 1980, and is expected to grow to 10 percent in
1981 and 11 percent by 1985. Its share of service payments is projected to
remain at its 1980 level of 10 percent through 1985.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
Introduction
172.     As discussed in Parts I and II, the Government embarked on a bold
policy in January 1980 to bring about a fundamental reorientation of the
Turkish economy over the medium term. Recognizing the gravity of Turkey's
economic problems and the policies pursued over recent years which gave rise
the them, it must be expected that it will take some time before the effects
of these changes become clearly manifest and conditions which would permit
sustainable growth are restored. Meanwhile, the Government's program
continues to deserve, and require, substantial support in terms of external
funds, without which it is unlikely to be successful. The Structural
Adjustment Loan I for $200 million approved in March 1980, and its Supplement
for $75 million approved in November 1980, represent the Bank's support to
date for these efforts. The proposed loan of $300 million provides additional
support, based on satisfactory performance so far, an important set of new
measures, and the current assessment of requirements.
Performance Under the Structural Adjustment Loan (Supplement)
173.     Administrative Aspects;  The Structural Adjustment Loan I was fully
disbursed in March 1981, twelve months after its approval. The Government has
also fully committed the Supplement loan, with private firms receiving
allocations exceeding the target of $25 million. Disbursements reached $37
million as of April 15, 1981, and are expected to be completed early in FY
1982. The counterpart funds are being channelled by Government decision to
five of the highest priority energy projects, including the Bank-financed
Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power project (Loan 1023-TU) and Karakaya Hydropower
project (Loan 1844-TU).
174.     Economic Management;  The progress made in implementing the policy
reforms since the January 1980 program has been satisfactory. Progress under
the Structural Adjustment Loan I was discussed in Part III of the President's
Report on the Supplement loan. Under the latter, progress is to be evaluated
in four major areas; exports, domestic resource mobilization, public
investment and external debt management. The specific actions to be taken are
described in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement for the Supplement loan; the
targets and the progress to date have been discussed in Part II of this report
and are summarized in the following Table and evaluated in para. 175.



- 51 -
PERFORMANCE UNDER STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I (SUPPLEMENT)
Agreed Areas of Review                                                                        Assessment of Performance
a    x. txports
Adequacy a' export peomotion policses and                     External competitiveness has bene  reasonably well maintained.  Financial incentives to exporters
odmson-trats-e oseasores, including:                          hane been improved through ollowancen against corporate income ten included in the new tan
refor. pacxage (see below).
i      -) ferrying out of a stony tor tne purpose of          (a)  The first phase of the study was completed ahead of schedole.  It has already been
introcwco-g a more rational protection                        implemested through changes cn tne 1981 Import Regime which considerably e-ceede- Bank
and incenti-e system based os tariffs for                     espectatioss.  Formal quotas have  -e,e abolished, and a large somber of items hone seen
industry, the first phase ot such study to                    moved to import lists with wore liberal procedores.  Arrangements for the implementot-oo
be completed by Jiu.ary 31, 1981.                             of the long-term study are underway in Turkey, and partial financing for it from the BSnk's
eacersal research budgert hba b-e appr-ed.
Ii)  Establishment by March 31, 1981 ot an                    (b)  Ac interim arrangement for export credit insurance will be implemented in May.  Passage
export creidt risk Issurance scheme.                          of a law establishing a permanent scheme is expected later this year.
h    Ihplenp .entat-oo ot institutional arrangements to    (o)  A law to permit the establishment of free trade zones has been drafted.  A 0-re dynsmic
promote inctoer development ot exp-rts, on basns              person has been appointed to head the Esport Promotion Center.
on review under bAL I.
2. PuOlic Investment
Ace,-ocy ol oces-re- to harmnzon  poblic
in-esimn,ts, isciediog  nosea or bEEs is 1980
000 191, witiz
(i)  a-ailcooe eesources; and                                (i)  The public investment review mission in November 1980 f .od that the level of purlic
investment authorised in the 1981 Annual Program is consistent with correct policy
directions.
--c)  investment p-noesty criteria                            (1t) The fovernmest has effected some rationalizatios of the program in 1981 is line with
appropriate criteria, reducing the ncmber of projects by elim-noting none unviable ones.
Uoweser, preliminary findings are that further efforts are required.
J.  Domestic Nenoucc  Moailcoatiom
Adequacy os meaeurss to socrease domestic resorre             Prospects have Improved cosonderably with:
mnloblclatios, Incloufing:
10)  the enactment of legislation on a comprehensive tax reform  package; und
ubjecci-  ni ninmceg avll public
sector detc-t fi.nu.eic n,  1980 and 1981.              (b)  a sobhtaotnal rise in interest rates on tine deposits.
In 1980, the consolidated budget deficit remained high at 5 percent of GNP, owing largely to
iagging tam revenues. Despite large increases in sales revenue as a result of the policy of SEE
pricing autonomy and the price adnjotme-ts made, the SEEs as a group recorded a small operat-eg
loss. Budgetary transfers to them to finance investments increased considerably, but even so
their arrears t0 contractors grew very sharply. However, some indicators of SEE financial
performance showed am improvement. In 1981, the prospects of greatly increased tru revenues (by
at least 3 percent of GNP) will improve the sitwatcon. However, budget prospects remain
difficult, since expenditure forecasts may be exceeded by a considerable margin.  bEs are ug-ce
expected to record a small operating loon despite further large price increases.   Budgetary
transfers to them are expected to show another sharp increase, but eves so another large
increase in arrears is expected.
4. nier-ual Debt
ootLl..uatom oat soons external debt management               External debt management policy remains sound.  Arrangements have been concluded for
p01icy.                                                       consolidating long-stamding arrears on nguaranteed trade credits.  Banks holding a majority oL
Turkey's conmercial debt have agreed is principle to extend the repayment schedule applying tn
the i3 billion rescheduling package agreed in August 1979, subject to the agreement of the other
creditor bangs.
ioxputenzastnor. oi extern.al debt data.                      A coordinator and comnpter programmer have bees appointed and statements oc usae  requirements
are being prepared. The project is about 3 months behind schedule; the delay is not serioss.



- 52 -
175.     Progress during the short period since the Supplement loan was made
remains generally impressive. The Government has maintained external
competitiveness reasonably well. It has further improved financial incentives
to exporters, and set in motion selected improvements in the institutional
arrangements for export promotion. The changes made to the import regime in
1981 (including the abolition of quotas) considerably exceeded Bank
expectations. Arrangements for the implementation and financing of the
long-term protection and incentives study are underway or have been made. The
preliminary findings of the public investment review mission in November 1980
are that the level of public investment authorized for 1981 is consistent with
current policy directions, but that implementing the entire program may pose
financial difficulties in future years. The Government has effected some
rationalization of the program in line with appropriate criteria, but further
efforts will be required to balance intrasectoral allocations and eliminate
more lower-priority projects. Domestic resource mobilization prospects have
improved considerably with the enactment of legislation on a comprehensive tax
reform package and there has been a substantial rise in interest rates.
However, the public finance prospects for 1981 remain difficult, since
expenditure forecasts appear to be under-estimates. Indicators of trends in
SEE financial performance show a mixed picture and considerable difficulties
remain. External debt management policy remains sound. Arrangements have
been concluded for regularizing arrears on unguaranteed trade credits. Also,
banks holding a majority of Turkey's commercial debt have agreed in principle
to extend the repayment schedule applying to the $3 billion rescheduling
package agreed in August 1979. The project for the computerization of
external debt data has been staffed and has begun, but is lagging somewhat
behind schedule; the delay is not serious. On balance, the Government's
program of policy reforms, which constitutes the basis for the Bank's
structural adjustment lending, is being implemented satisfactorily.
Macroeconomic Considerations Underlying the Proposed Loan
176.     Turkey continues to suffer from an acute shortage of foreign
exchange. Its balance of payments position, based on the Government's
provisional estimate of the outcome in 1980 and projections for 1981 and 1982,
is summarized in the Table below;



- 53 -
FOREIGN EXCHANGE REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES OF FINANCE (1980-82)
($ millions)
1980        1981         1982
(Est.)     (Proj.)      (Proj.)
Foreign Exchange Requirements                       8,699     10,402       11,979
Imports of goods and NFS                            7,690      8,696 /1    9,889 /1
Of which:  Oil                                    (3,295)    (3,819)      (4,442)
Interest /2                                           898      1,242        1,557
Amortization /2                                       111        464          636
Others                                                 -            -        -103
Foreign Exchange Receipts                           5,801      6,732        7,883
Exports of goods and NFS                            3,701      4,332        5,183
Of which:  Goods                                  (2,910)    (3,419)      (4,123)
Workers' remittances                                2,100      2,400        2,700
Requirements - Receipts                             2,898      3,670        4,096
1.  Identified Capital                              3,583      1,830        1,952
a.   Foreign Private Capital                      175        200          220
b.   Disbursements from M&LT Commitments
as of end-1980;                           1,908       1,265 /3    1,385 /3
C.   IMF                                         502         365          347
d.   Other                                       998        - /4         - /4
2.  Gap to be filled by multilateral, bilateral
and commercial sources                             -       1,958 /1/3  2,328 /1/3
Use of Reserves (- = increase)                       -392       -118         -184
Errors and Omissions                                 -293          -           -
Memo,.
Debt Relief (net)
Interest                                    295          84         -72
Amortization                                814         533          608
/1  Level of imports contingent on adequacy of capital inflows.
/2  After taking account of debt rescheduling agreed in 1978, 1979 and 1980.
/3  The figure in Annex I, page 9 assumes $900 million in 1981 disbursements from
1981 commitments; here these are included in the gap. The analogous figure
assumed for 1982 is $1,200 million.
/4  Included in gap.



- 54 -
177.     The projections presented here update those made in the President's
Report on the Supplement loan. As mentioned above, the 1980 figures are based
on the Government's provisional estimates. The final figure for imports of
goods in 1980 may be higher than this estimate; however, this would not
substantially affect the projections. For 1981 and 1982, the current account
deficit (after debt relief) is estimated to be $3.2 and $3.7 billion
respectively. The foreign exchange requirements in these years, including
reasonable oil imports, a minimal increase in non-oil imports and the rising
debt service burden, are estimated at $10.4 billion and $12.0 billion
respectively. Against that, foreign exchange receipts (exports and workers'
remittances) in 1981 and 1982 are likely to be $6.7 billion and $7.9 billion
respectively. Only half of the inflows required to fill the financing gap in
1981 are presently in sight, leaving a financing gap of $2 billion in
disbursement terms. For 1982, unidentified foreign exchange requirements are
projected at about $2.3 billion, also in disbursement terms. The proposed
loan would thus provide only a small portion of these needs.
178.     Should disbursements from new credits not materialize at the level
necessary or in time to cover the gap in 1981 and 1982, this would inevitably
be reflected in a lower level of imports and a failure to achieve a
much-needed improvement in the current low levels of capacity utilization and
output growth. It is therefore essential that adequate new funds be made
available in time, and on reasonable terms.
Case for the Loan
179.     The letter from the Deputy Prime Minister, signed on February 20,
1981 in Washington at the end of discussions following the appraisal mission,
clearly sets out the directions of the Government's new policy package. The
measures taken since the Supplement loan was approved in November 1980, or to
be taken during the remainder of 1981, address the key policy areas. The most
important elements of the package are the major tax reform, the new decisions
on SEE reforms, the further liberalization of imports, and some
rationalization of the public investment program. Other noteworthy areas
include further export promotion measures, capital market developments, and a
variety of policy and institutional changes in the agricultural and energy
sectors. The package as a whole is a reflection of the continuing momentum of
the economic reform efforts begun by Turkey last year. Along with the
continuing stabilization effort being supported and monitored by the IMF, it
deserves continuing support on an extensive scale from the international
community, and specifically from the Bank.
Loan History
180.     The Government's request for the proposed loan and the impending
commencement of discussions were notified to the Executive Directors at the
presentation of the Supplement loan in November 1980. The proposed loan was
appraised in February 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington in April
with a delegation headed by Mr. Altinok, Chief Financial and Economic
Counselor of the Embassy.



- 55 -
Cooperation with the IMF
181.     There has been an extensive exchange of information between the Bank
and the IMF during the period of preparation of the proposed loan. Bank and
IMF staff members have participated in the missions of the other institution,
in this case the pre-appraisal and appraisal mission for the proposed loan,
and this cooperation is expected to continue. The macroeconomic policy
actions and the reform of the SEEs supported by the loan are of particular
interest to the IMF. The Fund is particularly concerned about the financial
position of the SEEs and continues to emphasize the necessity for adequate and
timely price adjustments by these enterprises, as well as more concerted
efforts to control expenditures. Both the Bank and the Fund will also be
concerned with the implementation of the tax reform, so as to ensure
realization of the expected revenue yields.
Loan Amount and Allocation
182.     The proposed loan of $300 million will finance only about 2 percent
of Turkey's total merchandise imports over the period of its disbursement.
There will be no displacement of alternative financing on acceptable terms
available to Turkey, either generally or for the eligible commodities.
183.     The commodities to be financed are the same major groups as under the
previous loans. The chosen items will have high direct impact on the
utilization of capacity in user sectors. The proposed allocations are based
on a reappraisal of current needs in the context of the experience since 1978
and the progressive increase in the degree of import liberalization. They
reflect the Government's proposal that the loan proceeds be allocated to the
two main categories supported by the previous loans; (a) inputs for the
agricultural sector, under the proposed loan specifically raw materials and
intermediate inputs for fertilizer ($200 million); and (b) raw materials and
intermediate inputs for industry ($100 million). Petroleum and petroleum
products would not be eligible (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 1). The
fertilizer allocation in particular takes into account projections of
consumption, domestic production, stocks, the import pipeline and also other
possible external financing for the substantial import requirements of these
items. It will provide about 55 percent of the industry's requirements during
the disbursement period of the proposed loan.
Loan Administration Arrangements
184.     The arrangements made for the Structural Adjustment Loan I and its
Supplement will be retained, since they remain appropriate and are working
satisfactorily. The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank will bear the
main responsibility for administering the proposed loan. Import licensing
will reflect the partial liberalization of the system described in
paras. 57-62. To ensure rapid disbursements, the Government has agreed that
it will arrange for the relevant agencies to promptly issue import licenses,
make available the needed foreign exchange, and facilitate timely imports
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).



- 56 -
185.     To speed procurement, 40-day bridge financing arranged with two
foreign commercial banks, to cover the period between payments and
reimbursement from the proposed loan, will be renewed. To simplify
disbursement procedures, the previous minimum amounts of invoices of $5,000
and withdrawal applications of $25,000 have been retained (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, para. 2(a)(iv) and Section 2.09(b)). Disbursements have proceeded
smoothly under both the Structural Adjustment I and Supplement loans.
Counterpart Funds
186.     Counterpart funds will be deposited in a special account with the
Central Bank; the Government will use them to help finance expenditures
included in its development programs (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01), as under
the previous loans. While the Bank has not sought to influence the Government
in its allocation of these funds, the latter has informally indicated that it
expects to continue to allocate the funds to a small number of its most
important energy development projects, including the Bank-financed Elbistan
and Karakaya projects.
Procurement
187.     Imports will be made directly by actual users.  Bulk imports costing
$10 million or more will be procured through limited international tendering
on the basis of at least three responsive quotations from suppliers in member
countries of the Bank and Switzerland or from Taiwan, since there is only a
limited number of suppliers of the items expected to be purchased. Certain
commonly traded commodities may be purchased through price quotations
available from their organized international commodity markets, which is
acceptable. All contracts of lesser value will be awarded through normal
trade channels on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the public
and private sector firms concerned. The procurement procedures of public
sector firms already provide for substantial international bidding or shopping
and are satisfactory. Firms in Turkey have adequate choice of international
suppliers to ensure reasonable availability and price. More than half of the
loan is expected to be procured under limited international tendering. These
procedures should permit rapid disbursements.
188.     The loan will be disbursed only against foreign expenditures.
Retroactive financing will be permitted of up to $30 million worth of
expenditures made after April 1, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para.
2(a)(ii)), since the previous loan is fully committed and the Government
wishes to make new commitments for eligible commodities for which it will have
to make downpayments and progress payments in the near future.
Monitoring
189.     Disbursement of the $100 million second tranche of the proposed loan
will take place after a satisfactory review of progress in implementing the
Government's structural adjustment program (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
para. 2(b)). The yardstick for evaluating progress will be the key policy
actions in the areas of tax reforms, the reforms of the State Economic



- 57 -
Enterprises and energy pricing mentioned in paras. 49, 92, and 157 (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 4). Provided the review indicates satisfactory progress,
the proposed loan is expected to be completely disbursed within about twelve
months of effectiveness. The closing date for disbursements will be
November 30, 1982 (Loan Agreement, Section 2.04).
Risks
190.     The principal risks attached to this loan are that political
developments in Turkey might impede the Government's determination or efforts,
to carry out its new economic policy objectives and the structural and
institutional changes in key areas initiated under the January 1980 program of
structural adjustments. The commitment of the military regime and new
civilian Cabinet to continue implementing that program, and indeed its record
in enacting those parts of it hitherto blocked by deadlock in Parliament, as
well as many new measures, offers assurance that Turkey will pursue the
crucial changes discussed in Parts I and II and maintain the momentum of
structural adjustment. The administrative arrangements in respect of import
licensing, foreign exchange allocations, transfers, documentation and
disbursements made for the previous Structural Adjustment Loans are
functioning satisfactorily, and will be maintained. Procurement procedures
have been simplified but remain in line with Bank policy. Existing adequate
bridge financing will be renewed.  With these provisions, the risks of delays
in disbursements have been reduced considerably.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
191.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Features of special interest are described in paras. 49, 54, 64,
92, 157, 186, 188 and 189 and listed in Section III of Annex III of this
Report.
192.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
193.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 20, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 58 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 9
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN 1980 AND SHORT-TERM PROSPECTS
Economic Developments in 1980
1.       The year 1980 proved another difficult one for the Turkish economy.
For the third year in succession, economic activity stagnated; capacity
utilization in industry fell to around 50 percent; unemployment and income
distribution worsened significantly; inflation reached an unprecedented rate
of more than 100 percent; and the budgetary and balance of payments situation
deteriorated. Adverse circumstances contributed to these developments,
including the severity of the economic crisis which began in 1977, a chronic
shortage of foreign exchange, and considerable social disturbance and labor
unrest. The January 1980 program exacerbated these pressures. Uncertainty
about future policies and about the timing and pace of economic recovery,
together with restrictive monetary and fiscal policies and drastic curbs on
imports, affected industrial production and investment activity. Devaluation
and the removal of price controls on both private business and SEEs, while
necessary to alleviate allocative distortions in the economy, contributed to a
large initial upsurge in inflation. The financial rehabilitation of the SEEs
was only begun with the January measures, and will require more fundamental
changes than price liberalization alone. This initial adverse impact of the
program was to be expected, since it was designed primarily to combat
inflation through demand restraint by tight monetary policies and absorbing
the excess liquidity in the economy by rising prices. The Government expects
that, as inflationary expectations dim, economic activity will recover by
virtue of its own dynamism and aided by appropriate monetary and fiscal
policies, and that this recovery will mark the beginning of a gradual
structural change towards a healthier, more market-oriented economy. There
are signs that this change is taking place; inflation has decelerated sharply,
industrial production is rising, and both exports and workers' remittances
have improved in recent months. However, the social costs of the program in
terms of employment and income distribution, remain.
2.       According to provisional estimates, GDP grew by around 1 percent in
1980. Agricultural net output is estimated to have grown by around 3 percent,
due to generally good harvests and efficient use of inputs. Industry
stagnated during 1980. Production declined substantially during the first
half of the year, due to shortages of essential imported inputs and widespread
labor disputes (work days lost due to labor troubles from January to September
were 20 percent more than in the preceding eight years combined). The new
regime ended the strikes, and production recovered in the second half of the
year, especially during the final quarter, as the supply situation also eased
due to the inflow of external assistance. Fixed investment declined both in
volume and as a percentage of GNP for the third year in succession. Public
investment declined by around 5 percent, the most feasible way of limiting
deficit financing in the short run given a failure to curtail current



- 59 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 9
expenditures. Private investment also declined, reflecting the low rate of
capacity utilization, the high cost of finance, and the generally unfavorable
political and economic climate prior to September.
3.       The annual average rate of inflation, as measured by the wholesale
price index, was 108 percent, compared to 65 percent in 1979, with the cost of
living index rising only slightly less. The index reflected the huge
increases in previously administered prices and the large devaluation in
January and February, rising by 29 percent in February; this was somewhat
misleading since several products with administered prices could already only
be purchased at much higher prices in the black market. Despite further
administered price increases and upward pressure on prices (particularly food
prices) because of the Iran-Iraq war, the year-on-year price rise was reduced
from a peak of 133 percent in February to 95 percent by December, with the
average monthly rate from May to December 1980 reduced to around 3 percent, as
the inflow of foreign credit considerably improved the supply situation of
industrial inputs.
4.       The fiscal situation remained difficult.  There was a 32 percent
increase in Government expenditures over the budgeted amount, in line with
inflation. Despite the substantial overstaffing of the public sector, 300,000
new civil servants were hired during January-September 1980. Largely as a
result, Government investment had to be cut back to limit deficit financing.
Tax revenue growth lagged significantly behind inflation, and substantial
arrears in tax collection have accumulated. SEE operations showed an
operating loss again. To finance their investments and debt repayments,
budgetary transfers to SEEs rose again to TL 148 billion. As a result, the
budget deficit was TL 186 billion (5 percent of GDP) in spite of a further
accumulation of Government arrears vis-a-vis the private sector.
5.       The balance of payments position remained tight in 1980.  Over the
first eight months, merchandise exports stagnated. However, with the normal
seasonal rise in agricultural exports, the end of various labor disputes in
industry, a rising trend in production, and export promotion policies
beginning to take effect, exports rose increasingly rapidly from September to
reach a total of $2.9 billion for the year, compared to $2.3 billion in 1979.
Agricultural exports rose by 24 percent and manufactured exports by 33
percent. The value of merchandise imports was also considerably higher than
in 1979--$6.9 billion (including $3.3 billion for oil) as against $5.1
billion, although the volume increase was only 1 percent due to increases in
import prices, especially for oil. As a result, fairly severe import
rationing continues. Workers' remittances increased strongly from June under
the impact of the new exchange rate and interest rate policies to reach $2.1
billion, compared to $1.7 billion in 1979. Interest payments were reduced by
debt rescheduling. Even so, the current account deficit increased from
$1.7-1.8 billion in 1978 and 1979 to $2.8 billion in 1980.



- 60 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 9
6.       Capital inflows were also higher than in 1979, with gross public M&LT
disbursements about $1.1 billion. In meetings under OECD auspices in March
and April, $1.16 billion of bilateral aid was pledged for 1980, with much more
rapid disbursements than in 1979. The Bank supported these efforts through a
$200 million Structural Adjustment Loan in March 1980 and its $75 million
Supplement in November. Saudi Arabia provided a $250 million cash loan in
September. In July 1980, again under OECD auspices, about $2.5 billion in
service payments to OECD countries on public and publicly-guaranteed debts
falling due prior to June 1983 were rescheduled, 90 percent of them over 8 to
10 years, including 4 to 5 years of grace. Arrears on unguaranteed trade
credits were consolidated in a separate operation. With these developments,
Turkey secured debt relief estimated at $1.1 billion in 1980 and another $0.6
billion in 1981, with smaller amounts thereafter. In January 1981, leading
commercial banks agreed in principle to extend the terms of the August 1979
rescheduling agreement. The Government continues to try to reduce to the
extent possible the current and prospective large net outflow of funds to the
commercial banks. Debt rescheduling operations since 1978 have greatly
reduced the short-term debt burden and the debt service ratio. The July 1980
OECD rescheduling permitted a further drop in the ratio from 14 percent in
1979 to only 12 percent in 1980 (of exports of goods and non-factor services
and workers' remittances).
Short-Term Prospects
7.       The Government has enacted a further series of important policy
measures at the end of 1980 and in early 1981. These include a comprehensive
tax reform package which has eluded successive governments for at least a
decade, further export incentives, a significant liberalization of the import
regime including the abolition of formal quotas, improved investment
incentives, some rationalization of the public investment program, and reforms
of SEE financing and employment policies. While many of these reforms are
aimed at medium-term improvements in the economic situation, some of them --
notably the tax reform package -- will begin to bear fruit in 1981.
8.       The outlook for 1981 is slightly more promising, although the balance
of payments position is likely to remain extremely difficult. The growth rate
of real GDP is projected to be about 3 percent, a welcome development after
several years of economic stagnation. Value added in agriculture and industry
should both grow by about 3 percent. Consumption growth is to be held to just
under 3 percent, while fixed investment is to grow by 3 percent. As in 1980,
the Government is giving high priority to reducing inflation; the target is to
reduce the rate to 40 percent in 1981, but this assumes a continuation of
trends between May and December 1980 when the average monthly rate was around
3 percent and that adequate foreign assistance will be forthcoming to ensure a
continued easing in supply, and ignores possible pressure on prices from the
sizeable monetary expansion in the third quarter of 1980.



- 61 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 9
9.        The Government's projections for the public finances are optimistic
regarding expenditure estimates. The consolidated budget for 1981 foresees a
52 percent increase in total expenditures to TL 1,560 billion, and is based on
the underlying assumption of a 40 percent inflation. The 50 percent increase
forecast for current expenditures assumes that basic salaries for civil
servants will not be increased, with compensation coming from the relief
afforded this group by the tax reforms. In marked contrast to previous years,
Government investment is to increase by no less than 83 percent to TL 308
billion, the intended real increase being 30 percent. Transfers are projected
to increase by 38 percent, but with those to SEEs growing by 68 percent to
reach TL 249 billion. Total revenue is expected to increase by 86 percent to
TL 1,502 billion. Tax revenues are projected to increase by 88 percent, with
the new tax reform package expected to yield TL 240 billion in 1981. The
budget deficit of TL 60 billion is to be financed by bond sales. As for SEEs,
they are expected as a group to have a small operating loss once again. SEE
fixed investments are to increase by 41 percent to TL 317 billion i.e. no real
increase is intended. Despite the large increase in budgetary transfers, SEE
arrears are expected to show another large increase.
10.      The external position is expected to remain tight.  Exports should
grow by 17 percent to $3.4 billion, and imports by 13 percent to $7.8 billion,
in nominal terms. The volume increase in imports is likely to be small due to
increases in import prices, especially for oil, and hence import rationing
will have to continue. With a modest rise in service receipts and continuing
improvements in workers' remittances, the current account deficit in 1981 is
expected to be $3.2 billion, or some $400 million more than in 1980. Turkey
has already begun to make preparations to meet its very large financing needs
in 1981, and hopes to secure considerably higher capital inflows than in 1980,
particularly gross public M&LT disbursements other than the Bank and IMF
financing arranged or being processed. The financing required in 1981 but so
far unidentified is estimated at $2 billion in disbursement terms. To help
fill the gap, the Government intends to seek commitments of about $1.5 billion
in further quick-disbursing special aid from OECD members at a pledging
session in May 1981.



- 62 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 9
TABLE 3A
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                           REFERENCE GROUPS (UEIGHTED AVEAGE5
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           780.6                               MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRIC'LTLRAL    553.8              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b             EUROPE               COLUNTRTES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                300.0      550.0   1330.0                  2749.5                  9499.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    245.0      479.0    798.0                  1641.4                  7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    27.5       35.3    44.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29. 7     38.4    45.6                     53.9                    76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    65.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     100.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      35.0        45.0     55.0                   77.2                   142.8
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    51.0        64.0     78.0                  129.5                   523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        41.3        41.7     39.1                   30.6                    23.5
15-64 YRS.                        55.2       54.0      56.4                   61.1                    65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.5        4.3       4.5                    8.2                    11.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.8        2.5       2.5                    1.6                     0.7
URBAN                             5.l/c       5.1      4.8                    3.3                     1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.0       38.0      32.0                   22.8                    13.8
CRUDE DEAIH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    17.0        12.0     10.0                    8.9                     9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.9        2.6       2.1                    1.5                     0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        65.6     66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)  5.3         8.2     38.0
FOOD AND N'TRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         96.0       100.0    110.0                  113.1                   110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 110.0       110.0    115.0                  125.3                   131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         81.0       80.0      82.0                   91.0                    98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      24.0        26.0     24.0                   39.6                    62. 1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    24.0        16.0     10.0                    4.3                     0.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   51.0        57.0     61.0                   67.8                    73.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         187.0/c    153.Od   118.0                   55.9                    13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        52.0     75.0
URBAN                              ..       51.0      70.0
RURAL                              ..        53.0     80.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..      19.5
RURAL                              ..         ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         3000.0/e   2250.0   1772.0                  1030.1                   624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       ..      1880.0   1403.0                   929.4                   218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           590.0/e    490.0    506.0                   289.7                    121.2
URBAN                           190. o/e    200.0
RLRAL                              ..      5890.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        20.0     20.0                   17.0                    17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.7         5.9
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCM
TOTAL                              ..         2.2
URBANI                            2.0         1.9
RURAL                              ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            29.0        40.0      57.0
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                             2.0        18.0



- 63 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                      Page  6  of  9
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV EACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb              EUROPE                COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 75.0       109.0      98.0                   105.9                    100.1
MALE                 90.0       124.0    106.0                    109.3                    102.2
FEMALE               58. 0       94.0      90.0                   103.0                    102.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                14.0        28.0      43.0                    64.0                     87.1
MALE                 20.0        39.0      59.0                    71.1                     84.4
FEMALE                S.0        16.0      27.0                   56.9                      84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  18.0        14.0      15.0                    28.8                     19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           46.0        38.0      34.0                    29.4                     21.3
SECONDARY                         19.0        28.0      27.0                    26.1                     16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       38.0        55. 5/f   60.0                      ..                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         4.0      11.5                    84.6                    339.?
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        49.0        89.0     103.0                  192.2                     932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         1. 8     43.0                   118.5                    35'.
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 51.0         *                               93.0                    327.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1. 1        6. 7       ..                     5. 7                     3. 3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13782.1     15829.6   18858.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  40.2        37.2      36.0                    30.4                     36.'
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             78.5        67.7      60.0                    37.0                      7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.5        12.1      14.0                   29.3                      38.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               50.1        44.3      42.8                    40.9 S. 8
MALE                                58.7        54.9      53.2                    55.9                     ha.'
FEtMALE                             41.2        33.4      32.1                   26.2                      31. 1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9         1.0       1.0                     1.0                     IE8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   33. OI/     32. 8/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.0/g      60.6/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2.g       2.         ..fh
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10. 6_/      9.4/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     342.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     270.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (0S$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..          ..     220.0                  385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each Indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1955-60; /d 1967; Ie 1962; /f Six years and over; /g 1963, /h 1968.
Most recent estimate of CNP per capita is for 1979, all other data atre as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 64 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 9
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Soto-;kltho-ah tIe hal  art drow   foo  -c..c.. general.yjdg`d the mos   cotot"iv  an  rothn  it oo-ld als  be noted sta't they may not he halter
natccalt  ooarc bc ecane f te  ac  o  aadardiced defnitionsand conet  needby' dfferent.. coeies it collecting the data.  The data  t,    e
thelesa, aefle cc d-acobe ord-r  fi nognionde.odicce ctreedo, and characo-iec cet                   nj-r diffe-ece   between         . c tneie..
The red....cIce  gope ate (I) oh,oec tygro   f etc anti at cenooy and (Of aceantrby ge-p aishinom-ht high.ee aterage,  .ec.  t.han the canatr,ygrp
ofsh  soh eI lcor   ecesfr(pclSrlnOlfpreo   groop where "Middle Income North AfrIc  cd Middle Eant" in cheashess.e.tene
nooo-nltocialinltea  .in she nefottne goon  data the, teerees aen Ppoplti-n weighted Aiitmoic m-n  foe oath tedient-e and show   nly sloe  as
boo.t half of the --ocine             cogr-p baa dcea f-r that iodicatce.  Since ohe a-eoeage oftconsent  amoe  the indinatora dependo on the a-ilability of
data aod in  o  noit r,   -o-o i eeoc. be ca-ni-ed it rlelting            aa  of one tedicatar in coaster.-  Thesevra taar  only  -sefol in  o-pe-ieg sheoc
of on  indi--o c  a1 tlt amog the nen..try end tenen-e gt-ap..
10.50 A     -A(hocd  nq.dkoj-                                                                 fepolati.n pet Phooce   -iplalslOla  by onebe  on practicing phy-
Toto  - Tooloutfce   ca  oapiotog laod arca and iolaod ocean.-                         oIbe    nifn    rtandclsho  at nteritF  lee.
Agle     s,o i- olcc   of agoo-1tnr..  area rand tnoo--oily or pennanetly           Paoolaeaen pet iNralog Serene -PFpolatin  ditided by nebte  of pea-niota
coo  rops  praroco  conoc ad Iitzh-n gode-  or s  lie felIce.; 1977 dana.          male and female grednate  --ee, practIca  onesad a...aannone-
IS  50 lAlIl 11 -S  hP.'a rapl- an-icacta  at ca-ont nartet prices, cc-                          ara,fdrtD    ile   ysennneis    ahra  be-pte-  beds
coated he nen  -o--oslo  .ohod an Wo-id tank Atlas. (1977-79 baste); 1960,                      -nlbhl.e in pbhito ned peteste gensl end apeialfed beep it"f 'Ane
09770, nod  1SP9d-c.                                                                           hbhilit.tien  centers.  naspita1Is ar Petblihbmens  pesa teeny staffed
by an leaseteo  phyniniac.  Esstbliabete presiding p,,neipally natndie1
101R10 liSSlefTIb   P It CAPITA. - ho,nnl  -onnptit- of coeertail enny (coal                    teas ne  net  arloded.  knee  bopitels, bes-ess  inl'de health and medina
and IJgnIte, reord     -, onoa   gs ad hydro-, cu-lc-  and gtarlae-                            cnters ens permnetly ata fled by a physicias (bet byl aImdital es.ienos,
intrity)  - it llogra     of ooal Icotoalen  pec capita; 1960, 1970, and 1978                  mane, midwife, sit.) ebieb affte  tm-patient enne-detie- and preside 
data,                                                                                          limited rsge of _adire1 lathhiti e.  Foe  tctistinsl peatp-e  aban heslef-
talb  ist1ode WHO. prisnipeI genenal and  penisieed heepitale, end enr
POPII.ATION AND VITAL1 STATIS=AS                                                                 haspital  laceS or,  -ea  hespitls and medical sad .etenity cnt-n
Petl  oocatno.tE-leon70,     hcn  - no of Jnly 1; 1960, 1970, an   9N                  ,disi_s   e   ectlNd- Tntel onee   t  dien                      na  dsbne
data                                                                                         fees hespitels dicided by the  -ots-a tebds.
dniff-st deftoici-eo   f -ba-noe  nap affec I_          apaability of datnHUSN
amn .g ontotee; 1960, 1971, nod :979 dana.                                             Averg-     iso   fnnel   cnnapnhnshl)-itl   ne.  and  ecal
Ponclaclee Frc7no:innn                                                 8.~~~ ha...nholdcontot   otgeo of isodii-oes she star  living qosotero
Fpol.atto` insea  2010  .- (ntat  preolatie. p...er ticon aead en 1980                       and their main  ea       A   erder or ledger may en may not he Ehladod In
totnl popolari   bya       .ad nec ccd -heir ssaitoy and fertility rates.                 the hc..sehe1d far tstaiti-1l poepenes.
Pojolopreta-efan icta y octe0  -nciot of these levlscaoe                     hA-gan  smhet of psesoa  yes toes- total, otbe, and mel    hsag  s
106 lUte naereanry ot lbirhionalg,thTcnr's' Per- capita Intone                            her of Perac.. pee ns- Ia all  rtba, end meal neepied nsesa
bed, an   raelieepcatr7a7ia                tP.5 yearn.  The Pera-                deioo  repciosl.    eelnsacaaatpraetsro                                       n
aroltoiocrma   e  pa   a-ypanigprosan.                                  Ao     n    lcrct   (eacen  f11idwellings)  -reno. neat  tsdtmeal -d
foe  nrehrateLu  qoalon te deth  ate,and  lso -ts  ge stf     ""         AL..ttEnr  re-L-21 M
E.ara-etaynr.  Thni -         hnc  cfl  ater, fei nlio   eaten   eclin          Cc -Inaned            . Iselee d.Ii.cthlcs          t        iiEq-t.            R  ..tg
tharopoonmotlael  f    dn-itoa  rPrortn    as   hnnn   eeate                        rmr  onhefat  l         --1tl  ml  ed  femal. e.-iesttl   aemdfml
cinoeairndcaieatp    The sina-tionn-oyj   -            peaatn   nswsaealneofnlae  anbthe peimne ,Ilte-lya  eteae        epnsr
ese.imaednoth  oal  of Iotle -- ppcjoe          1,ohtacerit..its   -g te-phelei.np..yste-g    aplees   amlyicldsaide    gdbi
tote  'tcPI  and ohaiceefl- d       sciteo  fertility rte  crelte      - IP1          years.t.   bat adj-oRtedfrdtera    agh            rmr   daoie   e
scoct   .lletnl.                                                   .eca..ntrien,:,,                     with nfeivort al e-Idneetien -esne   .. tst.1y ene   Ill pdefs1n
Inartatina    I ienlarn   On  natedy - Theyne  whn aattnet  popuatio                     sice anIdapil  en  haes at.  abasey the efine  s-nhanl. age.               .
PcrnaIie ln    hec                                                                          ndioc-tiefethninnnaetbass tone yeors. atIl   appresd.  primary inmnrantie
Pees. ah . y-  eli-pea   poaltid     thd f Ide til rente(ify h- enee) e                       ppr-eidesP bfencea.f e   daiefal,ent tesebhr fnisa p isaetiseEr    i
r-r so.dncI n..caltdal lan   - Cody-nd asshoot fr agdiolonballend                     aeladod
-et -;'.                                                                                  Voaican   Ioclet (e.r.et of.  sYcday      Vntinlisttein
I'- isane), ao M-ento-  6 pepra and teen  an.t  pkic=onage  nE0 shd.-yeepen Ofepl-   en as d..paInemats f- scndc    iattats..t.i.                                           i
tmelon   -IOC  191.nd178d. Pul-ly hf 12el -. 17Oay n.  en   eas o-  Intel stoe                                                                                -s srele   e
fPolaIne. k-ne  nen(e -eo)-  - C             -p..  Aesa   ooc   ae  cf total no.d-               Iprmy andd, scnaylvl   iie   yseas                       ecesi  b
linefo1910-9,d 19671  cd..  p97-PS                                                     ajpetrehage ottaadle_ pop-ee   age T-i yeasdend ae..tId
pn-paaoioe; .1960,  1970, acd  1918 data                                                CIgnI970T78s
Crude Peach  aloo  (pen ohonn..od) - Atonal dIai-    peeh phoaa chi.- si-pa                  Pes  er  osdc  tesn    alsa)      asnertr   epn                              ae
popoilaien; 19h1, 1971, acd 1979 date,                                                      tern  enneina less than sight p-es..s; eme1aden   mbola....s. beensoe.ad
Cress cnrodoton  tat -dorege onboe  of d            Iohtesnoa   sill bent in              nilltaey'v-hiclea
oilicyman; rnaly fi-perc  Irgse ding In 160. 190,  and 19P7.                            troadoasi  no geeatulcptthncdo   ouate;eene    al
A-iyPlntg - Aoees.  toa  (cho...ando) - Atona  coba-c ccetcn                          en                    ...les  ncotnins  -an  in yent .'thn rgesen ef radia ac
of btrth-c..etcol deet-n n-dor  -nplce cf aniceaL fatlp plamalg pecgrse.                     nuInefet  dt   e   -enre   y-ao  may ne  he  -ap-ble sene sees
anren of IhiId-teatiog ae(15-ha teats) etcss no  hit-c            tldeIce  to             TV Rnoivos  Pee thoonad pnealatine) - TV r-eni-ers fan b-edna- to
dlo td :eoni   ae cI   rop                                                             ge...eal publi  pe  Ehenend ypopletine; rccnenltnnd T%testefract
insentnrnad In  er  wine- hegitat    ef       sts was feefei.
FOOfDAl -- -oTRIEION                                                                           Neicepper  irolte   crinao   aanin   - iben  the nanege   mn s
odan of Find Podnloorbcia(99y-l(-Edde  of per cayito canl.itof"alygn.I                                                    etna "mapeet    efne  a  spe-stdIt1l pb-
frodotiorof al  foo  octncditto.  Fndncinneolrd-  send and feed an.iaio.end '.              t     preE    lyi.noolg  ena  sews..    Ini  csIde
Is en -al-cr pea  teem..  Coenodntlee -000cr  p              .n.y'neds (e.g. -na-.e..        no be"daily" If itappears at lease  Poor sines  ...eb.
roaed  f ngno  chcOAredtAble nod  ..oaloonren    (e.g. toffee and                   Tin_, nonou  Attenacte Ctieoe'o-red nthnnhtf
'teatenol).lgrat  prdoti   of ear  eotry is bae   0tiokets sold dorfig she year, incladieg edaissiens to drive-fc ninem
-teiea  ceeroge prodocer poion onighin.; 1961-6I, 1970, and 1979 dane.                       ecd mobile  nie
Pe -eecoPplv of eao e(p-oceot of reotents   Cespoted free
eonrogyeqalaloto  net food anpplins cassllble It ---tny pence pita                    fABlE FORCE
prday'.  A !eilaIe epylino cenpeisn do....tie peodootien, iep-rts len                 Tato1 tahoe Po-   (thoceade) - camclyatv    ene,incleding
cp-oc, and changaoliot-ck.  let -npplies ecolade  tla  fend, snede,                        IrnId farnn nod nennylayed ban ...cIding heo-nives, seadees, ste.
-oeti tes ...ed in food p--aaicg, Iod losnIn  icrhei                   R eqaiee-         lefinit.. atI ur cs c.o.ete  ar  on  tepantle; 1960, 1970 end
croo Ineo   enooe-d Opy FAC hand to ptaiolcgiaa1 nendo for .c.-I atni-                   1978 data.
tosdeh-ld  levl; 19 1:-i  1971  and 1977d                  er. .fihig                                   eretaeIftetl  aer tote f160   197  hsadt97  -daa
Pe  rrie   orI  ofprti(caoer doe  - Prtein  . octtt of per -upiga                  Indunery (op--s) - Leb-farce in  ining, ncsiarin  esfaitneina
not onypo cf lord pen day.  Net sopyly of fond is defined aS aove.  Es-                    and elentricity, enter and ges sa percentage ad tee1 lebar fern; 1960,
qrtnce   o   _olcutrn I   atished by USIA provide fc etines                      1970 -ud 1978  ue
oloao    f 60 Eoan  of total protin Per day and 20 Ers ofaimal nod                natinneu   Rte(pret- ntatl. male, sod femal    - ricipaine en
poln  pr-onl, of shich li gon  ohold he aniea  protein.  TOheonstan-                       aetivity'rtese nee.pnntd astete1, male, -ed f-mle 1abec feee-
adare lee  than thous  t 70 gra   of otal p-teiet  cod 13 grants of                    p-ro-eogee cf oci. male -an  femal  Pupleiena   lsenretivly;
anima  peotce a  an nroagePro  he acll,  ronnod bp  00 i  the  hIrd 1960, 1970, and 1975 deta.  These or  ELf'    partlipetiae letreseflsctfg
atold fodSuvy;16-6,191od 1977  aa                                                           g.e-n  -a.tnco- of the papoletino, and bo    ieied                    fewsth
Pe "aIt,  ocl   npeIo   anmladmn       rironpl   fln   e-                                 mtenee  freenoelu ras
noelfre  anoalIco  poln-  in goae pee dot  191-,61, 1970 ad 1977 deos.   Eeni Deneodecop Rstia-Rtoo                             oaisade1   n   5ndae
Child (ease 1-i  t-ectaLoy Eatr (n, teoan)- Atn-a  dectha Per oheonad in                       to the tar1 ilur fern..
ag Iotp1- Teeo  on ohllloen to thin gs sgneop..; Eon- most de,tloptogno-
tries dat  derived fra- life teblen; 1960, 19P1 and 1977 dati.                          ENCOME DESTIBUEITION
Pea..n.coen ef Pri,te Ions..  (both is neat and hind) -t iend hy eiehest
011A10                                                                                              peret, ricthet 20 per-Ceet  psoenet 20 peen..t, and peneesn hO yettest
lielpotcpn  BrIch locate  -Aerg  noboo   er f life remining                           of heosahede.
atbooth;   61 196 970 cod 17 aa
Infant f-ttetlt,nt  (tnt thns        _)       _ enal deaths o'   f      -aataod-er net_ss eoEo15f   IP
ad age pen thooe-d  Ien brtha.                                                            Es  AadIealote Faverty beans Level (if)  -e  recite) - aten and rural-
Acaseo  on loft cae-eeeto   oooio       ed    ea,ad enrol - N0                                 Ahanlone p.o...p inon.      lve  in thee lcae level below which           iminIma
N-nhe  of.    d    ttl   oa,ndro)ws   esebeacs  to cafe                                      -o tisei lly adeqente diet pine eseta   e-edPeqoirenowt  Is man
eater applp finladee created seffonnte    o  ntt           ecee-- d bat osc,stani-ed         affordable.
eac Ih on chat fro  po-eened bhorhleI,epig, end east ita-Y well)  c                     Estimatd Re.nlst- P-vot  lette  lete  (IU   Et  -pit.) - egha  sand tea
p--oogeno f their e-oac                   ..e.p.p.aia.  It en, oba  area a poblie            Erol rj.ejalive p-onte  inoelvli   t-h                  f aveagePer caPits
f-iconta    to atndp-ar located tot torn rhoo 201 onet  drone h""' may be                    Pr I05  laenI      f  hes  -e-o.  Urban leve  in derived fact the rural
eaceclr-da   heObnig  I thin      .. ceooai  occeen of that hanon.In coral erect             I ..s. nI     edjtth t   dt higt-  cost of Iioi.g in, ueb nois
rean....ble  -cna  -nnd inply thae   h the  ..o lfP-      testate of Ehe hanseheld         inIae.e  I.o ac    helo    aatyitr   ee                              .pe a ...  ocher
do vat have, to apod I diap-op-tri-ste part of the dyIn fetrhiog the                          n   na       eca   Cpplto    ntn    t   oa)woae"hcaepo"
f il'scre eds.                                                                     ____
total  N-sober of pseple             - cc,coe, nod -onlfected bpycoe
dispaso  noI  pr-cosgen of oh ear respeoi-e papolnofena.  foEncat din-  .                                                     cooicad Ssolol Deco Diviafen
Pal map lolde the coletonad disp-snl, with at  onth-o ot-t nne                                                         E....ot. RAuIpats and Prapsatteec Depeemat
of h-.aeocets andnee-f ne  bp oetnb-h re  nysita  or fhc use af                                                                              0etober 1980
PtP priolan cod ainile  iese1sllotoo.. 



- 65 -
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 9
ECONOMIC INDICATORb
Population:       44.3 million (1980)
GNP Per Capita:  Uo$133U (1979)
Amount                   Average Annual Increase (Z)               Share of GDP at Market Prices (M)
(million Ub$                 (at constant 1978 prices)                      (at current prices)
Indicator                                  at current prices)
1979               1965-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85           1965      1970      1975    1980 /a
daslONAL ACCOUNTs
Gross domestic product /b                      58,647                    6.6         7.5        3.4        4.2      100.0    100.0    100.V   100.0
Agriculture                                12,766                     3.1        4.4        2.9         3.8       30.7      26.4      26.2    24.7
Ildustry /c                                13,310                     9.5        9.5        4.5         5.2       16.6      17.2      18.0    20.5
aervices                                   28,808                     8.2        8.0        4.0        4.0       42.9       46.5      46.0    47.3
Consumption                                   47,907                     5.8         7.0        3.2        3.6       84.6      82.8      84.8    82.0
Gross investment                               13,140                   11.7        12.9       -0.2        4.2       16.7      20.1      23.7    21.2
Exports ot goons and NFP                        2,977                    7.9         7.3        1.5       10.7        6.1       5.8       6.1      5.4
imports of goo0s and NF6                        5,378                   11.2       13.8       -6.6         3.7        7.4       8.7      14.5      8.8
Gross national savings                         11,938                   11.6        11.2        2.1        4.7       15.9      18.8       18.4    18.5
Average Annual Increase (%)            Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)
(at constant 1978 prices)                     (at current prices)
1972-75       1976-79                1965       1970       1975      1980 /e
mECHEANDIsE TRADE
Kiercnandise exporLs                            2,261                           -1.0           -1.5               100.0      100.0       100.0    100.0
Primary /a                                  1,476                            -5.0          -3.6                80.0        83.0       64.1      61.7
Manufactures                                  785                             8.3           2.9                 20.0       17.0       35.9      38.3
ierchanaise imports                             5,069                           10.6          -14.6               100.0       900.0     10C.0    100.0
Food                                          114                            46.0         -35.0                  6.0        9.3        8.3       2.6
Petroleum                                   1,759                             9.2          -1.8                10.0         7.0       17.0      47.8
Machinery & equipment /c                    1,502                             8.0         -23.8                 39.9       39.8       38.5      21.1
Otner                                       1,694                             9.1         -12.4                44.1        43.9       36.2      28.6
1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980 /e
PeICEb AND TEKiMb OF TRADE
GDP derlator                                                50.0       58.6        73.1      100.0      160.0      320.0
Excnange rate                                               14.4       16.1       18.0       24.3        36.4       76.4
E.port price iloes                                          84.0       87.4       95.6      100.0       105.6      128.1
Import price index                                          84.2       87.6       96.0      100.0       125.6      165.2
Terms or trade index                                        99.7       99.8       99.6      100.0        84.1       77.5
As X of GDP
(at current prices)
1965        1970       1975        1980 /e
PLELIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                       15.0        22.6        22.0       20.1
Current expenditure                                                   10.0        11.8        12.6       11.8
surplus (+) or dericit (-)                                            -2.0        -2.3       -0.4        -5.1
Investment expenditure                                                 4.7         5.7        4.2         4.2
Transfers                                                              5.0         7.5        5.5         9.3
Foreign 1inancing                                                      1.8         1.6        0.3         0.2
1965-70    1970-75      1975-80      1981-85
OITER INDiCATOR6
GNP growth rate (0)                                                   6.8         7.7          3.2         3.9
GNP per capita growth rate kt)                                        4.1         5.0         0.7          1.4
lCOR                                                                  2.9         2.9          5.7         5.1
Marginal savings rate k2)                                            28.2        l9.5         16.7        25.8
Impurt elasticity                                                     1.7         1.8        -1.9          0.9
/a At cousstant 1978 prices.
/b   At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies
/c   Includes mining and quarrying, manufacturing, and electricity, gas, and water.
/7a   1LIccuoes agriculture and minit,g ans  quarrying.
/e   Estimate.
/t   Incluces metal products and machinery, electrical appliances, and transportation vehicles.
EM2DA
4/20/81



- 66 -
ANNEX I
Page 9 of 9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million us$ a t current prices)
popn.crcon:        4        14.3  0illi- (1980)
LdP Per Capita:  Uco330 (19797
Actual                                                       Projected
1970      1975      1976       1977      1978       1979       1960 /a  1981        1982       1983      1984       1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENT,
Net exports oul gocos  n SE                              342       3067      2993      3880       1953      2442        3990      4365       4706      4858       4889      4771
-cpor-.  f goods  NF 9                                754      2152      2742       2556      3106       3257       3700       4332      5183       6340      7762       95i1
l.pertL  of g-do f NF:                               1096      5219      5735       6436      5059       5699       7690       8696      9889      11197     12651     14281
W--rern' kemittances                                     273       1312       983       982        983      1694        2100      2400       2700      3000       3300      3500
Net tran-Lir-                                             91         23        65         12         -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -
Currect uccuoc c .. iance                                -58    -1892       -2295    -3572       -1710     -1771       -2788    -3207    -3667        -3916     -4054      -4115
Eirect  prceate ioves tote                                92        251       163        169       147       200         175       200        220       244        273       299
Pablic  MILE (grats) /D                                  271        334       720       997       1017      4321 /d   1957        2165       2585      2862      2978       3114
A.orti-t-,o on 0:? /n (lenl. debt reliel)               -146       -175      -203      -234       -336      -414        -925      -997    -1245       -L934    -2058    -2102
Punilc  64&LT (net) /b                                   125        159       517        763       681      3907        1032      1168       1341       928        920      1016
DLcc RLi-er (-1yrlieocce ovly)                             -          -         -          -         -          -        814       533        608       811        282      -29
oLner ccp-cal /c                                          27        955      1503      2074       1030    -2410         1159      1424       1682      2137      2806       3340
Cl4ocnge : rrservresa 1- = increase)                    -186        417       112        566      -148         7o       -392      -116       -184      -203      -226       -255
loderoatoonal reserves                                   612      1404       1292       726        874       800        1192      1310       1495      169S      1924       118'
3         3          1         2         2           2         2          2         2          2         2
1972      1975      1976       1973      1973       1979      1980 /0
tucoc DlIcfL-tEMENST
G-oss a:obucneceoco of 862-   loans                                             372        334       720        997      ;017      4321 /d  1957
Cooccec lena 1                                                               261       103        167       193        227       596       446
Sclarerol                                                                139         69        81        130       192        510       389
IA                                                                         4        18        21         19         8          3         1
Otoerc multilateral                                                       116        13        65         44        27         83        56
on-cooicessioilal                                                           111       224        553       804      279        3725 Id  1512
rfticial exporL creditc                                                     1        47         57        47        91        202       247
1 Bd                                                                       25        91       117        146       165        277       365
OLccer mc .Irlcerci                                                        27        48        54          5        35         11        26
Prioc-  /'                                                                 58        38       325       vO6        499      3235 /d   679
EXfIENAL D3dl
ceor  c---aiccog  -na coborce-  /c                                             2519       3320      3833      4752       6842     11621      12818
uItisl                                                                      2273      2980       3275      3648      5454       7212      8476
1bgD                                                                      92        268       391        512       648       890       1215
IcA                                                                        99       144       163        181       168        .90       190
o toer                                                                  2082       2548      2721       2905      4618      6132       7071
Drovate  jc                                                                  246       340        558      1104      1388       4409 /d  4342
D2 cL o--caodno   f icl og ondisboroed (public and priva-e)                    3541      4931       6157      7545      10355     15302      17934
local dcbc ser-ice /f                                                           224        291       368       418        532       689        710
Payocuco                                                                     161       172        203       234        336       414       112
IceresoL                                                                      63       116        165       184       196        275       598
Local  oect orrolcr us I expcrts of goodfo    NPS
koirrke' r-dc-tcocec                                                      11.8       8.4        9.9      11.8      13.9       13.9      12.2
local orb  s-ericc    as 0. GOlE                                                1.3        0.8       0.9       0.9        1.0       1.2        1.3
Average i--cero   -rate  on now Scars (4)                                       4.4        7.3       7.2        5.6       6.9      11.2        6.1
CSf-c.al                                                                     4.5       6.4        7.1       7.6       6.3        4.4
Private                                                                      6.8       8.7        7.6       7.6       6.2       13.7
Average ost-rily oftna learn  (years)                                          22.1       13.1      12 .7       17       13.2      11.1       20.3
Lcrecial                                                                    26.0      18.6       17.3      14.5       15.6      23.5
Private                                                                     11.0       5.1       10.2       8.9       7.6        7.1
IBkD Do0/        DOta D 03                                                      3.7        8.7      10.2      10.8        9.5       5.7        7.5
SfD diseburoements/trotl gBess disb-r-eoents                                    6.7      27.2       16.3      14.6       16.2       6.4       18.7
louD deern ntvice/total debt service                                            5.1      10.5       11.7      15.0       15.4      15.3        9.4
1iDA ueDlt.ctl DO                                                              3.9       4.3        4.3        3.6       2.7       1.6        1.5
13 dAs-sIroro_oL/uottl gross disb-r-enents                                     1.1        5.4       2.9       1.9        0.8       0.1        -
IDA  -Ior service/total debt  -ervncr                                           0.4       0.6        0.6       0.5        0.4       0.4        0.4
Ac 0 of Debt Outsteandleg
or  Ic DII fict Sret,
atEnd  of Mos Reen
Year (1979)
'liONS D5500lruO
Maccrcty strecuroe of deot ontstanding (Y)
Ma turftces -ue nn- nv S yeart                                                                        46.0
Mrti ritcen due  cithin   10 ypor:                                                                     75.5
Itaterest srucntre of deOt -outotding ( )
loIet         _ tue  -ctvcn tilt ye                                                                 12.8
/a  Eiuietc
bI  In.-des pr-acte guarantees sod non-guarcnteead cbt.
Ic   l.'c.0c- er-ror  and e:cssio- n, and for projec-t- yearn it incloden ont IMP, and coide-tifitd cDpital inflows.
/0    I-cIuds  f2,638 .,llion of cocoulidaced uhort-erm debt.
/c   E-c-c-en nt-os -....rt-trn. in-Scoe-  done  reli-.
/    Tlaen  accoLnt or debt relief doe tc debt re-r headning, and e-Icldes in-er-et or shorc-tern debts.
EM DA
4/ 20/SI



- 67 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1981)
Loan
Number    Year   Borrower                  Purpose                          Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed                      814.5      177.4
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey        Education                         13.5                 0.2
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey        Istanbul Water Supply             37.0                 9.2
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey        Ceyhan Aslantas                   44.0                18.0
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway   Railway Project                     46.7                 1.1
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey        Antalya Forestry                  40.0                 0.2
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                   Elbistan Power                   148.0                44.0
1024-TU   I974   DYB                       Industry                          40.0                 0.5
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey        Rural Development                 75.0                39.1
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)          Agriculture Credit                54.3                31.1
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)        Newsprint                         70.0                 8.3
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey        Livestock III                     21.5                11.2
1194-TU   1976   TEK                       Power Transmission II             56.0                 9.2
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey        Tourism                           26.0                22.5
1379-TU   1977   DYB                       Industry                          70.0                19.7
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                      Industry                          74.0                 9.0
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Northern Forestry                 86.0                67.4
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Livestock IV                      24.0                22.2
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Erdemir Steel Stage II            95.0                80.2
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Ports Rehabilitation              75.0                75.0
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Grain Storage                     85.0                85.0
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                      Industry                          60.0                53.3
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                      Private Sector Textiles           65.0                62.4
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                      Private Sector Textiles           15.0                15.0
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Ankara Air Pollution Control       6.0                 5.7
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Karakaya Hydropower              120.0               120.0
1847-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Sumerbank Cotton Textiles         83.0                81.9
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Livestock V                       51.0                51.0
1915-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Structural Adjustment
Supplement                     75.0                 52.9
1916-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Petroleum Exploration             25.0                25.0
1917-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Oil Recovery                      62.0                62.0
1952-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey        Labor Intensive Industry          40.0                40.0
Total                                                    2597.5 /b  177.4   1205.3
of which has been repaid                                230.9        6.4
Total now outstanding                                    2326.6      171.0
Amount sold                       3.6
of which has been repaid       3.6                      - 0 -      - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                        2326.6      171.0
Total undisbursed                                        1205.3        0     1205.3
/a Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b Excludes $40 million loan for the Second Fruit and Vegetable Project approved
by the Board on March 31, 1981.



- 68 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor       Type of Business                    Loan   Equity    Total
1964     TSKB          DFC                                  -        0.92      0.92
1966     SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn                          0.90      0.47      1.37
1967     TSKB II       DFC                                  -        0.34      0.34
1969     TSKB III      DFC                                  -        0.41      0.41
1969     SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn                          1.50      0.43      1.93
1970     Viking I      Pulp and Paper                      2.50      0.62      3.12
1970     ACS           Glass                              10.00      1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS         Aluminum                            7.00      1.37      8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                           0.75       -        0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                        -        0.05      0.05
1972     SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                           -        0.52      0.52
1972     TSKB IV       DFC                                  -        0.43      0.43
1973     TSKB V        DFC                                10.00       -       10.00
1973     Akdeniz       Tourism                             0.33      0.27      0.60
1974     Borusan       Steel Pipes                         3.60      0.43      4.03
1974     AKSA          Textiles                           10.00       -       10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                             1.30       -        1.30
1975     Sasa          Nylon Yarn                         15.00       -       15.00
1975     Aslan         Cement                             10.60       -       10.60
1975     DOKTAS        Steel                               7.50      1.37      8.87
1975     TSKB          DFC                                25.00      1.23    26.23
1976     NASAS         Aluminum                            1.58       -        1.58
1976     TSKB          DFC                                25.00       -       25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                               12.00      2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan       Steel Pipes                          -        0.06      0.06
1978     DOKTAS        Steel                                -        0.09      0.09
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                   2.15       -        2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories        8.62      0.68      9.30
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                 -        1.80      1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                               33.15      2.25    35.42
1980     TSKB          DFC                                  -        1.09      1.09
1980     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories         -        0.95      0.95
1980     MENSA         Textile and Fibers                  4.00       -        4.00
Total Gross Commitments                        192.48    19.56   212.04
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                    120.31      3.49   123.80
Total Commitments now held by IFC               72.17    16.07    88.24
Total Undisbursed                                  .50     0.23       .73



- 69 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project:  US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date; January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs were completed in early 1979. Substantial improvements
to the distribution system, required to enable full utilization to be made of
the new water sources, are under implementation. Tariff increases have been
implemented recently, and a reorganization of the management, accounting and
financial systems is under consideration.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project; US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date; March 20,
1974. Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The upstream coffer dam has also been completed.
Progress in 1980 was in general satisfactory. The pace of construction of the
power-house was lower than forecast, but is not expected to delay completion.
The construction of the irrigation system is progressing, with the system now
ready to transport irrigation water to about 30,000 ha, one third of the
target. On-farm works are progressing steadily, with about 50 percent
completed. Tile drainage is being delayed until the main drains are located.
Staffing of the extension service is satisfactory except as regards consul-
tants; the Government is taking steps to hire the latter. Project is expected
to be completed by end 1983.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date; August 28, 1973. Closing Date; June 30, 1981.
After initial delays, physical progress:, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Over 95 percent of the loan has been
disbursed and procurement action has been completed for use of the remaining
loan funds.  Despite several tariff increases since the loan was made, the
Railways have continued to fall short of the financial targets in the revised
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 70 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is hoped that
further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging 70 to 170
percent, which became effective in January 1980, will improve the Railways'
financial situation. While the dieselization program is making satisfactory
progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such as
appropriate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.
Project is expected to be closed on schedule.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project; US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date; May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
Construction is substantially completed. Most of the main ancillary
process equipment is in place, but construction is hindered by material
shortages. The project is expected to be completed by January 1982 and
production commence in mid-year, two and a half years behind the revised
schedule. Sufficient foreign currency is available to complete the project.
Local currency payments for the Akdeniz establishment are now being made.
Substantial price increases in 1980 should enable the company to meet most of
the local currency requirements.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date; June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey
resulted in some improvement of project execution, until mid-1979. However,
continuing and serious shortage of local funds has affected project progress,
which has been aggravated by staff and management deficiencies. The Govern-
ment's expected timely provision of adequate local funds for this high
priority project from the Structural Adjustment Loan Counterpart Funds has
helped resume momentum. The colenders and the Government agreed in November
1980 on a detailed program of action to overcome remaining implementation
problems; this program is now being implemented.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 22, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is in general progressing satisfactorily though because
of disruptions in construction it is probable that the irrigation works will
be completed only by end 1983. Corum dam has been completed as also the works
to divert run-off from 5 nearby watersheds. Kumbaba pumping station is ready,



- 71 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
and irrigation has started.  Alaca dam is expected to be completed by end
1981. Damage to the Alaca diversion tunnel, because of rock slides, has been
repaired and the tunnel lining is almost finished. Contracts for the irri-
gation system of the Guldercek area has been awarded and work is in progress.
The project extension service is operating successfully and its impact on
agriculture is promising. The Government has replaced one of the two vacant
consultant posts. Further construction of village centers is being delayed
until agreement is reached on satisfactory plan for using and maintaining
existing centers and plans for additional centers are revised.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project; US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date; April, 21, 1978. Closing Date; December 31,
1981.
Procurement action is almost complete, somewhat behind schedule, and
almost the entire loan is committed.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindust:ries; US$54.3 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date; May 11, 1977. Closing Date; September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on and
roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable Export
project are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports in
Turkey and two ports in Italy. The implementaition of agro-industries
component is delayed, mainly due to investors' reluctance to assume the
foreign exchange risk. Government is reviewing possible measures to overcome
this problem. The Agricultural Bank (TCZB) has introduced improved lending
procedures for its ongoing supervised credit program, and this component is
being implemented satisfactorily. After considerable delay, consultants have
begun the study of TCZB's structure and procedures. At the Borrower's
request, a cattle-fattening component of the Project, and US$7.7 million of
the original Loan amount of $63 million allocated for this purpose, were
cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04
million for training was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following approval of
UNDP funds for this purpose.
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint; US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date; October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is nearing physical completion. The sawmill has begun
operations, although wood supply and marketing problems now must be resolved.
Recent price increases have helped to correct the local currency shortage
situation and the project is expected to start production in early 1981, 2
years behind the appraisal schedule. Trial production runs have already begun.



- 72 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation
improved but has recently deteriorated due to resource constraints affecting
field staff travel. This has adversely affected the preparation of farm
development plans. Though project area offices have been established, they
are not fully staffed. Government has taken some measures, and is reviewing
others to correct the situation. A higher than expected proportion of
sub-loans has been made to small farmers. The Governmental budget required
for 1981 has been approved in its entirety.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is underway, with progress
being made in preparation of specifications and project design work, although
the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than expected
due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are being
taken.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date; March 31,
1982.
The loan is expected to be fully committed in the next few months.
DYB still has severe staff constraints, which it has in part overcome by
recruitment of additional junior staff. It hopes improved contract terms will
enable it to fill more senior positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US074.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and the loan has been fully committed. TSKB
has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of its resources to
projects in less developed regions and export-oriented industries. It has so
far been unable to raise resources in international capital markets as
expected because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the interest of
several financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit renewed
efforts.



- 73 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry; US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date; March 31, 1986.
Industrial wood production for 1979 was close to forecasts but there
were significant shortfalls in some other targets, principally as a result of
Government budget cuts. Continuing local resource constraints have adversely
affected all targets during 1980, causing delays in preparation of forest
management plans over about 22 percent of the project area and timely payment
by SEEs' for timber delivery. Foreign procurement is effectively up to date
but local state enterprises have been unable to supply much of the locally
produced equipment (principally vehicles to replace existing stocks).
Consideration is being given to procuring them internationally.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV; US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program for farm development has been
initiated. The milk industry study has been satisfactorily completed.
International recruitment of technical specialists, considerably delayed, is
underway, and the staffing requirements agreed upon with the Bank have been
met. The 1981 budget has been approved in its entirety.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date:_ July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line are completed. Product selling prices
have been substantially increased in January 1981. Production from existing
facilities has been severely restricted from time to time because of the lack
of raw materials due to the limited availability of foreign exchange.
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation: US$75 million of July 2, 1979. Effective
Date; January 22, 1980. Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
The project coordinating committee is in place and functioning
effectively. Procurement is making good progress. UNDP has appointed a
project manager to implement the project related training programs. The port
sector planning studies have been delayed by lack of staff, but steps are
being taken to correct this.
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage; US$85 million of July 2, 1979. Effective Date;
January 21, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. Proposals from prequalified
consultants for engineering design and supervision of construction are under
evaluation.



- 74 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey); US$60 million
of July 12, 1979. Effective Date: October 25, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
After initial delays, the progress is now satisfactory with over 75
percent of the loan committed. TSKB and ITC finalized in November the
technical assistance program for training and export development is under
implementation.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB (US$65 million) and 1755 SYKB (US$15 million) Private
Sector Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date; February 29,
1980. Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
Consultants have prepared the preliminary program for local
training. The additional consultants for technical services and for the
extension services are in place. Revised Action Plans are being prepared.
Approval of sub-projects has begun, and about 25 percent of the loan has been
committed.
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of December
12, 1979. Effective Date: April 4, 1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Consultants being selected for project studies.
Ln. No. 1844 Karakaya Hydropower; US$120 million loan of May 21, 1980.
Effective Date: August 15, 1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
Project implementation is making progress.
Ln. No. 1847 Sumerbank Textiles Modernization and Rationalization; US$83
million loan of May 28, 1980. Effective Date; February 27, 1981. Closing
Date; June 30, 1984.
Project implementation has begun. Arrangements for consultants are
nearly finalized and procurement actions have commenced.
Ln. No. 1862 Livestock V; US$51 million loan of June 6, 1980. Effective
Date: October 22, 1980. Closing Date; June 30, 1987.
Project implementation has begun. Consultants are being selected.



- 75 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1915 Structural Adjustment Loan Supplement; US$75 million loan of
November 24, 1980. Effective Date: January 7, 1981.
Closing Date: August 31, 1981.
The loan disbursements were $37 million as of April 15, 1981.
Ln. No. 1916 Petroleum Exploration Project: US$25 million loan of November
24, 1980. Effective Date: June 30, 1981. Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective, but actions are under way to initiate
project implementation.
Ln. No. 1917 Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project,
US$62 million loan of November 24, 1980. Effective Date; June 30, 1981.
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective, but actions are under way to initiate
project implementation.
Ln. No. 1952 Labor Intensive Industry Project; US$40 million loan of
March 13, 1981. Effective Date: June 12, 1981. Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 76 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Date of first presentation to Bank:               March 1980
(b)  Appraisal mission:                                February 1981
(c)  Completion of negotiations:                       April 1981
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness;                    May 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Disbursement of second tranche of $100 million after satisfactory review
of progress (para. 189) in:
(i)    Macroeconomic Policies
The adequacy of policies and legislative and administrative
measures for export promotion, import liberalization and domestic
resource mobilization, in particular with respect to tax reforms:
(a) Progress in enacting a law providing for a value added tax
to be introduced during fiscal 1982 (para. 49); and
(b) Progress in establishing procedures for adequate tax
collection, especially with respect to personal and
corporate income and agricultural sales tax (para. 49).
(ii)   Supply-side Policies
The adequacy of energy policies, in particular pricing of
petroleum products at levels comparable to international market prices
(para. 92)



- 77 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii) State Economic Enterprises (SEEs)
The adequacy of progress in SEE reforms, in particular;
(a) By September 30, 1981, (i) implementation of the reforms
decided in principle in February 1981 by the Council of
Ministers, and (ii) approval by the Council of Ministers of
proposals for legal changes permitting greater delegation of
authority within SEEs and multi-year contracts for their
managers (para. 157).
(b) Adhering to the 1981 Program decree for the SEEs as regards
numbers of authorized positions and new hiring (para. 157).
Progress to be reviewed inter alia by examining the
implementation in selected SEEs of the measures under (a)(i) and
(b) above (para. 157).
2.    Counterpart funds to finance expenditures included in development
programs (para. 186).
3.    Retroactive financing of up to $30 million worth of expenditures after
April 1, 1981 (para. 188).



- 78 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 17
T. C.
DEVLET BAKANLIGI
BASBAKAN YARDIMCILI1I
ANKARA
February 20, 1981
SAYI
KONU:
Mr. Robert S. McNamara
President
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. McNamara:
Second Structural Adjustment Loan
In January 1980, the Government of Turkey introduced a
far-reaching Stabilization Program which, along with the
exchange rate and interest rate liberalizaticnmeasure of
June and July 1980, was supported by the SDR 1,250 million
three-year Standby Arrangement with the IMF, the $200 mil-
lion First Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) and its $75
million Supplement from the World Bank, and substantial
financial assistance from the OECD Countries (including a
major rescheduling of debt service obligations) and from
Saudi Arabia. The objectives, strategy and policies were
described in some detail in my letter to you of February 7,
1980, in connection with SAL I.
Following the September 12th operation, the new regime
has endorsed the January 1980 program, and has implemented
significant new policies. These include: a major fiscal re-
form, which seeks to completely overhaul the system of tax-
ation, and covers not only the restructuring and revision of
existing taxes, but the introduction of important new taxes,
and significant improvements in tax administration;  a sub-
tantial liberalization of the import regime, abolishing
entirely the quota list, and expanding the scope of the
more liberalized list; and additional incentives for the
growth of Turkey's exports. We have also been concerned that
pubfic expenditure should be channelled to the most produc-
tive sectors, and hence this year the existing portfolio of
public investment projects was revised according to strict
criteria. Efforts to improve the financial accountability of
SEEs have been continued through sharply restricting their ac-
cess to the Central Bank and the Treasury; their cadres and
hiring have been frozen and attrition will progressively re-



79                   ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 17
-2-
duce their overstaffing; a. committee comprising of Ministers
responsible for these SEEs has been established to formula-;e
specific and far-reaching measures leading to more fundamental
reforms of the SEE sector, which address the problems of ef-
ficiency, overstaffing, and operational autonomy.
These new policy actions, and future policy directions,
have been discussed in detail with your staff, and are ela-
borated in the enclosed Statement of Development Policies.
Turkey is in good standing with the IMF, with which we
have a three-year Standby Arrangement extending to June 1983.
The Standby Arrangement supports the continuativnof the econo-
mic reforms set forth in the Government's January 1980 stabili-
zation program. Under the arrangement, Turkey purchased the
equivalent of SDR 190 million in June 1980, SDR 70 million in
September 1980, and SDR 100 million in January 1981.
In support of the Government's policies which havebeen
implemented, and the program of policy actions outlined above
and in the Statement of Development Policies, we would like
to request a Second Structural Adjustment Loan in the amount
of $300 million in Bank FY81.
Yours sinerely,
urg't Oz 1
Deitty Prime Minister



- 80 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 17
Attachment
Page 1 of 15
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICIES
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A. MACROECONOMIC POLICIES
1.       The Turkish economy over recent years has been characterized by
serious external and internal imbalances. Faced with these difficulties, the
Government introduced major stabilization measures in January 1980 which have
been followed up subsequently by further far-reaching policy initiatives.
These measures covered a wide spectrum but especially significant was the
adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy, policies geared to promoting
exports and liberalising imports, reform of the SEE sector, and policies
designed to mobilize savings through tax reform and interest rate policy. The
measures generally aimed at strengthing the external position, reducing the
rate of inflation, and creating the conditions conducive to achieving a
sustainiable rate of growth.
2.       As regards the external position, the measures already taken have
yielded significant improvement, including a strong performance with respect
to workers' remittances in 1980 and a sharp upturn in exports towards the end
of the year. Internally, there have also been some signs of improvement,
especially in regard to the rate of inflation, which decelerated markedly
during the course of the year.
3.       In order to consolidate these gains and further strengthen the
economy, we have recently adopted the following measures:
Balance of Payments Policies:
4.       Exchange Rate Policy:  To ensure that external competitiveness would
be mnaintained, we have maintained a policy of flexible exchange rate
management and intend to continue this policy.
Export Promotion Policies:
5.       We have made further improvement in the financial incentives and
administrative procedures for exporters which include:
-   export earnings can now be deducted to varying degrees from
taxable income, depending on export activity. All export
earnings from overseas contracting are now fully tax deductible.
-   commercial banks have been required to increase steadily the
share of their outstanding credit extended for industrial exports
to 10 percent by December 1980, and to 15 percent by end June
1981. This is enforced by the Central Bank through
administrative measures.



- 81 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 17
Attachment
Page 2 of 15
-   increasing the proportion of pre-export credit which is made
available in one installment.  This was made possible by an
expansion in the volume of export credits.
-   continued improvement in the institutional and administrative
framework for exporters, including the initiation of an export
insurance system under the 1981 Export Regime, which will be
implemented by April 1981.
Import Liberalization:
6.       We have continued the reform of the import regime following the
measure taken last year allowing exporters to import needed inputs duty free
and without regard to the import regime. The main feature of the 1981 import
regime is the abolition of the quota list, with the items previously in this
category being shifted to one of the two liberalized lists. In general, raw
material and intermediate goods previously on the quota list have been shifted
to the most liberalized category (Liberalized List I), while machinery and
capital goods items have been shifted to the intermediate category
(Liberalized List II). In addition, another group of intermediate goods and
pharmaceuticals have been shifted from the intermediate to the most
liberalized list.
7.       We are also making arrangements to undertake the agreed long-term
study of Turkey's protection and incentive system. We have proposed detailed
organizational arrangements for this study and requested financing from the
Bank for it. We intend to complete the study by end 1982.
Workers' Remittances:
8.       We have introduced a new scheme to provide additional encouragement
to Turkish workers abroad to remit their savings to Turkey. This scheme
provides for deposits in Turkish banks in foreign exchange at competitive
yields, which, upon maturity, are either renewable or convertible into Turkish
Lira at the prevailing exchange rate.
Domestic Resource Mobilization Policies:
9.       Tax Reform:  We have undertaken a major reform of the system of
taxation, with the objectives of bringing about a more equitable distribution
of the tax burden, of generating additional net revenue, and of improving the
efficiency of tax administration. This complex series of measures has been
discussed with your staff and major features of the reform are:
g   restructuring the personal income tax schedule to take account of
inflation;



- 82 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 17
Attachment
Page 3 of 15
introducing an advance payments system of taxing non-wage
earners, with the burden of proof concerning appropriate tax
assessment shifted to the tax payer;
introducing an agricultural sales tax;
substantially increasing the lump sum taxes paid by small
tradesmen and artisans;
increasing the rates on a wide range of other taxes;
providing the municipalities with a better revenue base; and
major improvements in tax administration ranging from
substantially higher tax penalties to increasing the overall
budget for tax administration.
10.      SEE Pricing and Finances:  We have continued and reaffirm our
commitment to the policy of maintaining pricing autonomy for the SEEs, with
the exception of a few basic goods. This policy has been reflected in a
series of price increases since SAL I Supplement.
11.      Access to Central Bank Financing:  In a decree of November 29, 1980
we have restricted the direct access of SEEs to Central Bank financing to two
agricultural SEEs.
12.      Interest Rates:  We have made further significant progress with our
recently introduced policy of deregulating interest rates. Interest rates in
general have been raised, the latest change being on February 1, 1981 when
commercial banks raised rates on deposits, for example to 50 percent per annum
for one-year deposits, and to 42 percent on six-month deposits.
13.      Investment Incentives:  By a new law of December 24, 1980 and decree
of November 30, 1980 investment allowances for less developed regions and
export activities have been increased and now cover borrowed funds as well as
owner's equity.
FURTHER STEPS TO FOSTER STRUCTURAL CHANGES:
14.      In addition, we intend to undertake the following measures:
Balance of Payments Measures:
15.      -   A draft law to establish an export credit insurance agency has
been nearly finalized and legislation is expected to be enacted
during the year.



- 83 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 17
Attachment
Page 4 of 15
Legislation is expected to be enacted during 1981 to establish
free trade zones.
Revitalize Ihracat Gelistirme Merkezi (IGEME) to make it an
effective export promotion center, and encourage the
establishment of export promotion organizations by the private
sector.
Further improve the import tariff structure.
Further institutional actions on export promotion (e.g. Export
Development Bank).
Domestic Resource Mobilization Measures:
16.      -   Enactment of the following tax measures is expected:
- Introduction of a value added tax by 1982;
- Reduction of the transaction tax by May 1981; and
- Rationalization of production and sales taxes by M4ay 1981.
-   Introduction of the principle of index-linking specific taxes,
income tax brackets and tax penalties by December 1981.
-   Continuation of improvements in tax administration.
17.      The overall objective of these tax measures is to improve the equity
of the tax system and to raise the tax/GDP ratio from 19 percent in 1980 to
well over 22 percent by 1982.
18.      -   Enactment is expected by March 1981 of the capital market bill
already finalized by the Government to:
- Set up an independent commission with the authority to
supervise and control the capital market; and to
- Grant authority to commercial banks to undertake portfolio
management on behalf of the public.
We also intend to:
-   Enact legislation to introduce a professional cbartered
accountancy system; independent auditors with this qualification
would examine the financial viability of firms wishing to issue
stocks or bonds.
-   Enact legislation allowing firms to revalue their assets, with
the initial revaluation not subject to income taxation.



- 84 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 17
Attachment
Page 5 of 15
-   Encourage a wider private ownership of firms, as well as
assisting the authorities in the efficient collection of taxes
through limiting the issuances of "bearer" sbares to 50 percent
of a firm's total equity.
-   Raise the rate of interest on Government bonds to a more
competitive level.
-   After passage of the capital market bill, lift the ceilings on
private bond rates.
B. SUPPLY-SIDE POLICIES
Public Investment
19.      For its 1981 Annual Program, the Government has rationalized its
public investment program. The level of investment has been brought into line
with available resources. Those resources will be concentrated on a smaller
number of projects. We have carried out a comprehensive review of the
enormous portfolio of ongoing projects, and have allocated priorities among
them as follows: First, among sectors, priority has been given to
agricultural projects, in view of the export potential of the sector; to
energy projects, so as to remove bottlenecks; and to communications projects,
particularly freight transportation, to facilitate industrial agricultural
production. Second, priority has been given to export-oriented projects,
particularly those in agriculture. Third, within the sectoral priorities,
projects have been grouped as follows:
*(a) high priority projects which (i) can be completed within 24
months, where there is substantial sunk capital and where a high
cash flow is expected, or (ii) can be brought quickly to a more
economic basis through rehabilitation and debottlenecking: these
have been given large allocations;
(b) profitable projects, the additional requirements of which exceed
the resources available to the public sector: The Government
will attempt to have these implemented through the equity
participation of the private sector, either jointly with the
public sector or alone; and
(c) reserve projects of uncertain merits: these are subject to
further study, or have been eliminated from the program.
The Government looks forward to discussing the report of the Bank's public
investment review mission around May 1981, and intends to take account of the
views expressed in the preparation of the 1982 public investment program. -We
shall inform the Bank of the priorities for that program, especially of any
changes from those of this year.



- 85 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 17
Attachment
Page 6 of 15
Energy
20.      Since the first oil crisis of 1973/74 the Government has placed
considerable emphasis on the development of the country's domestic energy
resources and the World Bank itself has supported several major projects to
this end. This includes participation in major hydro and lignite based
thermal power generation (Karakaya and Elbistan A), it includes the enhanced
oil recovery program at Bati Raman and a petroleum exploration project and it
covers an engineering loan to support a lignite pollution eradication program
which would enhance the acceptability of this important local fuel as an
alternative to other energy sources. Following the further major escalation
of world oil prices in 1979 and the severe impact this has had on Turkey's
import bill, this emphasis on energy continued as an important feature of the
January 1980 package of economic measures, specifically in relation to price
adjustment made in most major energy sources. Finally, in the New Government
Program of September 1980, energy was placed-as the sector of first priority
with regard to both public investment and policy formulation. To assist in
the elaboration of a sector wide view of energy issues, the Government and the
Bank will make a joint review of the sector during 1981. Against this
background therefore, the following actions and/or intentions represent the
current phase of execution of the Government's general energy policy.
21.      Energy Pricing:  The Government continues to follow a policy of
pricing energy resources at levels which broadly reflect the cost of these
resources in international terms. While there are some minor exceptions to
this rule, this has meant that, over the last two years, several adjustment
have had to be made to domestic energy prices to keep pace with both local
inflation and world price changes. These adjustments continue, and changes
will be made as the need arises.
22.      For petroleum products adjustments were made in December 1980 for the
full range of products.
23.      Organizational Changes:  The intensification of energy policy in
recent years has called for the need for a strengthening of certain public
agencies in the energy sector to make them more effective agents of this
policy. Three such instances which are worthy of mention are-the following;
(a) TPAO: A proposal is being developed to reorganize the management
structure of TPAO into five operating companies:
-   for exploration and exploitation; for refining; for
pipelines; for marketing and distribution; and for
petrochemicals. TPAO will be a holding company. Each
*       operating company will have an independent budget.  Among
other things this is intended to improve the overall



-~ 86 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 17
Attachment
Page 7 of 15
efficiency of TPAO operations and to insure that emergency
budgetary demands in one area of operation (e.g. the need to
finance crude oil import price increases) will not interfere
with the ongoing work in the other areas (e.g. exploration).
(b) TKI: A draft bill is under preparation to provide for a
redefinition of TKI responsibilities. Under the new bill TKI
will be responsible for running only the large lignite mines
supplying fuel for industrial users and power generation. TKI
will supply domestic users with lignite only in cases where these
users are in close proximity to the large mines. All other
domestic users (and specifically those in remote areas) will
generally be supplied by private companies operating smaller
mines. Part of the objective here is to develop greater regional
balance in the production and consumption of lignite. The
divestiture of responsibility for supplying private users,
together with the divestiture of the smaller lignite operators
which - at controlled prices - were running at a loss, will
reduce the need for subsidies to TKI and narrow its management
responsibilities to the main area of its operations.
(c) TEK: A draft bill is nearly finalized which provides for a
transformation of the system of electricity distribution
throughout Turkey. Under the law several autonomous companies
will be formed - to operate under TEK as a holding company - with
the responsibility for taking over from the municipalities the
local distribution of power. These companies will be run on a
profitable basis and the intention is that the resources
generated in this way will be used in maintaining and extending
the distribution system.
24.      Oil Exploration:  Several decrees were issued during 1980 designed to
encourage private - both Turkish and foreign - companies to engage in
exploration activities. These decrees contain statements of operating
procedures and certain guarantees to companies, an important one of which is
to guarantee 35 percent of oil production as company equity free to be
exported. After recent visits of eight foreign companies to discuss
exploration possibilities, certain issues - principally relating to taxation -
are currently being reviewed and clarified.
25.      Hard Coal Development:  In 1977 the Ministry of Energy and Natural
Resources (MENR), in conjunction with the Mineral Exploration Agency (MTA)
elaborated a long-term exploration and verification program for hard coal and
lignite. This program was severely interrupted by the financial crisis since
that year. In 1980 the program was revised and has now been given priority in
the exploration budget over other mineral exploration. In the field of hlard
coal - where a large number of drillings are needed to verify deposits in the



- 87 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 17
Attachment
Page 8 of 15
Zonguldak region - the issue is urgent since by about 1985 the demand for hard
coal will imply some $400 million in annual imports if domestic production is
not expanded. This program, however, cannot be fully implemented without
external assistance to procure new drilling equipment and spare parts.
26.      Conservation:  In addition to setting prices at levels which will
tend to encourage cost effective use of energy resources, the Government also
acknowledges the need for a supplementary conservation program to minimize low
value uses of energy. A draft law has been prepared which will create a new
unit within the MENR - the Energy Survey Administration - under which all
energy conservation activities, energy audits, enforcement, etc., will be
centralized.
Agriculture
27.      Agriculture continues to be our largest single source of commodity
exports. Even under the adverse economic conditions of recent years, with
shortages of inputs and credit, curtailment of farmer support services and
generally unfavorable domestic terms of trade, agricultural exports reached
record levels. Nevertheless, we recognize that our agricultural performance
can be substantially improved because of considerable unused potential in both
production and exports, both in the near and in the long-term. Through our
Economic Stabilization Program of January 1980 and subsequent measures we have
given greater emphasis to the agricultural sector. Our recently approved
Investment Budget for 1981 reflects this and shows a marked reversal of the
previously sharp decline in agriculture's share of total public investments.
The New Government Program of September 1980 reiterates the importance of the
sector and outlines significant policy and organization initiatives. Against
this background, we wish to highlight the following actions taken to increase
production and exports and note our intentions in regard to future policy
measures.
28.      Institutional Reform:  The Government recognizes the need for
increasing the effectiveness of public programs in agriculture through a
reorganization and consolidation of responsibilities in the sector and
particularly within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.  A Committee
working within the Ministry has completed a study of alternative forms of
organization and the various agencies which intervene in or provide services
to the agricultural sector. The fundamental objective of the planned
reorganization is to streamline and improve delivery of agricultural extension
and related support services to agricultural producers. Decisions on the
Committee's recommendations, which are likely to entail Cabinet action and
possibly even legislative changes, will be made in the following months,
though implementation of the decisions may be spread over a longer period.



- 88 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 17
Attachment
Page 9 of 15
29.      Export Policies:  In recent months we have taken major new steps to
encourage the export of agricultural produce, improve its quality and further
diversify the commodity composition of our agricultural exports. These
initiatives include new financial incentives for exporters as well as direct
actions on the production side.
(a) Financial Incentives: Agricultural exporters are expected to
comprise the largest group of beneficiaries under the export tax
credit and revised pre-financing schemes noted in the section on
macroeconomic policies above. Our export credit facility has
been revised so that both producers and traders can now benefit
from it. Finally, to capitalize on our comparative advantage in
off-season fruit and vegetables exports we have taken measure to
break major bottlenecks in this area. Substantial intefest rate
reductions have been decreed on loans to qualified investors in
cold stores and containerized cold fleets, both for their
investment credit needs and for their working capital
requirements.
(b) Production: To improve the quality of our tobacco production and
hence its competitive position in export markets, the Monopolies
Administration has instituted area allotments and delivery
ceilings for tobacco growers and discontinued the provision of
advance payments for procurement that previously resulted in
cultivation of higher yields to the detriment of quality. We
have also introduced a fallow supression program, principally in
wheat-growing areas, through the introduction of lentils and
other leguminous crops in rotation with wheat. There is a
special project which will prevent the early slaughtering of
lambs in order to enhance meat production.
30.      Import Substitution:  We are importing soybeans to produce feed
concentrates and to encourage their production in lieu of sunflower which
competes with wheat for the same land resources; in this way we hope to
gradually phase out imports of vegetable oils and feed concentrates while
improving our fattening ratios.
31.      Price Policies- Continuing our policy of relying on price signals to
regulate decisions in the agricultural sector, we have made estimates of the
input and product price relationships for 1980-81 crops and will institute
annual changes in support prices so as to maintain incentives for increased
production taking into account also the need to maintain our competitive
position in export markets. The mechanism for determining support prices for
1980-81 has been improved in that a coordinated price analysis was carried out
to determine the support price levels for wheat, sugarbeet and oilseeds, which
compete for the same productive resources and are important items in our,.



- 89 -
ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 17
Attachment
Page 10 of 15
export and import substitution strategies. The administration of support
prices has also been made more responsive to special conditions as was shown
in the case of sugarbeet and wheat.
32.      Input Subsidies:  On the side of input prices, the very large
increases in fertilizer prices made in January 1980 were supplemented by an
additional increase of 25 percent, on average, in September 1980. These
actions have eliminated much of the previous high degree of subsidy, cutting
down the wasteful use of fertilizer. It is the intention of the Government to
remove all fertilizer subsidies within five years. However, further
reductions of input subsidies are not foreseen for the moment, in order to
give farmers time to adjust to the imposition of the 5 percent sales tax on
marketed production, and to encourage increased fertilizer production from
existing domestic capacity which will reduce the import requirement for
finished fertilizers.
33.      Irrigation Charges:  For 1981 we have decided to levy the full cost
of operating and maintaining DSI irrigation schemes. We will also make a
special effort to increase the rate of timely collection of these charges.
34.      On-farm Irrigation Works:  To accelerate development of on-farm
irrigation and drainage works which now have accumulated to a backlog of more
than 500,000 hectares in DSI schemes, we intend, as a matter of principle, to
introduce investment cost recovery charges for works carried out by TOPRAKSU
to encourage the use of private contractors thereby relieving the pressure on
TOPRAKSU, which now undertakes all of these works on force account and free of
charge with insufficient resources.
C. STATE ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES
35.      Government policy since January 1980 has attached particular emphasis
to the reform of State Economic Enterprises (SEEs). After the important
cbanges in economic philosophy and the initial measures in January 1980, an
overall framework for the reform was decided in December 1980 and further
important actions taken. The report of an official committee chaired by the
Ministry of Industry was submitted in December to the Council of Ministers,
which after an initial review has appointed a sub-committee of Ministers to
prepare final recommendations to the Government on the organization of the
sector. The Council of Ministers decided in February 1981 to implement in
parallel a series of reforms of the objectives, management and other aspects
of SEE performance. There is a sense of urgency about SEE reforms at all
levels of the Government.
dw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 90 -
ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 17
Attachment
Page 11 of 15
Objectives
36.      The Government has committed itself to reform the SEEs with a view to
achieving several important objectives and according to a number of generally
agreed principles as follows:
4
(a) SEE objectives should be mainly financial and economic, including
in particular specific efforts to increase productivity at the
plant level;
(b) Depoliticization of Government-SEE relations, management
selection and behavior;
(c) Sector organization changes, if required for greater efficiency;
(d) Reduction or elimination of the-drain on public funds;
(e) Increasing subjection to market forces;
(f) Improvement of management:
- selection on merit,
- continuity in office subject only to satisfactory performance,
- pay which is competitive and performance-related;
(g) Reduction of overstaffing;
(h) Delegation of authority from Ministers and Boards to managers and
operating units;
(i) Improvement of the quality of investments; and
(j) Labor force:
- sufficiently competitive pay for technical staff,
- elimination of negative inter-union competition.
Actions Taken
37.      The Government has shown the seriousness of its commitment to reform
both by the action taken in January 1980 and by the important new actions
taken within a very short time of its overall reform decision last December.
38.      We took the first major step in January 1980, when the SEEs were
freed to set their own prices according to market conditions, with the
financial objective of covering their operating costs. This policy has
achieved F considerable measure of success in limiting the drain of SEEs on
public funds. We have reaffirmed this pricing policy for 1981, with the --
refinement that we now urge SEEs to make individually smaller and more timely
price adjustments than in 1980.



- 91 -
ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 17
Attachment
Page 12 of 15
39.      The SEEs have been subjected increasingly to market forces since
January 1980. Their position has been brought much closer to that of private
sector firms. Pricing freedom has brought them face-to-face with the
possibility of limited consumer demand, and in some cases competition from the
domestic private sector, at the prices they wish to charge. The progressive
reform of the protection system is exposing them to increasing competition
from abroad. The realistic exchange rate has made them aware of the real cost
of importing.
40.      We have also increased the cost and reduced the availability of the
soft funds to which SEEs enjoyed easy access in the past. The 1981 Program
decree for SEEs already issued cuts off all SEEs from their previous direct
access to the Central Bank, except for two export-oriented agricultural
purchasing ones; the interest rate the latter pays was raised somewhat in July
1980. Other SEEs must seek short-term funding from commercial banks on the
same terms as private firms, which has substantially increased their cost of
capital. Foreign exchange loans contracted by the Government will be made
available to operational SEEs only through the State Investment Bank (DYB).
This fiscal year, loans for investment will be made to SEEs from the budget
only through DYB, if the SEE is profitable; DYB increased its interest rate
from 14 percent to 21.5 percent in 1980, and in 1981 is expected to adopt
market-related interest rates already done by private commercial and
development banks. Loss-making SEEs will continue to receive loans directly-
from the budget, which will avoid compromising DYB's financial standing, but
from 1981 this will occur only after DYB scrutiny of the project, and under
DYB supervision during implementation.
41.      The problem of overstaffing in the SEEs is at the root of many other
problems. It can only be solved over several years, through attrition and
through the creation of new productive job opportunities in the economy. We
have taken the strongest steps possible within this constraint to deal with
the problem in 1981. By decree we have frozen the number and structure of
positions for existing operations in each SEE at their level as of
November 30, 1980. New factories opened by a SEE must first draw on existing
staff of that SEE, and in any case new hiring may not exceed 50 percent of the
normal complement for the plant. SEEs may not apply to the Ministry of
Finance for new positions as in previous years. Vacant posts-can only be
filled with the permission of the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, in 10 SEEs
accounting for 44 percent of total SEE employment in 1980, 50 percent of the
positions becoming vacant through resignations, retirements or deaths are
automatically being cancelled. Finally, early retirement has been facilitated
by a decree setting rates of severance pay. Some 40 percent of the present
labor force of SEEs is eligible for retirement in the next five years.
42.      m4any of the problems of individual SEEs can only be solved through
investment.  The quality of the SEEs' investment programs has been
considerably improved through the increased rationalization of the public
investment program in 1981; many uneconomic or low-priority investment



- 92 -
ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 17
Attachment
Page 13 of 15
projects have been dropped. Rehabilitation projects are being emphasized in a
number of industries. The program is currently under review by the Bank as
already noted. To help SEEs prepare future projects, we have allocated $10
million equivalent in the 1981 budget for them to hire consultants.
Studies Underway
43.      The State Personnel Department is currently studying all aspects of
the uncompetitive compensation of SEE managers. The tax reform package has
somewhat alleviated the situation, since it provides a larger percentage
increase in net-of-tax pay for the public sector than for the private sector,
which enjoys untaxed fringe benefits. Nevertheless, we envisage initially a
substantial increase in salary supplements for a limited number of key
management posts, mostly in SEEs.
44.      To permit SEEs to borrow commercially on an increasing scale in
future, we are studying how to strengthen their capital structure through a
progressive infusion of equity.
Decisions Taken in February 1981
45.      The Council of Ministers has recently decided in principle to
implement a further series of important reforms quickly and without waiting
for final recommendations on the reorganization of the SEE sector.
46.      The Government will draw up a list of simple, realistic and
monitorable objectives for SEEs and instruct the SEEs to work towards them.
The High Control Board will be instructed to institute an interim system of
monitoring of the economic, financial and efficiency performance of all SEEs
starting in 1981.  This will be based initially on unit costs and capacity
utilization and later will include additional criteria decided by the
Government in light of the High Control Board's recommendations.
47.      The Government will enhance the autonomy of SEEs as much as possible,
without changing existing laws now, by explicitly transferring authority to
them.  The Boards of SEEs will be instructed to focus on policy-making, and to
delegate authority and responsibility for day-to-day running of the SEEs to
their managers and operating units to the extent permitted by existing law;
proposals will be approved for legal changes as required to fully achieve this
objective. Managers will be informed in writing that they, not the
Government, are responsible for the SEEs.
48.      SEE managers' pay will no longer be subject to the provisions of the
State Personnel Law; instead they will be offered contracts, initially for one
year given present legal limitations, but with informal assurances of renewal
given satisfactory performance; proposals will be approved for legal changTes



- 93 -
ANNEX IV
Page 16 of 17
Attachment
Page 14 of 15
to permit multi-year contracts. The change to contractual status will lead to
a large increase in managers' net-of-tax pay which, taken together with the
impact of the tax reforms, will bring it to significantly more competitive
levels. SEEs are being requested to inform the Government of their needs for
additional contractual personnel.
49.      SEEs will be instructed to review their financial position and other
resources and inform the Government how many investment projects they can
implement properly at the same time. If their current program exceeds this
number, the State Planning Organization and the Government will decide in
light of the SEE's recommendation which ones are to proceed.
Actions to be Taken
50.      The Government's future reform work will thus move on two parallel
tracks:
(a) Reforms of individual aspects of the SEE system that are both
urgent and achievable (without prejudicing reform of the
structure), which have been decided by the Council of Ministers
in February 1981 as discussed above. It is intended that these
should be implemented by the end of September 1981;
(b) Reform of the whole structure of the SEE system, which will be
complicated and will take some time. This involves the
reorganization of the SEE sector; the relations of the SEEs with
the Government as a whole, the Ministers administratively
responsible, the State Planning Organization and DYB; their
ultimate degree of autonomy especially with respect to
investment, credit wages and employment policies; and permanent
new systems of audit and inspection to ensure their
accountability to the nation. Since the vital problem of the
selection/dismissal process for SEE managers is intimately bound
up with these general questions of SEE arrangements, it will only
be settled in the same timeframe. The Government intends to
implement significant reforms in this whole area by the end of
1981. The Government also intends to continue to encourage SEEs
A                          to introduce more and better cost accounting and other modern
management information and control systems to permit better
management of their operations.
51.      The Government intends to encourage manufacturing SEEs to adopt
pricing formulae which more closely reflect unit costs with efficient
operation at higher levels of capacity utilization, and which also take
account o& both the domestic market situation and the need to increase
international competitiveness. However, these considerations will have to be
matched with the need to preserve their new capital structure as it is



-94 -
ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 17
Attachment
Page 15 of 15
strengthened, service increased borrowing on market terms, avoid arrears, and
contribute towards the financing of their own investments, all of which
suggest the need to go beyond covering operating costs to achieve a
progressively increasing rate of return on assets.
52.      In addition, the SEEs have been encouraged to propose solutions to
their individual problems which can be arrived at within the existing systen,
and organization. These will include specific suggestions for balancing and
modernization investments at the plant level, and recourse to technical
advisory services as necessary, with a view to achieving both the general
objectives referred to in paragraph 46 above and specified financial and
productivity targets for individual units.
53.      The Government expects most of the new system to be in place by the
end of 1981, but it is aware that the full benefits of such fundamental
reforms in terms of increased SEE efficiency will only be reaped progressively
over several years.
dw



- 95 -
ANNEX V
Use of Fund Resources: Turkey
(In millions of SDRs)
Gross Credit Drawings                                                 4/  Undrawn Balance
Compensatory              Regular    Trust                 2/            Net      of Agreed
and Buffer       Oil    Stand-Bys    Fund        1/  Repay-       3/  Credit    Stand-By or
A              Stock Drawings  Facility  and EFFs Borrowing Total  ments  Charges Drawings           EFF 5/
1973
1974
1975        37.8       169.8                         207.6               5.7    207.6
1976       37.8         91.5                         129.2              17.8    129.2
1977                                                                    22.5
1978       74.5                     90.0             164.5      24.8   25.9    139.7
1979                                70.0              70.0      68.6   28.6       1.4
1980       71.6                    420.0             491.6    119.2   39.4    372.4
1981                               400.0 6/          400.0 6/  91.0  127.4
1982                               400.0 6/          400.0 6/ 116.4  154.0
1983                               190.0 6/          190.0 6/ 166.3  188.2
1984                                                           210.8  176.7
1985                                                           250.9  149.1
1986                                                           318.8  111.3
1987                                                           295.0   67.3
1988                                                           222.5   31.4
1989                                                           122.5    9.4
1990                                                            23.8    0.6
1/  Use of Fund Credit (regular stand-by drawings, EFF drawings, oil facility drawings,
compensatory facility drawings; and buffer stock drawings) plus Trust Fund borrowing.
2/ Repayments through Repurchase and Repayments of Trust Fund borrowing.
3/ Interest on Credit Drawings and on Trust Fund borrowing.
4/ 1 - 2.
ol Undrawn balance of stand-by or EFF agreement with statement of remaining period of
agreement.
6/ Projected.



IUBRIO 11656
_____                                                                                 Mo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ieuRdinzire 
-  Finilse~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
N'/if?        n    y
Akaehir
a~~  Mditrrnea                       Sa                                                                 TANPQRATQPdemisMJP
onya                                                                 Ft~~~PPUAIQ  NTR
Denizl  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
~~~~QLAN~~~~~~~~~~~~Hkkr
Main roads          r'uI A                                             I~~~~~~~~~Mesi
Provinciol, bounaris                            oqRc'Q Q'-
00      200     300                                                                                                                          '
30.                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CYiR~



