CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1987 TU
Loan Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 15, 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1987 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1981 between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated Febru-
ary 20, 1981 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve a structural adjust-
ment of the Borrower's economy, declaring the Borrower's commit-
ment to the execution of that program, and requesting assistance
from the Bank in the financing of urgent imports to be made during
the execution of such program; and
(B) the Bank has decided in support of such program to
provide assistanze to the Borrower by making the loan as herein-
after provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions), namely, that Section 2.01 No. 11 shall read:
"The term Project means the activities that may
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant
to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Lt" and "Lira" mean the currency of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Account" means the account established in
T.C. Merkez Bankasi pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(c) "T.C. Merkez Bankasi" means TUrkiye Cumhuriyet Merkez
Bankasi, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey established
and operating pursuant to Law No. 1211 promulgated in the Official
Gazette of the Republic of Turkey No. 13409 of January 26, 1970 as
amended;
(d) "SEE" means a State Economic Enterprise, or a corpora-
tion, enterprise or entity, 50% or more of whose capital is owned
or controlled by the Borrower or any of its administrative sub-
divisions, agencies or instrumentalities; and
(e) "Private Sector Firm" means a firm, corporation, part-
nership or any other manufacturing entity 50% or more of whose
capital is owned or controlled by persons or entities other than
the Borrower, its administrative subdivisions, agencies or instru-
mentalities, including SEEs.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of the imported goods included in
such Schedule.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) T.C. Merkez Bankasi is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the f regoing,
the Borrower shall entrust T.C. Merkez Bankasi with respo sibilitk
for the coordination and collection of relevant documentation, and
the preparation of withdrawal applications, under the Loan, which
withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be con-
solidated so as to provide for withdrawal of at least $25,000
equivalent. Each such withdrawal application shall be submitted to
the Bank with a statement of the cumulative amount claimed for
withdrawal from the Loan Account on account of expenditures made
or to be made by Private Sector Firms under such application and
all earlier applications submitted to the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall open an account (the
Project Account) with T.C. Merke;z Bankasi and shall deposit in
said account in accordance with its usual financial procedures,
upon each withdrawal from the Loan Account, the equivalent in
Liras of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan
Account (such equivalent to be determined as of the respective


﻿date of such withdrawals). The amounts so deposited in the Project
Account shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures included
in the Borrower's development programs.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) promptly upon receipt of appropriate applications from
potential importers: (i) determine their eligibility under
the Loan; and (ii) issue, or cause to be issued to eligible
importers such import licenses as shall be required for the
importation of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan;
(b) make available, or cause to be made available, to the
licensed importers promptly as needed, such amounts of foreign
exchange as shall be required to import goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(c) take all such action as shall be necessary to facilitate
the timely importation of goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes that adequate provision
will be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair
such goods.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Bank shall from tima to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the program referred to in
paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement and the measures
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any


﻿-5-
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including assets held by T.C. Merkez Bankasi or
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that records shall
be kept to register all expenditures financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan in accordance with sound accounting practices con-
sistently applied.
Section 3.07. Upon the award of any contract for goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a
description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom
the contract was awarded and the contract price.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, tiie following additional event is specified pursuant


﻿-6-
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that an event has occurred which
shall make it improbable that the program or a significant part of
the program referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement will be
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date August 17, 1981, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel
Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
MALIYE
Hazine
Ankara
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Tevfik Altinok
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported commod-
ity groups to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                   Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Agriculture                                     200,000,000
Materials for produc-
tion of fertilizers
except petroleum and
petroleum products
(2) Industry                                        100,000,000
Raw materials and
intermediate goods
except petroleum and
petroleum products
TOTAL            300,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a) No withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(i) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of
the Borrower;
(ii) payments made prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $30,000,000 may be made
on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after April 1, 1981;


﻿-9-
(iii) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture,, procurement or supply
thereof; and
(iv) expenditures for goods procured under invoicps for
less than $5,000 equivalent.
(b) No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall
be entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in
respect of expenditures to be financed under this Agreement after
the aggregate amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
and the amount of commitments entered into by the Bank upon the
Borrower's request in respect of expenditures to be financed under
the Loan would exceed the equivalent of $200,000,000,, unless the
Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement with the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the measures described in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, if the Bank has rea-
sonably estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to
any Category will be insufficient to finance the expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate
to the respective Category, to the extent required to meet such
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures.
4. If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of ouch expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 1986
Through   January 15, 1998                    11,540,000
On July 15, 1998                               11,500,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 11 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.70%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            3.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     6.20%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                     8.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                     9.60%


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 3 thereof, goods to be
imported under a single contract estimated to cost $10,000,000
equivalent or more, shall be procured through limited interna-
tional tendering on the basis of at least three responsive quota-
tions from suppliers from the member countries of the Bank and
Switzerland or from Taiwan.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $10,000,000 shall be awarded through normal
trade channels on the basis of the procurement procedures of
the purchaser of such goods.
3.   Contracts for commonly traded commodities may be awarded on
the basis of price quotations available from organized inter-
national commodity markets.
4.   With respect to each contract costing $250,000 equivalent
or more, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract; in raspect of contracts
referred to in paragraph 1 of this   Schedule, the Bank shall, in
addition, be furnished with, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed, an appropraite analysi- of the
respective bids and recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 4
Review with respect to
Schedule 1, paragraph 2 (b)
The Borrower and the Bank shall review:
1.   The adequacy of policies and legislative and administrative
measures for export promotion, import liberalization and domestic
resource mobilization, in particular with respect to tax reforms:
(a) progress in enacting a law providing for a value added
tax to be introduced during the Borrower's fiscal year 1982;
and (b) progress in establishing adequate procedures for tax
collection, especially with respect to personal and corporate
income and agricultural sales tax.
2.   The adequacy of progress in reforms of State Economic Enter-
prises, in particular (a) by September 30, 1981, (i) carrying out
the reforms decided in principle by the Council of Ministers
in February 1981, and (ii) decision of the Council of Ministers
of legal changes permitting greater delegation of authority
within SEEs and multi-year contracts for their managers; and
(b) carrying out the decree No. 8/2022, dated November 29,
1980, with respect to the number of authorized positions and
new hiring. Progress will be reviewed inter alia by examining
the implementation in selected SEEs of the measures referred
to under (a) (i) and (b) hereof.
3.   The adequacy of energy policies, in particular pricing of
petroleum products at levels comparable to international market
prices.


