Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H499-LA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 9, 2009 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated September 9, 2009, entered into between 
LAO PEOPLE’S 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Recipient has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I A of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
twelve million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,900,000) 
(“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 1and October 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consist of the following: a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
23 Singha Road 
Nongbone Village 
Saysettha District 
Vientiane, Lao PDR 
Page  4
3
Facsimile: 856-21-412142 
 
6.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Vientiane, Lao PDR, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
By: /s/ Viengthong Siphandone 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: /s/ Annette Dixon 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Recipient has submitted for approval to the National Assembly a Law on 
Promotion of Investment, consistent with the Law on Enterprise on November 
15, 2008. 
 
2. 
The MOIC, the MOF, and related agencies of the Recipient have prepared a 
detailed draft Trade Facilitation Master Plan, including the action plan to 
implement such master plan. 
 
3. 
The Bank of Lao PDR has prepared and submitted to the 
Prime Minister’s 
Office, for consideration, a financial sector strategy on February 23, 2009. 
 
4. 
The MOF, in collaboration with the MOH, the MOE, and Lao PDR’s seventeen 
(17) provinces, has approved a new revenue sharing formula and aggregate 
budget allocation norms to guide preparation of FY2009/10 budget on May 18, 
2009, and finalized a strategy and implementation plan for developing a sector 
budget norm-based revenue sharing system for implementation from the 
FY2010/11 budget on February 15, 2009. 
 
5. 
The MOF has adopted the Treasury Single Account Framework by consolidating 
all revenue accounts into National Treasury managed accounts on June 2, 2008 
and has started implementation of such framework immediately thereafter.
 
6. 
The SAO has approved an audit strengthening plan based on the Audit Peer 
Review on April 28, 2009. 
 
7. 
The MOE has presented an annual work plan to the Education Sector Working 
Group, including costs and priorities, identifying resources needed in FY2009/10 
budget on April 23, 2009. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. No withdrawal shall be 
made unless the Association is satisfied, as of the date of the request for such 
Page  7
6
withdrawal: (a) with the Recipient’s progress in carrying out the Program; and 
(b) that the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework is appropriate. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Single Tranche 
12,900,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
12,900,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
(a) 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
(b) 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of Paragraph 1 (a) of this Section C, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and 
thereafter maintain a deposit account in Dollars at the Bank of Lao PDR 
designated by the Recipient and on terms and conditions satisfactory and 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall confirm to the Association:  
 
(a) 
the name and number of the bank account mentioned in paragraph 1(a) 
above; 
 
(b) 
the foreign currency amount received in the designated deposit account 
referred to above; 
 
(c) 
the foreign currency amounts withdrawn from the said designated 
deposit account at the Bank of Lao PDR, and the equivalent amounts 
credited in local currency to the Central Treasury Account to finance 
budgeted expenditures; and  
 
Page  8
7
(d) 
the date and name, and/or  number of the Central Treasury Account to 
finance budgeted expenditures to which the amounts withdrawn from the 
Financing Account have been credited. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 31, 2010. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Audit Peer Review” means the report dated December 22, 2008 issued by the 
Auditor General of New Zealand. 
 
2. 
“Bank of Lao PDR” means the Recipient’s central bank, or any successor thereto. 
 
3. 
“Education Sector Working Group” means the Recipient’s working group on 
education chaired by MOE and co-chaired by the Australia International 
Development Assistance and the United Nations Children's Fund which is 
assessing donor support to the education sector and aid coordination among 
development partners. 
 
4. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
Page  10
9
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
 
6. 
“Government” means the government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic. 
 
7. 
 “Law on Enterprise” means the Law on Enterprise approved by the National 
Assembly on November 9, 2005  and promulgated through Decree of the 
President No. 29/PO of December 9, 2005. 
 
Page  11
10 
 
8. 
“Law on Promotion of Investment” means the draft law which aims to promote 
foreign and domestic investment in Lao People’s Democratic Republic. 
 
9. 
“Minister of Finance” means the Recipient’s Minister of Finance, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“MOE” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Education, or any successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“MOIC” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Industry and Commerce, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
12. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“MOH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health, or any successor thereto. 
 
14. 
“National Assembly” means the Lao People’s Democratic Republic national 
representative body having supreme legislative powers. 
 
15. 
“National Treasury” means the National Treasury within the Ministry of Finance 
or any successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated July 8, 2009, from the Recipient to the Association 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
17. 
“SAO” means the State Audit Organization, or any successor thereto. 
 
18. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
19. 
“Trade Facilitation Master Plan” means the Recipient’s draft strategic trade 
facilitation plan dated April 6, 2009. 
 
20. 
“Treasury Single Account” means the system by which government’s bank 
accounts are consolidated and controlled by the National Treasury. 
 
21. 
“Treasury Single Account Framework” means the Recipient’s framework which 
provides adequate control to the Treasury to monitor revenues and execute 
expenditures nationally
.
Page  12
11 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
Page  13
12 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
(a) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.
”
Page  14
13 
 
