Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB4302 
Operation Name 
Lao PDR 
–
Proposed Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Operation 
(PRSO 5) 
Region 
East Asia and Pacific Region 
Sector 
Central government administration (52%); Health (12%); Power 
(12%); Banking (12%) General education sector (12%) 
Project ID 
P110109 
Borrower 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
November 11, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 17, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 25, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
For the past two decades, the Lao PDR has committed to a path of structural shift from a planned to a 
market-oriented economy and a strategy conducive to poverty reduction.  These commitments have 
been reinforced in a series of National Socio-Economic Development Plans (NSEDP) and in its first 
Poverty Reduction Strategy entitled National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES).  The 
NGPES established the framework for a series of structural reforms while the NSEDP for 2006-10 
articulates further the Government’s commitment to poverty reduction.  The framework for structural 
reforms identifies key development issues and challenges in sustained growth through private sector 
development, improvement of the investment climate and facilitation of trade, strengthening the public 
sector’s financial management and building efficient public service delivery capacities in order to 
improve social outcomes. 
 
The World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Lao PDR, endorsed by the Executive 
Directors on May 4, 2007, builds on the NGPES/NSEDP, with the PRSO program being central part of 
this strategy to support the Government in addressing the above development issues and challenges: (i) 
sustain growth through improved management of key drivers – regional integration and private sector 
development, rural development, and natural resource management; (ii) improve social outcomes and 
reduce vulnerability through strengthened public financial management and service delivery capacities 
and targeted poverty reduction programs; (iii) adopt a strategic approach to capacity development and 
partnership in support of better NSEDP results; and (iv) support implementation of Nam Theun 2. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
PRSO 5 aims to support the Government’s priorities as outlined in its NGPES, namely, (i) sustaining 
growth; and (ii) improving social outcomes.  PRSO 5 will contribute to the achievement of these 
objectives through improving management of key areas (regional integration, private sector 
development, trade facilitation, and quality of investment in natural resource sector) and through 
strengthening of public financial management and service delivery capacities and targeted poverty 
reduction programs.  The PRSO policy reform program is supported by complementary technical 
assistance from the World Bank and other development partners in order to ensure that the 
Government receives comprehensive policy and implementing support for executing its reform 
Page  2
Lao PDR 
–
PRSO 5 – Draft Concept Stage PID 
2
program effectively.  The European Commission, Japan and Australia will also provide parallel 
financing to the Government within the PRSO 5 framework. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed PRSO 5 is the second operation of the second PRSO series (PRSO 4-7) to support the 
implementation of Lao PDR’s Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) which is articulated in the Sixth 
NSEDP.  PRSO 5 seeks to develop and implement policies that ensure more resources become 
available through sustained growth and revenue mobilization in the medium term, and that these 
resources are efficiently and effectively used for poverty reduction strategy.  These include a strong 
platform for programmatic policy reform, an appropriate legislative and institutional framework 
(especially in the public finance management framework), strengthened capacity of government, and 
helped put in place a robust foundation of these reforms.  The operation focuses on two broad policy 
areas consistent with the goals and strategies identified by the Government in its PRS, and reflected in 
the CAS in the following way: (i) Sustainable growth; and (ii) Public resource management and public 
expenditure management.  Progress in these policy areas would enable the maintenance of good 
macroeconomic performance and continued progress with poverty reduction.  As programmatic budget 
support, the PRSO program will contribute to funding predictability, and the associated dialogue 
between the Government and donors will ensure sensible policy prioritization and good donor 
coordination.   
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The environmental impacts of this operation are not expected to be significant.  However, certain 
environmental impacts might arise since the PRSO series supports a wide range of policy areas and 
interventions.  While some PRSO supported actions may have potential environmental implications 
(such as SOE restructuring), given that SOE sector is small, and impacts will be low (the program only 
covers nine enterprises directly, and no massive lay-offs or construction are envisioned).  While trade 
liberalization may potentially have an impact on the environment, this operation covers only first steps 
and regulatory reform aimed directly at easing cross-border movements of goods, rather than at major 
trade reforms.  In fact, the investment climate improvement program would not touch upon 
environmentally-sensitive sectors, such as forestry or mining since these sectors are regulated by 
separate legislation. The impacts therefore are expected to be low.  
 
PRSO 5 continues to support policy and institutional reform in natural resources management. 
Regarding infrastructure, the PRSO program provides support to EdL to implement the Action Plan for 
the Financial Sustainability of the Power Sector. Since the major source of power comes from 
hydropower with potentially high environment and social impacts, the government is working toward 
ensuring compliance with environmental and social safeguards.  Support from international partners is 
available through the Nam Theun 2 (NT2) Hydroelectric Project, Nam Theun Social and Environment 
Project, and the Lao Environment and Social Project.  In the context of NT2, the Government has 
enacted the National Policy on Environmental and Social Sustainability of the Hydropower Sector to 
ensure that future development of the hydropower projects complies with environment and social 
safeguards. 
Page  3
Lao PDR 
–
PRSO 5 – Draft Concept Stage PID 
3
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
  0 
IDA Grant 
10 
Cofinanciers TBD 
 
Total TBD 
Note:  TBD:  To be determined. 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact:  
Saiyed Shabih Ali Mohib 
Title:    
Senior Economist 
Tel:  
 
5778+8356 / 66-2-686-8356 
Fax:  
 
5778+8301 / 66-2-686-8301 
Email:   
smohib@worldbank.org 
Location:  
Bangkok, Thailand (IBRD) 
 
