RESTRICTED
FILEf  COPY IReport No. P-646
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DElVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE
IN MOROCCO
October 16, 1968






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
ECONOMIQUE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US$ 15 million to the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Econom-
ique (BNDE) in Morocco.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        BNDE was established under Government sponsorship in 1959
with the participation of local and foreign private investors.
The Bank's association with it dates from December 1962 when the
Bank's first loan in Morocco amounting to $15 million was made to
BNDE. Concurrently, BNDE increased its share capital in which IFC
took a $1.5 million participation (25%). At present the remainder
of the equity is held by the Government (43%), Moroccan investors
(15%) and foreign investors (17%). A second Bank loan of $17.5
million was made in May 1966. BNDE has now utilized the full
amount of the 1966 loan. In July 1967, BNDE requested a third Bank
loan in an amount to be determined, and an appraisal mission visited
BNDE in October 1967. Preliminary discussions on the proposed loan
were held in Rabat in February 1968 and negotiations took place in
Washington in May 1968 with Mr. Mohamed Benkirane, Director General
of BNDE.  Full agreement on all aspects of the loan, however, was
reached only in September 1968.
3.        The proposed loan would be the fifth loan in Morocco,  -
where the Bank so far has lent $60 million. Apart from the two
previous loans to BNDE, the Bank financed, in 1964, the Sidi Slimane
agricultural development project ($17.5 million) and, in 1965, the
agricultural credit program of the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole (CNCA) in the amount of $10 million. IDA made a credit of
$31 million in 1965 for the construction and equipment of secondary
schools.
4.        As of September 30, 1968, the status of the four Bank
loans and of the IDA credit was as follows:



-2-
Loan or
Credit
Number      Year           Borrower            Purpose        Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
329        1962             BNDE            Development     15.0      _
Finance
Company
389        1964     Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture       17.5      -       8.4
433        1965             CNCA            Agricultural      9.8     -       5.2
Credit
79        1965     Kingdom of Morocco    Education            -    11.0     10.2
447        1966             BNDE            Development     17.5      -       8.0
Finance
Company
Total (less cancellations)             59.8  11.0
of which has been repaid to Bank      3.7
Total now outstanding                  56.1
Amount sold            1.1
of which has
been repaid          0.0              1.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA         55.0   11.0
Total undisbursed                      21.6  10.2       31.8
5.        Because of departures from the Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments, the Bank on February 19, 1968 suspended disbursements under
one part of Loan 433-MOR for the agricultural credit project and
cancelled the undisbursed balance for the second part, the Closing
Date of which had passed; cQrrective measures were recently agreed
upon by the Government and CNCA and the suspension was lifted on
September 30, 1968. Shortcomings in the implementation of the Sidi
Slimane project (financed under Loan 389-MOR) also developed; the
measures needed to improve implementation have now been undertaken.
Finally, disbursements under the IDA credit for education have been
slower than expected because of delays in construction and procure-
ment and slowness in submitting withdrawal applications; steps to
remedy this situatiQn are under discussion with the Government.



6.        The Bank has informed the Government that in the light of
the progress made in the implementation of the Sidi Slimane project
and in the reorganization of agricultural services (a basic issue
confronting agricultural development in Morocco, which was the sub-
ject of a Bank-sponsored survey in 1967), it would be prepared to
consider financing new agricultural projects. In addition, a Bank
mission visited Morocco in September 1968, to identify projects suit-
able for further Bank/IDA lending in other sectors as well.
7.        IFC has made two investments in Morocco.  In January 1963,
IFC acquired 25% of BNDE's share capital amounting to about $1.5
million. In 1966, IFC made an investment and a loan totalling $1.3
million in Compania Industrial del Lukus (CIL), a company mainly con-
cerned with processing and canning of tomatoes and paprika. IFC and
BNDE shared equally in the financing of this project and each holds
23% of the share capital of CIL.
8.        A Consultative Group for Morocco was organized in 1967 and
met during that year. A second meeting, originally scheduled for late
spring 1968, was postponed at the Government's request; a new date
for the meeting is expected to be fixed soon.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
9.        BORROWER:               Banque Nationale pour le
Developpement Economique (BNDE).
WUARANTOR:              The Kingdom of Morocco.
AMOUNT:                 The equivalent in various
currencies of $15 million.
PURPOSE:                To be used by BNDE for making
loans to, and other investments
in, private industrial and other
productive enterprises in
Morocco to cover the foreign
exchange costs of specific
projects.
AMORTIZATION            In 17 years including a two-
year period of grace, through
semi-annual installments begin-
ning January 15, 1971 and end-
ing July 15, 1985, subject to
change to conform substantially
with the aggregate of the
amortization schedules for the
prQjects for which loan funds are
disbursed.



4--
INTEREST RATE          The rate of interest payable
on each part of the loan
credited to the Loan Account
will be the Bank's standard
rate in effect at the time of
crediting.
COMMITMENT CHARGE:    3/4 of 1 percent per annum on
the undisbursed balance of the
loan.
PART III - THE PROJECT
10.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Banque Nationale pour
le Developpement Economique" (DB-41a, dated October 16, 1968) is
attached.
11.       Industry, handicrafts and mining represent 18 percent of
Morocco's gross domestic product. Industrial growth has been dis-
appointing in recent years for a variety of reasons, especially
the stagnation of agricultural incomes and the departure of large
numbers of foreigners with managerial and technical skills. The
growth of tourism, on the other hand, has been much more rapid
with the number of tourists doubling between 1962 and 1966, although
there was a slight decline in 1967. With its many natural advan-
tages, including good climate and nearness to Europe, Morocco has
excellent prospects of significantly increasing tourism.
12.       BNDE is the largest domestic source of medium- and long-
term lending to industry and tourism in Morocco, contributing
around 30 percent to all investment in these sectors. Its
activities have grown sharply in the past two years. Up to 1965,
the annual volume of direct loans granted averaged about $5 million
equivalent. It has since doubled. Total financial assistance,
including loans, equity investments and rediscounting commitments,
increased from $6 million in 1964 to about $16 million in 1965 and
1966, and $25 million (of which $14 million in rediscounts) in 1967.
13.       While BNDE's business expansion in recent years has been
rapid, there is still room for improvement in the quality of the
projects it is financing.  Despite some progress achieved in the
soundness of its appraisals (even in such sectors as tourism where
BNDE has had to break new ground) these need to become more search-
ing in their attempts to bring to light technical, commercial or
financial weaknesses in individual projects and, sometimes, in
entire sectors, such as textiles, where BNDE has invested heavily.



- 5 -
14.       Financial performance has also lagged behind business
expansion. Net profits and dividends, which in 1967 reached
8.8% and 4% of share capital respectively, remained low. This
is directly ascribable to the narrow spread between the cost to
BNDE of borrowed money and its lending rate. BNDE's lending
rate has been 7% since its creation, in keeping with the Govern-
ment's policy of price stability, and the Government reimburses
BNDE for interest paid on borrowed funds above 5%. This guaranteed
spread of only 2% keeps profits low. The ratio between share
capital ($6 million equivalent) and total medium- and long-term
borrowings outstanding ($27 million at the end of 1967 including
$6 million of subordinated long-term Government loans treated as
quasi-equity) because of its low leverage also limited the return on
share capital.
15.       The above problems of performance and profitability,
together with the various means of solving them, were the chief
issues in the Bank's negotiations with BNDE and the Government.
Agreement was reached on a series of measures which, in due course,
should enable BNDE to overcome the shortcomings mentioned above.
Some of these measures are expected to entail a substantial
strengthening of the role of BNDE's Board, of its management and of
its investment criteria. In addition, in order to increase as
quickly as possible BNDE's leverage and the dividends it can pay -
a first step toward improving the marketability of its shares - it
was agreed to reduce BNDE's share capital from $6 million to $4
million and to make a corresponding increase in the Government long-
term loans to BNDE. Finally, taking into account the Bank's view
that BNDE's financial return should be enhanced, the Government
intends to undertake a survey of the interest rate structure in
Morocco with a view to determining, inter alia, whether an increase
in BNDE's lending rate would have any substantial impact on other
rates and, eventually, on prices.
16.       The several measures that have been agreed upon to
strengthen BNDE should help considerably in allowing the institution
to cope with its rapidly expanding volume of business and provide a
suitable basis for a new loan. Inasmuch as the proposed loan of $15
million will be used in a relatively short period, the opportunity
to review the effectiveness of these measures will come before long.
The early use by BNDE of such an amount is based on the assumption
that BNDE will finance portions of some very large projects presently
under study and that it will continue to lend for tourism until the
loan is committed. For the longer term the Government's policy is
to finance tourism through a specialized credit institution. The
Bank has agreed in principle to consider lending to such an institu-
tion in due course.



-6-
17.       The provisions of the proposed loan follow closely those
now applied to development finance companies. As under the first
two loans to BNDE, projects involving the use of more than $150,000
of Bank funds as well as all equity investments to be financed from
Bank funds will require prior approval by the Bank. In line with
recent practice, a new definition has been introduced for the debt-
equity ratio and it has been raised to 4.5:1, allowing a small
increase in borrowing capacity. In keeping with the policy adopted
by the Executive Directors in 1967 it is proposed to apply the
standard provisions with respect to commitment charge to the new
loan to BNDE.
18.       BNDE can be considered a suitable borrower for a new Bank
loan and should have no difficulty servicing such a loan and its
other borrowings.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
19.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and BNDE, the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. The Agreements are in the
usual form. utilized for loans to development finance companies.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
20.       An economic report entitled "Recent Performance and
Development in Morocco" and dated October 15, 1968, (NAU-5b) is being
distributed to the Executive Directors.
21.       Morocco has shown a remarkable price stability in recent
years as a result of restrictive financial policies and of low
domestic demand due to two poor agricultural crops. The growth of
the economy has been, on the other hand, rather disappointing:
between 1963 and 1967 the GDP increased by about 2 percent per annum
in real terms, which is less than the annual rate of growth of the
population. Investments have been too low to initiate the desired
transformation of the economy; moreover, economic growth has also
been held back by the shortage of qualified manpower and the slow
rate of change in agriculture where under-employment is widespread.
22.       At the beginning of 1968 Morocco launched a five-year
development plan which calls for an increase of 50 percent in Gover-
ment investment expenditure and a higher growth rate of the economy
(about 4 percent). Morocco's economic problems call for sustained



- 7 -
efforts over many years, and the Plan represents an improvement
in the Government's effort in that direction; new taxes are going
to be raised and steps to improve tax collections are being taken.
However, compared to the past several years, Morocco will also
require a larger inflow of capital from abroad, including from the
Bank. In 1967 the service of the external public debt as a prop-
ortion of current foreign exchange receipts in that year amounted
to about 9 percent. Morocco can well service additional external
debt, including the proposed Bank loan.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
23.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
24.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the
following resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. _
Approval of Loan to Banque Nationale pour le
Developpement Economique in an amount equivalent
to US$ 15,000,000 to be guaranteed by the Kingdom
of Morocco.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the
Banque Nationale pour le D6veloppement Econondque,
to be guaranteed by the Kingdom of Miorocco, in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million United States dollars (US$15,000,000), to
mature on and prior to July 15, 1985, to bear
interest at the rate or rates to be determined as
set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Third BNDE
Project) between the Bank and Banque Nationale pour
le Developpement Economique which has been presented
to this meeting, and to be upon such other terms and
conditions as shall be substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in said form



- 8 -
of Loan Agreement and in the form of Guarantee Agree-
ment (Third BNDE Project) between the Kingdom of
Morocco and the Bank which has been presented to this
meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
October 16, 1968



