Report No. PID9941
Project Name                              Benin-Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS...
Project
Region                                    Africa Regional Office
Sector                                    Multi-sector
Project ID                                BJPE73118
Borrower(s)                               Republic of BENIN
Implementing Agency
Address
Benin Technical Secretariat of the
National AIDS Control Committee (CLNS)
Contact Person: Dr. Alphonse Gbaguidi
Tel:   (229) 31 54 88
PO Box 04-0378
Fax: (229) 31 63 87
Environment Category                      B
Date PID Updated                          August 22, 2001
Appraisal Date                            July 30, 2001
Projected Board Date                      October 18, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
National awareness of the spread of HIV/AIDS dates back to the mid-eighties.
In 1987, the National AIDS Control Program (NACP- PNLS) was established
within the MOH to coordinate the national response to the epidemic. While the
national response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic has improved over time, the
Government of Benin (GOB) recognizes that it is still inadequate. In August
2000, the council of Ministers have paved the way for further improvements
noting the need for a multi-sectoral approach and a greater participation of
the civil society and communities. With the support of external partners, a
National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan is being developed
It is estimated that at least 2.5 percent (1999- UNAIDS figures) and possibly
4.1 percent (1999- NACP-PNLS) of the adult population of Benin is infected
with HIV. According to these sources from 70,000 up to 160 000 Beninese are
estimated to be living with HIV. 12 between 1990 and 1999 have multiplied
prevalence. Surveys have shown wide variations in seroprevalence among
regions (from 1.4w in Atacora to 7.9w in the Zou). Peak ages for reported
AIDS cases are 20-29 for females and 30-39 for males. Although the primary
mode of transmission of HIV is heterosexual (accounting for more than 90t of
the cases), vertical transmission- from mother to child- is increasing.
2. Objectives
The proposed project is part of the World Bank' s Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS
Program for the Africa Region (MAP). In accordance with the main goal of the
MAP, the development objectives of the proposed project are: (i) to
accelerate, intensify, diversify, and empower the response of civil society



and the public sector to the HIV/AIDS epidemic; (ii) to build capacity in
both civil society and the public sector to achieve and sustain this scaled
up response. The main purpose of the project is to support the implementation
of a diversified gender-responsive multi-sectoral response, engaging all
relevant government sectors, private sector, nongovernmental and civil
society organizations and grass-root initiatives in the fight against
HIV/AIDS. In Benin, the scaling up of existing HIV/AIDS activities by
definition involves the scaling up of both preventive and provision of care
activities. The project focuses on reinforcing and extending the capacity
needed by key actors in civil society and the public sector to stabilize and
finally reduce the rate of HIV/AIDS transmission, and to minimize the impact
of the epidemic. In collaboration with other partners in the International
Partnership against Aids in Africa (IPAA) the project will mobilize and build
capacity for Benin's multi-sectoral scaled -up response to the epidemic, by
financing execution of HIVAIDS activities by the communities themselves, and
by privileging the contracting out of capacity building, by both communities
and line ministries, to competent NGOs, CBOs, indigenous associations,
professional organizations, and private sector agencies.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Availability of sufficient funding for HIV/AIDS: Although several donors are
supporting Benin's efforts to step up the national response, resources
currently allocated to HIV/AIDS related activities only represent a 0.20 US$
expenditure per capita/year. In 2001, the GOB has significantly increased its
budgetary funding to HIV/AIDS related activities. However, this increase will
not be sufficient to bring at the appropriate scale the efforts of non-
governmental and community-based groups. Therefore, Bank's support would help
GOB increase the expenditure on HIV/AIDS up to 0.75US$ per capita/year and be
more effective in the fight against the HIV/AIDS.
Cross-country experience: The Bank is the largest financier of HIV/AIDS and
STD control projects and has ample experience in the design, implementation
and evaluation of these programs in all continents the Bank works in.
Moreover, the Bank has ample experience in the management of investment and
community development funds all over the world in which implementing entities
are largely organizations of civil society and local district governments.
Analytical capacity: The Bank has authored numerous studies analyzing
HIV/AIDS and its impact, drawing upon knowledge in epidemiology, public
health, and economics in order to make recommendations on defining
priorities, strategies to confront it, and the measurement of its impact.
The Bank can provide added value in its technical assistance on monitoring
and evaluation.
4. Description
The project would finance a US$25.43 million, 4-year component of the
Government's HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan. The project's objective is to support
GOB efforts to promote and implement an appropriate, rapid, sustainable and
efficient multi-sectoral response to the epidemic. To achieve its objective,
the project includes support for the following activities:
1. Support to the response of Civil Society (US $13.3 million). The project
will provide technical assistance and financial support for two broad
- 2 -



categories of activities: (A) the participatory community-based preparation
and execution of community HIV/AIDS action plans by the communities and/or
community-based groups themselves; (B) the execution of community-based
HIV/AIDS preventive and provision of care activities by private sector
organizations, NGOs and associations of civil society. The nationwide IEC
campaign and training cycle will be repeated annually, following evaluation
and feedback on the results and obstacles for the program to date from the
community-based action plans via the decentralized Departmental level
HIV/AIDS Committee's (CDLS) to the nationwide Committee for the National
HIV/AIDS Strategy (CNLS.)
2.   Support to the response of the public sector (including the health
sector) (US $8.3 million). This component provides for follow-up support for
two categories of public sector activities: (A) to non-health sector line
ministries and public and private institutions at the national level, to
build their capacity to elaborate and execute short and medium-term HIV/AIDS
action plans; (B) to the Ministry of Health, (MOH) to contribute to the
expansion of the coverage and improvement of the efficacy of 4 interventions
in its program of activities to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS. The project
will mobilize 16/20 non-health sector line ministries, which have yet to
launch their first HIV/AIDS initiatives; and will provide support to the
Ministries of Rural Development, Defense, Education, and Youth and Tourism,
to enable them to deepen and expand their current action plans. Of the 50 or
so other public and private sector institutions, the National Assembly, both
the Universities, the Port Authority and various associations of the judicial
system are examples of key actors. The project provides for technical
assistance and financial resources for the HIV/AIDS Unit (PNLS) of the MOH in
4 areas: (a) improved accessibility to HIV testing and counseling; (b)
improved prevention of HIV transmission; (c) improved quality and scale of
provision of health care to persons living with HIV/AIDS; (d) a program of
collaboration with the national and decentralized associations of Traditional
Practitioners.
3. Support to project management, monitoring and evaluation (US $3.8
million). The PMU will be responsible for facilitating project implementation
within the framework of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy and the CNLS. The
objectives and related responsibilities for the PMU fall into four
categories: (A) Communications; (B) Capacity Building; (C) Monitoring and
Evaluation; (D) Financial Management. This will essentially involve
facilitation of (A) Communications: Launch and annual mass communications
initiatives through the life of the project/ strengthening CNLS advocacy, and
awareness raising capacity. (B) Capacity Building: technical assistance for
the sectoral line ministries and the newly established multi-sectoral CNLS
technical secretariat in their respective HIV/AIDS action planning, execution
and coordination roles. (C) Monitoring and Evaluation. Technical assistance
to ensure CNLS review of    the HIV/AIDS M & E results and assessment of the
strategic implications. (D) Financial Management. Timely and efficient
disbursement and support for responsible management of funds by all
subcontracted executing agencies
5. Financing
Total (US$)
GOVERNMENT               2.0
IDA                      23.0
Community/NGOs           0.43
-3-



Total Project Cost       25.43
6. Implementation
The credit would be disbursed over a four-year period. The project will
support the existing national structures and/or the new ones to be created
under the new Strategic Planning. The overall responsibility for the
implementation of the national strategy for the fight against HIV/AIDS lies
with the National AIDS Committee, which would be in charge of the definition
of broad priorities for action. The HIV/AIDS Committee is responsible for the
strategy definition, the approval of annual work plans and budgets, and the
supervision of the implementation of the strategies at their respective
levels. Its technical secretariat will ensure proper implementation.
The management unit would be responsible for the financial and administrative
aspects of the project. It would contract the necessary technical support to
guide executing entities in preparing proposals and implementing subprojects.
It would prepare and administer contracts to selected executing entities and
monitor their technical and financial performance.
The PNLS would be for example in charge of the health support sub-component,
while the support to civil society response component would be under the
direct responsibility of an independent agency, i.e., AGeFIB which has five
regional offices. The rule of thumb in the design of the institutional
arrangement is the flexibility and ensuring that the money goes directly
where it is needed.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability is more likely to result from: selecting low-cost, preventive
interventions and thus reducing the number of people who contract HIV/AIDS
which would require more expensive treatment; and strengthening capacity to
deliver cost-effective interventions, especially at the local level, and with
major involvement community organizations. The project will help prevent
substantial expenditures on treatment of AIDS cases in the public sector, by
virtue of the number of HIV infections that are averted. Strengthening the
capacity of the National AIDS Committee to oversee the program, and
strengthening implementation capacity in the public, private and NGO sectors,
especially at local level, would enhance managerial sustainability. The
project would include capacity building.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design reflects key lessons learned from international experience
with HIV/AIDS.     Key lessons learned are:
aggressive, preventive interventions are required to slow the spread of HIV;
interventions targeted to high risk behaviors and groups, within a broader
campaign, are the most cost-effective way to reduce transmission and the best
way to protect lower risk groups from infection;
information acquired through personal contacts is the most effective in
promoting behavior change;
targeted interventions need to be complemented by broader advocacy, awareness
and information campaigns which inform and protect the general population,
build support for the program, and reduce the stigmatization of those
infected or members of marginalized groups;
and advocacy and coordination across multiple sectors, including the NGO and
- 4 -



private sectors, is needed to stem the epidemic.
The experience in Uganda, where an advanced epidemic has been brought under
control, and in Senegal, where a generalized epidemic has been prevented,
demonstrate that HIV can be controlled through aggressive action combining
strong government commitment, energetic prevention programs targeted at high
risk behaviors, and sufficient resources from multiple sectors and sources.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI): N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:   Following the 8/2001 management decision that all MAP
projects are to be considered as Category B, the following issues are raised:
(i) to what extent hospital waste, such as syringes, gloves, bandages, human
tissue, etc is being mixed with other waste and whether it is handled and
disposed of in a way that may constitute an environmental hazard; (ii)
current practices with regard to the handling of hospital waste by municipal
authorities once the hospital waste has left the hospital; (iii) the level of
knowledge among staff (hospital orderlies, municipal managers and workers)
about safe hospital waste management practices and in specific HIV/AIDS
waste management; (iv) the availability of hospital equipment such as
incinerators to deal with this type of waste. Actions have been initiated to
address these issues prior to project effectiveness.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Nicolas Ahouissoussi
The World Bank
Zone Residential de la Radio
BP 03-2112
Cotonou- Benin
Telephone:   (229) 31-12-24; Dama: 5390 321
Fax:   (229) 31-58-39
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the Infoshop during the week ending August 31, 2001.
- 5 -



