Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22946-BEN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.8 MILLION
(US$23.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
MULTI-SECTORAL HIV/AIDS PROJECT
DECEMBER 10, 2001
Rural Development 2
Country Departnent 13
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 2001)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
ICFA Franc = US$0.00133
US$1 = CFA Franc 750
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS         Acquired Imnmune Deficiency Syndrome
AGeFIB       Agency for financing grassroots initiatives
(Agence definancement des initiatives de base)
ARV          Antiretroviral (Drugs)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CALS         District level HIV/AIDS Control Committee
(Comite d'Arrondissement de lutte contre le SIDA)
CAME         Essential Medicine Procurement Center
(Centrale d'Achat des Medicaments Essentiels)
CBO          Community Based Organization
CCLS         Communal HIV/AIDS Control Committee
(Comite Communal de Lutte Contre le Sida)
CDF          Comprehensive Development Framework
CDLS         Departmental HIV/AIDS Control Committee
(Comite Departemental de Lutte contre le SIDA)
CEFORP       Center for Population Studies Training and Research
CHD          Departmental Hospitable Center
(Centre Hospitalier Departemental)
CIDA         Canadian International Development Assistance
CNLS         National HlV/AIDS Control Committee
(Comite Nationale de Lutte contre le SIDA)
CPAR         Country Procurement Assessment Review
CSW          Commercial Sex Worker
CVLS         Village level HIV/AIDS Control Committee
(Comite Villageois de lutte contre le SIDA)
EHMP         Environmental Health Management Plan
EU           European Union
FMF          Financial Management Firn
GTZ          Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusamrnmenarbeit
(Germnan Agency for Technical Corporation)
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:   Nicolas Ahouissoussi



HART          HIV Antiretroviral Therapy
HIPC          Highly Indebted Program Country
HIV           Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HZ           Zone Hospital
(H6pital de zone)
IAPSO        Interagency Procurement Services Office
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
1-CAS        Interim-CAS
IEC          Information Education Communication
IPAA         International Partnership Against Aids
LC           Letter of Credit
LCS          Least Cost Selection
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MAP          World Bank's Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Program for Africa
MOH          Ministry of Health
MTCT         Mother To Child Transmission
NATMP        National Association of Traditional Medicine Practitioners
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Nongovernmental Organization
OM           Operational Manual
PERAC        Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit
PLWHA        People Living With HIV/AIDS
PNLS         National HIVIAIDS Control Program
(Programme Nationale de lutte contre le SIDA)
PMU          Project Management Unit
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QCBS         Quality Costbased Selection
RFP          Request for Proposal
RLT          Regional Leadership Team
SOE          Statement of Expenses
SIDA         AIDS
(Syndrdme d'immuno-deficience acquise)
STIs         Sexually Transmissible Infections
SSA          Sub-Saharan Africa
SNIGS        National system of information and health management
(Systeme nationale d 'informations et de gestion sanitaires)
TBAs         Traditional Birth Attendants
TPs          Traditional Practitioners
TOR          Terms of Reference
UNAIDS       United Nations AIDS Program
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
UNFPA        United Nations Fund for Population Assistance
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
UNHCR        United Nations High Commission for Refugees
USAID        United States Aid
VCT          Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WFP          World Food Program
WHO          World Health Organization






BENIN
MULTI-SECTORAL HIV/AIDS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     16
3. Benefits and target population                                                    17
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     18
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      24
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         24
2. Financial                                                                        24
3. Technical                                                                        25
4. Institutional                                                                     25
5. Environmental                                                                    28
6. Social                                                                           29
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               32



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     32
2. Critical risks                                                                     33
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     35
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            35
2. Other Project covenants                                                            35
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          36
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         36
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          38
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    45
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         54
Annex 4: Economic Analysis Summary                                                       55
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               56
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       61
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     70
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   71
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  78
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            79
Annex 11: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                      81
Annex 12: Organizational Chart                                                           86
Annex 13: Supervision Plan                                                               88
Annex 14: Financial Management Action Plan                                               92
MAP(S)
IBRD 31703
TASK CODE: P073118



BENIN
Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTR2
Date: December 10, 2001                          Team Leader: Nicolas Ahouissoussi
Country Manager/Director: Antoinette M. Sayeh    Sector Manager/Director: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project ID: P073118                              Sector(s): HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m):
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 40
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                      2.43           0.00          2.43
IDA                                                          18.43           4.57         23.00
Total:                                                       20.86           4.57         25.43
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF BENIN
Responsible agency: NATIONAL HIV/AIDS COMMITTEE
Contact Person: Dr. Alphonse Gbaguidi
Tel: (229) 31-54-88          Fax: (229) 31-78-48          Email: pnls@nakayo.leland.bj
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005
Annual    5.80        5.60      5.70       5.90
Cumulative    5.80      11.40      17.10     23.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/15/2002  Expected closing date:  09/15/2006
OCS PAD -   Fd l F    RIO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1.1. Project development objective:
The proposed project is part of the World Bank' s multicountry (and multisectoral) HIV/AIDS Program for
the Africa Region (MAP) approved on September 12, 2000. In accordance with the main goal of the MAP,
the development objectives of the proposed project are to contribute to curbing the spread of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic in Benin and to mitigating its impact for all those who are infected or affected through (1)
accelerating, intensifying, diversifying, and empowering the response of civil society and the public sector
to the HIV/AIDS epidemic; and (2) building capacity in both civil society and the public sector to achieve
and sustain this scaled-up response.
1.2. Project purpose:
The main purpose of the project is to support the implementation of a diversified, gender-responsive,
multisectoral response, engaging all relevant government sectors, private sector, nongovernmental and civil
society organizations and grass-roots initiatives in the fight against HIV/AIDS. In Benin, by definition, the
scaling up of existing HIV/AIDS activities involves the scaling up of both preventive and provision-of-care
activities. The project focuses on reinforcing and extending the capacity needed by key actors in civil
society and the public sector to stabilize and ultimately reduce the rate of HIV/AIDS transmission, and to
minimize the impact of the epidemic. In collaboration with other partners in the Intemational Partnership
against Aids in Africa (IPAA), the Project will mobilize and build capacity for Benin's multi-sector,
scaled-up response to the epidemic by financing the execution of HIV/AIDS activities by the cormmunities
themselves, and by contracting out capacity building, of both communities and line Ministries, to competent
Non-Government Organization (NGOs), Community Based Organization (CBOs), indigenous associations,
professional organizations, and private sector agencies.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The categories of monitoring and evaluation indicators listed below have been drawn from the work carried
out to date in the context of the execution of Benin's national HIV/AIDS program, involving the
participation of the executing agencies themselves, and are consistent with the categories of indicators
recommended by UNAIDS for the monitoring and evaluation of projects. Only indicative categories of
Output, Process and Outcome measures are included in the context of this 4-year project since
measurement of long-term impact is not feasible and cannot be discretely attributed to the project (see
Annex 1 and Annex 11 on Monitoring and Evaluation).
2.1 Output indicators
*     By the completion of the Project, nunber, coverage and type of Subprojects successfully completed
to be at least 2,500. (Social Mobilization) Sources: M &E Progress Reports from Community Groups.
*     By the completion of the Project, grants provided to communities to finance Subprojects to amount
at least to the equivalent of US$6,000,000. (Social Mobilization) Sources: Project financial reports.
*     By the completion of the Project, in those health facilities that are stocked with drugs to treat
common opportunistic infections, the percentage which also provide palliative care and report no stock-outs
in the past twelve months to be 100 percent. (Care and Support) Sources: Progress Reports
- 2 -



*      By the completion of the Project, percentage of women testing HIV/AIDS positive at antenatal
clinics who are provided with a complete course of HART to prevent mother to child transmission to be at
least 50 percent. (Mother to child transmission) Sources: Health Facilities reports.
*      By the completion of the Project, in those facilities where  blood units are  transfused, the
percentage that have been screened for HIV according to national guidelines to be 100 percent. (Blood
safety) Sources: Blood Bank reports.
*     By the completion of the Project, percentage of households with a chronically ill adult (aged 1549
years) who have in the last twelve months received external help in caring for the patient or replacing lost
income, to have increased by at least 20 percent in reference to the baseline study. (Care and Support)
Sources: Progress Reports from executing agencies and communities.
2.2 Process indicators
*     By the completion of the Project, number of people in implementing agencies mobilized to
implement Project Component 1 to be at least 200 women and 200 men in 50 percent of the communities at
least. Social Mobilization). Sources: Contracts and M&E progress reports from subcontract
*     By the completion of the Project, community-based organizations established, trained and having
elaborated their Subprojects through a participatory and planning process to range from 1,300 to 2,000
communities in at least 50 percent of the villages. (Social Mobilization) Sources: Progress Reports.
*     By the completion of the Project , the number of self-sufficient and functioning PLWHA support
groups and associations to be the following: one national association with at least 25 members, and at least
40 village-level associations with at least 10 members each, forming a network. (Social Mobilization)
Sources: Progress reports from Community Group and agencies providing support).
*     By the completion of the Project, number of traditional healers and traditional birth attendants
trained and equipped with adequate information on HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections to be at
least 192. (Care and Support) Sources: Progress Reports
*      By the completion of the Project, percentage of antenatal clinics that offer counseling and
voluntary testing for HIV/AIDS by trained staff, or that refer clients to Voluntary Counseling Testing
services to be at least 50 percent. (Voluntary Testing and Counseling) Sources: Progress Reports.
*      By the completion of the Project, number of public sector organizations that have elaborated and
implemented their Action Plans to be at least 15 ministries and 30 public sector organizations. (Policy)
Sources: Progress Reports.
*     By the completion of the Project, percentage of households with a chronically ill adult (aged 15-49
years) who have in the last twelve months received external help in caring for the patient or replacing lost
income, to have increased by at least 20 percent in reference to the baseline study. (Care and Support)
Sources: Progress Reports from executing agencies and communities.
2.3 Outcome indicators
*      By the completion of the Project, the HIV Prevalence rate among pregnant women aged 15-24
- 3-



seeking prenatal consultation at sentine] sites to be reduced by at least 5 percent in reference to the baseline
study. Sources: (MOHSentinel Surveys).
*     By the completion of the Project, the number of pregnant women aged 15-24 years attending
antenatal clinics who test positive for syphilis to be reduced by at least 2 percent in reference to the baseline
study. Sources: (MOHSentinel Surveys).
*     By the completion of the Project, the I-V prevalence rate among people seeking treatment for
sexually transmitted infections to be reduced by at least h percent in reference to the baseline study.
Sources: (MOHSentinel Surveys).
By the completion of the Project, the percentage of households with a chronically ill adult aged
15-49 who has in the last twelve months received free extemal help in caring for the patient or replacing
lost income would increase by at least 20 percent in reference to the baseline study. Sources: (Special
studies).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-242    Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/23/2001
Strategic Context
1- Sector Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
The Government's current country strategy was described in an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(IDA/SecM2000-357), discussed by the Board in July 13, 2000 in the context of the HIPC decision point.
Pending the Government's finalization of the full PRSP, with the earliest anticipated date for Board
discussion now being February 2002, the Bank prepared an interim CAS, which was presented to the
Board in January 2001.This document specifically identifies HIV/AIDS as a major development challenge
for Benin and underscores the need to step up the fight against HIV/AIDS by:
(a) Raising national authorities' awareness to HIV/AIDS issues and increasing domestic budget
resources allocated to HIV/AIDS related interventions;
(b) Developing a multisectoral approach and a comprehensive strategic framework;
(c) Financing assistance and support to the civil society organizations to reduce stigma, and denial
among the population, improve access to prevention and care, and limit the social consequences of
the epidemic; and
(d) Supporting health services to improve prevention and treatment.
The proposed project is fully consistent with the vision and strategy defined in the I-CAS to underpin and
enhance national ownership. It will help the Government address urgent needs as well as build up the
national capacity to respond to the epidemic threat. Consistent with the philosophy of the CDF, it will also
help strengthen the capacity of the civil society to address HIV/AIDS-related issues and give a high priority
to community-driven initiatives.
Board approval in March 2001 of the one year Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit (PERAC)
followed approval of the I-CAS; it has been agreed that, as an emergency project, the financing of the
proposed HIV/AIDS Project for Benin will be handled outside of the PERAC, an instrument by which all
- 4 -



financial flows to Benin from the Bank, including the Highly Indebted Program Country (HIPC) resources,
are now only available through the Gomcrnment's annual negotiation of programmatic budgets for the
various sectors.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The HI V/AIDS epidemic in Benin: Cross-country comparisons in West Africa
Figure I
HIV Prevalence among Young (15-24)
by Gender in selected West African
Countries
10          -7
6 u
E Men
<x  *aD  *a>    X   c,       |)     E Women
0)
a)
0
The subregional context
The relative prevalence of HIV/AIDS in neighboring countries of the sub region is an important context for
considering the Governnent's strategy and the main sector issues. This is based on recognition of the scale
of the centuries old established practice of seasonal and circulatory migration for labor amongst these
countries of the sub region (at least 6 million border crossings per annum are estimated) and the role which
this may well play in contributing to the prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS within Benin.
Summary of the status of the HIVAIDS epidemic in Benin
Due to the weaknesses of the epidemiological surveillance, testing and notification systems, and the limited
access to formal health services, compounded by social stigma associated with the disease, the figures on
HIV/AIDS prevalence quoted below are likely to be under-estimated. HIV prevalence measured among
pregnant women attending antenatal clinics in major urban areas remained relatively low during the 1980s,
but increased rapidly in the 1990s from a reported 0.3 percent in 1990 to 3.1 percent in 1996 and 4.1
percent in 1999. This represents a 12-fold increase in less than a decade. For the year 2000, UNAIDS
estimated the HIV prevalence among the adult population to be at 2.45 percent. On the basis of the
UNAIDS calculations, it is estimated that in 2000, 70,000 persons were living with the virus in Benin, with
5600 persons having died from AIDS in 1999.
-5 -



Trends in the evolution of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Benin
While the overall male to female ratio of infection was estimated at 2:1 in 1996, with the evolution of the
epidemic, this overall ratio is now estimated to be 1:1 in 2000, whereas the male to female ratio of infection
for the 15-24 years age cohort alone is now 1:2 (see figure 1). Likewise, there has been a disquieting
evolution in prevalence in the rural areas, now reported at an overall 5.4 percent in contrast with the overall
1.9 percent in the urban areas. However, according to group-specific surveys, prevalence among
commercial sex workers (CSW) is now at 55 percent in urban areas but 29 percent excluding the main
cities. This is complemented by studies which, even in the early 90's, identified the drivers of long-distance
North-South cross-border freight lorries, and nation-wide, drivers of passenger taxis, as high risk groups;
more recent information has highlighted the sub regional and socially diverse groups of passengers moving
between the 5 countries implicated in the Abidjan to Lagos West-East axis, with Hilla Condji and Krake
Plage being the key sites for diverse high risk migrant populations identified by the MAP 2 subregional
project now under preparation. Surveys have also shown wide variations among the 6 regions (from 1.4
percent in Atacora to 7.9 percent in Zou). In some geographic areas, prevalence is even higher, reaching as
high as 13.5 percent (Dogbo and Savalou).
Trends in the modes of transmission oJfHIV
The primary mode of transmission of HIIV in Benin is heterosexual, accounting for 89 percent of the
reported cases. The median age at first intercourse as 18.2 years for males and 17.3 years for females,
with significant variation among regions and local areas. About 50 percent of women between the ages 15
and 49 and 30 percent of men between the ages 20 and 64 are in polygamous unions. Vertical (mother-to-
child) transmission is estimated to account for 4 percent. However another source indicates that some
3,700 babies were infected in 1999 due to mother to child transmission (MTCT). According to this source,
MTCT in fact represents 20 percent of new IfV infection. It is important to recognize that given the now
established level of HIV/AIDS prevalence amongst all women, (see diagram 1) of whom 44 percent are of
childbearing-age, the ratio of Mother to child transmission is likely to increase in the coming years.
Transmission through blood and blood products currently attributes to only 0.8 percent of reported cases,
and 6 percent of reported cases are currently attributed to other non-specified modes of transmission (such
as the use of infected syringes, razor blades).
Figure 2
Benin- Modes of transmission
4%
6%                    b Heterosexual
* Blood transf
El Mother to Child
89%           Cl Other- Non Spec
Most of the people infected by HIV are young and in their most economically productive years of life.
Peak ages for the reported AIDS cases are 20 to 29 years for females, and 30 to 39 years for males. Eighty
percent of all reported AIDS cases correspond to adults of 20 to 49 years of age.
- 6 -



HIVIAIDS as a public issue
Awareness of the disease and its mode of transmission continues to increase but is still not universal,
although it is likely higher among men than women. About 30 percent of women and 10 percent of men
have received insufficient information on HIV/AIDS, its transmission, and ways to prevent it. The
perception of risk for each individual is even less well established, with more than 50 percent of both men
and women, including young, single, and CSW clients, thinking they are not at risk. Some 50 percent of
women have declared that they have not changed their sexual behavior because of AIDS, and utilization of
condoms remains low (in 1998, 3 million condoms were sold, less than 1.5 condoms per sexually active
person).
Public discussion about sex is still a challenge and community taboos lead to limited discussion among
adults and rarely within the family. In this context the Benin Catholic Church continues to vigorously and
publicly oppose the use of condoms along with any non-natural means of contraception. The high illiteracy
rate (77 percent of the adult population, including 70.8 percent of women of childbearing age) the low
socioeconomic status of women, sexual violence (in particular at school), the extensive intemal (local level
and nationwide) and extemal migration, in the context of the society's overall poverty, are all contributory
risk factors.
Very few studies have been conducted on the current and potential impact of HIV/AIDS on the economy
and society at large. While the epidemnic has not yet reached the crisis dimension evident in other African
countries, the current prevalence is very likely to already present a serious challenge to all aspects of
Benin's development. The number of orphans, itself a powerful indicator of this development challenge, is
recognized to be increasing, with current estimates at around 27,000.
The bottom line
The UNAIDS estimate of 2.45 percent national prevalence suggests that there is still time to redress the
situation before the epidemic reaches the "take off' point of 5 percent prevalence at the national level,
which has already been surpassed in several areas of the country. The various issues raised in this section
are considered by the Benin counterpart project team and UNAIDS partners to be important to an
understanding of the social experience underlying the data on the national prevalence of the epidemic in
Benin, and reflection on these issues has informed the design and preparation of the project. Without
immediate and intensified action to reduce the spread of H1V, Benin will face a major human, social and
development crisis in the near future.
Government strategy
Benin created a National AIDS Control Program (PNLS) in 1987. A short-term plan and a first
medium-term prevention and control plan were designed and implemented between 1987 and 1993. The
second medium-term plan, which launched the Government's multisectoral approach to the PLNS, will end
in 2001. The program has been primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Health (MOH), with the
PNLS being a subdirectorate of the MOH directorate for protection. These activities have received active
donor support complemented by an IDA-financed Health and Population Credit, including a US$1 million
component reallocated at the mid-term review, to support PLWHAs (persons living with HIV/AlDS). In
spite of increased public leadership of Government and donor support over the 14 years to date, the
capacity of the PNLS has been overtaxed. Furthermore, even though 4 of the 20 remaining sectoral
Ministries have, in the last 2 years, prepared and launched HIV/AIDS Action Plans, interventions clearly
- 7-



have not been authentically multisectoral in character, nor of the scale and level of mobilization required to
limit the spread of the virus.
Since the beginning of the year 2000, there has been a remarkable increase in commitment by the
Government with regard to HIV/AIDS. At that time, on the basis of its assessment of the relative lack of
success of HIV/AIDS activities, the Government, through the PNLS, initiated and conducted a 3 stage
process of reflection among key stakeholders, aiming at a radical reorientation of PLNS, with a focus on
the multisectoral nature of the 2001-2005 strategic framework for HIV/AIDS prevention and mnitigation in
Benin. This initiative was supported by UNAIDS and the IDA-financed Population and Health Project,
with the first phase consisting of a situation analysis helping to identify the determinants and specificity of
the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Benin; during the second phase of the process, the activities carried out
1993-2000 were analyzed to identify the strengths and weaknesses and to pave the way for the formulation
of the strategic framework. The final stage involved a national consultation of public sector/civil
society/financing development partners in October 2000, resulting in the draft of the revised and
multisectoral National HIV/AIDS Strategy, which was formally published in December 2000. To
reactivate the National I{IV/AIDS Committee (CNLS)--originally established under the second medium
term plan)--and to ensure that the CNLS will be authentically multisectoral, fully decentralized, and
inclusive at all levels, the need to revise and update the related decree was recognized. Meanwhiile, in
August 2000, the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on AIDS specifying the requirements for (a)
the preparation of a report on the impact of HIV/AIDS on the Benin economy and various sectors, and (b)
budget allocations for all the line Ministries for financing HIV/AIDS activities.
This concerted process, implicating a broad range of partners, greatly facilitated the gap analysis
undertaken during preparation of the project. Interventions supported by four key multilateral partners
(IJNDP, UNICEF, WHO, and EU) in specific geographic/administrative areas, with annual financial
allocations ranging from US$40,000--US$l 10,000, focus on: training of health staff in treatment of STI,
equipment and staff training to assure quality blood bank services, counseling/treatment/living costs for
PLWHAs, and technical assistance/institutional support to the PLNS Unit of MOH. The five core bilateral
partners (Canada, France, Germany, Switzerland, and the USA) support a wide range of complementary
interventions in specific geographic/administrative areas, with program financial allocations ranging from
US$70,000 to US$1,950,000: these are, namely: elaboration of HIV/AIDS integrated curricula with the
Ministry of Education; epidemiological surveillance and behavioral research; pilot preventive
Mother-to-Child transmission and retroviral treatment programs and related staff training; HIV/AIDS rapid
testing/counseling and associated training; quality blood bank and laboratory services; IEC for behavior
change with counseling and care services for commercial sex workers; financing and integration of care
services for PLWHAs within their communities; social marketing of condoms; promotion of HIV/AIDS
preventive measures in the context of reproductive health activities; and information for and advocacy with
decisionmakers (table D2). Examples of the many NGO partner supported activities include Africare's
Child Survival Program in one region, and the anti-TB medical supplies provided for the national program
by the Intemational Union. Recognition of the predominantly health-oriented nature of interventions by
other partners, the need for a much more generalized and regular sharing of program information and
standardizing of surveillance protocols, and the need to build more efficient coordination of all these efforts
were identified as three core themes to address in Project design.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The strategic choices center on how to prevent the further spread of HIV/AIDS by means of a multi-sector
program. The Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for Africa (MAP) provides a framework within which
Benin is eligible for MAP funding, in that it has satisfied the four MAP eligibility criteria.
-8-



Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS
The 12/2000 National HIV/AIDS Strategy was elaborated on the basis of a thorough situation/program
analysis and a national consultative participatory process.
Creation of a high level HIV/AIDS coordinating body
On the basis of the revised and updated National HIVAIDS Strategy, the structure and functions of the
CNLS, which were originally provided for under the 1994-2001 second medium term plan, were also
reviewed, and an updated decree No. 2001-231 was signed in July 2001. This decree clearly establishes
the multisectorality of the CNLS which is under the presidency of the Head of State with a broad and
decentralized representation of key stakeholders from all sectors, including PLWHAs.
Government agreement to use appropriate implementation arrangements
By comparison with many SSA member countries, the Borrower already has some 5 years of experience, in
various sectors, both with channeling funds directly to communities and civil society (in both rural and
urban areas), and with contracting out financial/ program management and program execution. The Benin
HIV/AIDS project builds on this experience.
Government agreement to use and fund multiple implementation agencies
In the context of the decentralization process, the structure of the CNLS already provides for the
mobilization and participation of all levels of the administration; the Benin HIV/AIDS project builds on the
Borrower's already referenced 5 years of diverse experience in various sectors, financing activities
implemented by nongovernmental agencies, private sector organizations, and traditional associations.
Given this strategic context, and the findings of the gap analysis, it is proposed that priority should be given
to the following sector issues:
a     Immediate multiplication of simple but effective multisectoral village and community level
activities by empowerment of those communities, in which structures of traditional leadership still have an
important role. Since Benin will face the HIV/AIDS epidemic for decades, building a sustainable and
adaptable capacity to respond to the epidemic and its consequences is essential.
=      Scaling up of gender-responsive, non-health sector, community-support initiatives by private sector
agencies and NGOs, as another means of building and empowering the capacity of civil society.
*     Complementing such initiatives by supporting village and urban societies and private sector
agencies to provide better care to PLWHAs and their affected families.
*     Empowering non-health sector ministries and governmental agencies to engage in actively building
a more open, favorable and supportive environment for HIV/AIDS initiatives both among their own
personnel and with their sectoral constituencies and partners.
*      Scaling up of existing efforts by MOH in collaboration with development partners and the private
health  sector  in  four  specific  domains:  (1)  to  expand  coverage  of  gender-responsive
testing/counseling/prevention of heterosexual transmission of HIV and Mother-to-Child transmission; (2) to
ensure basic national coverage of gender-responsive medical services for prevention and treatment of
sexually transmitted diseases; (3) to complement existing efforts to provide increased coverage of
appropriate medical treatment and better quality of care to PLWHAs. The role of Traditional Healers
-9-



(TH's) and Traditional Birth Attendants (TBA's) in community and family health practices, and the status
of medicinal plants and medicines as the first and often only source of treatment for the majority of rural
populations in Benin, underpin the Project's provision for formally recognizing and scaling up in the fourth
domain, namely (4) to promote of MOH/TH collaboration in informing/training and mobilizing these
influential members of their communities.
*      Limited provision for the targeting of specific areas of high prevalence, as well as specific groups
and subgroups at high risk, but only as may be identified as priorities by the community Subprojects, by
the Action Plans of sector Ministries and of public sector organizations, and by the CNLS.
*     Provision of capacity building support for the coordination role of the CNLS and its technical
secretariat in establishing standardized epidemiological surveillance protocols, and facilitating regular
sharing of program plans and results among executing agencies and implementing partners of the National
HIV/AIDS Strategy.
These priority sector issues identify the challenges of applying the multisectoral response to the epidemic
elaborated in the National Aids Strategy of Benin. The scope of the scaling up of existing private and
public sector efforts to empower communities as foreseen by the project, is without precedent in any sector
in Benin. Given the range of stakeholders already engaged in the fight against HIV/AIDS, project
implementation has been designed on the basis of mobilizing and scaling up these existing interactions,
while providing for support to the CNLS in its coordination and facilitation role. In addition, in line with
the specific provision in the I-CAS, and in line with the gap analysis, these priority sector issues recognize
the defined responsibility and role of the MOH and PNLS in the medical prevention of HIV/AIDS
transmission and medical treatment of STI, and in ensuring provision of medical services for PLWHAs.
These priority sector issues also recognize the need for PNLS to build on its historically established and
valued role in leading Benin's efforts to limit the spread of HIV/AIDS, by now supporting other key
sectoral Ministries to translate the implications of the epidemic for their personnel and the execution of
their sectoral mandate. Based on this strategic choice, the Benin HIV/AIDS Project may be categorized as
"hybrid," providing for this combined role of the MOH and PNLS by incorporating a "Health"
subcomponent within the overall compass of Project providing support to the response of the public sector.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will support the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy, through three core
components: (1) support to civil society; (2) support to the public sector (including health sector); and (3)
support to Project coordination, administration, and monitoring and evaluation.
1. Support to the response of civil society
The principles of community-based participatory development and the financial mechanisms for providing
support to communities, which underpin this component, have benefited from the experience already gained
from the implementation of several IDA-financed Credits in Benin involving such community-based
activities (namely, the Social Fund, the Pilot Rural Development Support Program of Borgou, the Pilot
Community-Based Forestry Management Project, the Food Security project). The Project will subcontract
technical assistance and financial support for three broad types of activities: (1) the social mobilization,
training and Subprojects preparation; (2) the execution of the community Subprojects by the communities
- 1 0 -



themselves; and (3) the execution of community-based HIV/AIDS preventive and provision of care
activities by private sector organizations, NGOs and other civil society organizations. The Project will
support the civil society response through three subcomponents.
Subcomponent 1: Strengthening of the institutional capacities of the community-based organizations and
civil society organizations, carrying out awareness campaigns, training, and community Subproject
preparation.
This component will strengthen the institutional capacities of civil society organizations, together with the
awareness raising campaign followed by the training of trainers at the national level and thereafter at all
levels of decentralization, which will be launched and facilitated by the Project Management Unit (PMU)
and the Unit's outreach regionally based staff, at the outset of the Project. This national IEC campaign and
training cycle will be repeated annually, following evaluation and feedback on the program results of the
program to date from the decentralized Departmental level HIV/AIDS Committees (CDLS) provided for by
CNLS. The Project also provides for the PMU to subcontract NGOs and private agencies with the required
expertise to support communities at the local level, in the planning, executing, and monitoring of their
HIW/AIDS Subprojects and to collaborate with field staff of the core Ministries of Rural Development,
Social Protection, and Health, ensuring the empowerment of about 35 percent of Benin's communities in
their fight against the epidemic by the end of the Project.
Subcomponent 2: Community grant for executing Subprojects
On the basis of the participatory training, and follow-up support/capacity building for their community
based analysis and planning process, the communities will develop their gender-responsive HIV/AIDS
Subprojects, with particular attention to ensuring inclusion of the concerns of those social groups which
traditionally have less voice (the young, women, pastoral nomads). Simple criteria, including a limited
negative list and a wide range of indicative examples of possible activities, are available to guide this
community process in selecting their priority activities (Cf Operational Manual). These tools are intended
to support the community's careful analysis of the behavioral and socioeconomic factors which, in their
local society, could contribute to the spread of the HIV/AIDS and to recognize any as yet unmet needs for
support required by any community groups at high risk for HIV/AIDS, or by any PLWHA, their orphans
or affected families. The community HIV/AIDS Subproject proposals will then be provided to the local
"arrondissement" level approval committee (CCLS, CALS) for review. Following successful approval, the
Subproject proposal will be forwarded to the relevant local bureau of the Project for prompt transfer of
funds to the account opened by the designated members of the community's HIV/AIDS committee (CVLS),
following their signature of a grant agreement with the relevant CDLS, the Financial Management Firm
(FMF), and the relevant community-based organization. With an average of US$1000 and a ceiling of
US$3,000 per annum per community, the Project provides for communities to submit Subprojects on an
iterative yearly basis. Of the total 6000 communities in Benin, (both urban and rural), which it is intended
to reach with awareness raising campaigns over the life of the project, it is anticipated that the project will
finance an average of 100 community HIV/AIDS Subprojects per year per department.
Subcomponent 3: Financial support to civil society organizations for executing prevention and care
activities for communities.
This category of activities ensures both the fullest possible engagement of all civil society actors in
supporting and scaling up the response of urban and rural communities to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and
provides for attention to those needs which may well lie beyond the capacity of any single community to
organize. Private sector organizations, NGOs and associations of civil society, which are already engaged
- 11 -



in HIV/AIDS preventive or provision of care activities, or which have a particular expertise relevant to the
HIV/AIDS campaign may therefore also submit proposals. Those requesting financing to support the
expansion of effective existing initiatives, addressing the specific objectives of the project, will be given
priority. Indicative examples of such proposals include activities such as: Centers of Care for PLWHA,
facilitation of community-based support for HIV/AIDS orphans and affected families, promotion of
collaboration with the national and decentralized associations of Traditional Practitioners; support for
HIV/AIDS transmissions on community radio networks; programs of anonymous voluntary testing and
counseling for HIV/AIDS in high risk/high prevalence zones, programs facilitating "peer group" counseling
among youth groups and commercial sex workers. It is anticipated that such proposals would be prepared
in consultation with other relevant actors, such as the respective government Ministry or decentralized
administration, or the communities concemed. Depending on the geographic coverage of the activities in
such proposals, the review/approval process will be with the decentralized approval HIV/AIDS committees
(CCLS, CALS or CDLS ). The grant agreement will be entered into among the relevant CDLS, the FMF,
and the relevant civil society organization; or among the CNLS, the PMU, and the relevant civil society
organization, as the case may be, depending on the arnount of financing involved.
2. Support to the response of the public sector (including the health sector)
This Project component provides for follow-up support for two categories of public sector activities: (1) to
non-health sector line Ministries and public and private institutions at the national level to build their
capacity to elaborate and execute short- and medium-term HIV/AIDS Action Plans, and (2) to the Ministry
of Health, to contribute to the expansion of the coverage and improvement of the efficacy of its program of
activities to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS.
Subcomponent 1: Non-health sector Action Plans
Among the non-health sector line Ministries, the Project will mobilize the sixteen sectoral ministries of the
total of twenty-one which have yet to launch their first HIV/AIDS initiatives; and will provide support to
the Ministries of Rural Development, Defense, Education, and Youth and Tourism, to enable them to
deepen and expand their current Action Plans. The 50 or so other public sector organizations, including the
National Assembly, both the Universities, the Port Authority and various associations of the judicial
system, will also be assisted.
The sectoral Action Plans will detail how the ministries and eligible agencies would initiate or strengthen
their fight against HIVIAIDS, indicating collaborating partnerships with their related decentralized entities
wherever possible. A key criterion for the Sectoral Action Plans is that they be organized around two core
themes: (1) awareness raising/advocacy and counseling to raise information levels, encourage appropriate
behavioral change or identify any socio-psychological support needed among ministerial staff themselves;
and (2) initiatives related to the specific technical or sectoral policy mandate of the Ministry, or the public
sector organization or agency and its constituencies. Proposals for the limited provision of equipment
(such as audio visual tools) is anticipated within such plans, and examples of eligible activities related to
the first theme might include:
(1)    Capacity building:  training of focal points at all levels of decentralization in their roles as
catalysts, to enable line Ministries and institutions to initiate, coordinate, and sustain these activities;
(2)    Initial staff IEC program backed up by regular staff updates of information on the HIV/AIDS
epidemic in Benin (CNLS reports); and
(3)    Review of any necessary statutory reform or related change in regulatory practices, in light of the
patient's/ employees' and affected families' right to confidentiality of their health status and privacy.
- 12 -



Examples of eligible activities related to the second theme might include: (1) study of the current and
projected impact of HIV/AIDS on the respective ministerial sector of the economy, (as per the August/2000
decision of the Council of Ministers); (2) nationwide initiatives to be undertaken by decentralized field staff
in support of local communities; (3) gender-responsive sector-specific HIV/AIDS communication plans in
ministries responsible for public service facilities.
Once approved by the Technical Secretariat of the CNLS, these activities would be funded through direct
transfers of funds to the respective line ministries or institutions on the basis of a financial agreements
signed between the CNLS, the PMU and the relevant public sector organization, continued support being
contingent on satisfactory annual performance. With the evolution of project execution, ministries will be
encouraged to consolidate their Action Plans with other related sectors, and to seek additional financing
through partnering shared program activities with private sector organizations.
Subcomponent 2: Health sector interventions/activities
Regarding the Ministry of Health, the project sub-component provision of US$5.5 million, for technical
assistance and financial resources for the PNLS, will complement the Ministry's annual budget allocation
in the following way; in the Budget Year 2000, of the total MOH Budget (US$46 million), US$2 million
was allocated to PLNS; in 2001, the US$2 million allocation to the PLNS continued but was to also
provide financing for the HIV/AIDS action plans to be developed by the sectoral ministries, (as per the
Cabinet decision of 8/2000), on the basis of US$30-40,000 per ministry. The provision of US$1.38
million per year over the 4 year life of the Credit, reflects the gap financing required to scale up activities to
achieve basic national coverage in the following five areas of intervention, and will support HIV/AIDS
related health activities and initiatives of both the public and the private sector.
(a) Improved accessibility to HIV testing and counseling by (1) increasing physical and financial
accessibility to testing and counseling including subsidizing the HIV test and (2) improving the quality of
pre-and post-test counseling; (3) further expanding the prevention of mother to child transmission by
helping MOH to put in place the conditions for the introduction and expansion of access to HIV
antiretroviral therapy (HART); and, (4) developing the safety of the related blood transfusions services,
injections and medical as well as surgical practices;
(b) Improved prevention of HIV transmission by making STI treatments more accessible and affordable;
(c) Improved quality and scale of provision of health care to persons living with HIV/AIDS by improving
the physical and financial accessibility to the prevention and treatment of opportunistic diseases as well as
other treatments (anti-pain treatments, palliative care) for PLWHAs;
(d) Initiation of a systematic program of collaboration with the national associations of Traditional
Practitioners to improve: (1) the qualifications and competence of TPs to fully participate in the fight
against HIV/AIDS, especially in the rural areas; (2) identification of effective traditional treatments of
SDIs and opportunistic diseases (ODs); (3) scientific validation of selected traditional treatments; and to
(4) establish and sustain collaboration between TPs/TBAs and government clinics; and
(e) Support HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities for its staff.
- 13 -



3. Support to project coordination, management, monitoring and evaluation
Under this component the following activities will be financed: (1) strengthening the capacity of CNLS and
the PMU to implement a coordination, administration and monitoring and evaluation framework for the
Project through the provision of technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of goods,
equipment and vehicles; (2) strengthening the capacity of CDLSs, CALSs, CCLSs and CVLSs to carry out
the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of subprojects, through the provision of training; (3) carrying
out the activities under the Monitoring and Evaluation Manual through the provision of technical advisory
services; (4) carrying out the accounting, financial reporting and disbursement functions related to the
subprojects to be implemented by a cormmunity-based organization or a civil society organizations at a
decentralized level, through the provision of technical advisory services and training, the renovation and
equipment of office space, and the acquisition of vehicles; and (5) carrying out financial audits of the
Project and the Financial Management Firrn(FMF) through the provision of technical advisory services.
The PMU will be responsible for facilitating project implementation within the framework of the National
HIV/AIDS Strategy and the CNLS. All members of the PMU will be recruited by the Borrower's Ministry
of Planning on a contractual basis from the private sector, in line with Bank guidelines. The PMU staff
will include a coordinator, a financial management specialist, a procurement specialist, an HIV/AIDS
specialist and support staff. The PMU, like the CNLS Technical Secretariat, has no program execution
function; its role is to subcontract with a full range of actors in the private and public sector, to facilitate
the effective and efficient execution of the project, as per the annual project plans and budgets approved by
the CNLS and the Bank, and to ensure technical assistance and capacity building for the multisectoral
CN'LS Technical Secretariat. The objectives and related responsibilities for the PMU under the Project can
be usefully grouped into four categories: (a) Communications; (b) Capacity Building; (c) Monitoring and
Evaluation and (d) Financial Management.
(a) Communications: The organization of the launch of the mass communications campaign, by the Head
of State of Benin and Chairman of the CNLS, with multimedia for involving ministers of the core sectors of
the economy, sustained by the nationwide network of State, community and private radio networks,
awareness raising workshops at all levels of CNLS and community level cultural events, will be the point
of' departure for the activities foreseen for all three project components. The PMU will ensure annual mass
cornmunications initiatives through the life of the project, executed by subcontracted international and
national communications specialists, whose task will equally include strengthening the capacity of the
C\LS technical secretariat, and the C'NLS forum to actively sustain commitment and capacity in
HIV;iAIDS advocacy, and awareness raising.
(b) Capacity Building: At the national 'level, the focus will be on ensuring capacity building of the newly
established multi-sectoral technical secretariat of the CNLS, and of the sectoral line ministries and public
sector organizations, for the execution of their HIV/AIDS Action Plans; nationwide, the PMU together with
its local outreach staff will focus on empowering communities through capacity building efforts targeted to
support their efforts to limit the spread of HIV/AIDS.
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation: As per the gap analysis, the core of the capacity building to be
facilitated by the PMU for the multisectoral technical secretariat to the CNLS will be to ensure the
secretariat's competence to focus on the strategic program implications of the results of the common
monitoring and evaluation framework and manual, which is currently being prepared in consultation with
and for use by CNLS executing agencies and partners. The project indicators (section 2.1-2.4 Annex I and
the M&E Annex) are structured according to the categorization of interventions and indicators established
- 14 -



by UNAIDS (i.e. behavioral change, social capacity for support to PLWHA, counseling/care services for
STIs, security of blood transfusion services, mother-child transmission of HIV; voluntary testing and
counseling and policy); this single, simple and standardized M&E tool will meet a key need identified by
the gap analysis, and will make it feasible for meaningful data to be aggregated from different executing
agencies and different levels of decentralization of execution. It is also recognized that it will be necessary
for the PMU in collaboration with the CNLS Secretariat, to sustain stakeholders ownership and
involvement by ensuring regular dissemination of findings and enlisting their feedback on their experience
with the manual. All M&E activities will be contracted out to external agencies/consulting groups, to
ensure an independent analysis, tracking program  performance against targets and variations in
performance rate in compliance with the established protocols. The project similarly provides for the
contracting out of surveillance and research, as the evolving status of the epidemic indicates, to complement
research initiatives undertaken by other CNLS partners as necessary. It is also anticipated that project
finances may support capacity-building in some of the national institutions currently carrying out data
collection and syntheses for the CNLS (such as The Center for Population, Training and Research,
(CEFORP) with an expertise in regular studies of HIV/AIDS- related behavioral change, and the system of
departmental and national data collection on STIs (SNIGS).
The project will also strengthen the technical secretariat of the CNLS in its role as the designated
mechanism to compile for the plenary meetings of the CNLS the biannual reports of all executing agencies
and partners working within the framework of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy. The first annual meeting
(April-May) would focus on the implications of the M&E based results of the past year's program of work
and the second annual meeting (October) would prepare/discuss/endorse the next annual work plan. Over
the life of the project, the PMU together with CNLS permanent secretariat will review the options for
meeting a more extensive need identified in the Gap analysis; namely the organization and dissemination to
implementing agencies of up to date information on AIDS prevention and care, best practices of existing
projects, research results and any other relevant reports.
(d) Financial management: The PMU will be responsible for project financial management, on the basis
of the Administrative, Accounting and Financial Manual prepared for the project. The first step will be to
carry out a time-bound action plan for the sound establishment of the project financial management system
to ensure preparation of quarterly project management reports acceptable to IDA. The PMU will monitor
project disbursements and ensure that they are in conformity with IDA requirements and will consolidate
and prepare the annual financial statements, in accordance with internationally accepted accounting
principles, at the end of each fiscal year. The PMU will also be responsible for making arrangements for
the certification of these annual financial statements by a competent and experienced audit firm under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA. The recruitment of auditors acceptable to IDA will be completed by
April 30, 2002. To ensure timely efficient disbursement and support for responsible management of funds
by the communities, a Financial Management Firm will be contracted to manage and provide accounting,
financial and disbursement reports for all the activities undertaken by communities, or by NGO's, private
sector and civil society organizations subcontracted to assist communities, in Component One of the
Project. This FMF should have local offices in the six national regions and should have an established and
sound reputation for responsible and adaptive management in facilitating direct financing to communities;
the FMF's local offices, would each include 2 staff dedicated to the financial management and
programmatic support of the Benin MAP project.
Financial management and M&E
Again on the basis of past experience, the Project already provides for the possibility of joining program
M&E with financial management. The FMF to be contracted to support the communities in their
- 15 -



implementation of activities under Component One, will be required to already have had experience in
combining program monitoring and financial reporting, since both of these elements are reporting
requirements in the grant agreements for communities. At the national level, it is also established that the
financial agreements and contracts which will facilitate the scaling up of the public sector response under
Component Two, will similarly combine reporting on financial management performance and program
results, allowing for an independent analysis and cross verification. At the CNLS wide level, the first
challenge for the PMU under Component Three is to support the technical secretariat in establishing the
wide and routine use of the common M&E indicator protocols by all CNLS executing agencies; the
consultative workshop on the Operational Manual held with stakeholders in August 2001, provided an
opportunity to both discuss and secure agreement from the participants on the proposed Program Indicators
(Annex 1) and to explain Bank guidelines regarding joint and parallel financing, as a first step towards the
possibility of combining financial and M&E monitoring at the CNLS level.
Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector        costs      % of   financing    Bank-
{US$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
Support to Civil Society Response                      11.31      44.5      11.00      47.8
Support to the public sector response                   9.25      36.4       8.14      35.4
(including the Ministry of Health)
Support to Management, Monitoring                       4.87      19.2       3.86      16.8
and Evaluation.
Total Project Costs                  25.43      100.0     23.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    25.43      100.0     23.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As in other countries participant in the Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Program (MAP), there is now a
consensus in Benin, that the fight against HIV/AIDS requires leadership that is beyond the capabilities of a
single Ministry, and even of the govemrnment, not withstanding the inclination of some government actors
and development partners to still favor a leading, rather than technical support role, for the Ministry of
Health in this multi-sectoral context. Therefore, the project has taken this opportunity to support the
following proactive policy and institutional changes:
*     Ensuring the appropriate amendments to the CNLS Decree No. 2001-231 and the timely
promulgation of the New CNLS Decree, to provide for a multi-sectoral Technical Secretariat to support the
CNLS, with comparable decentralized structures.
*     Ensuring support for the active participation of PLWHAs, and for the fullest range of civil society
actors from the private sector, unions, NGO's, confessional groups, traditional leaders and associations in
the functions of the CNLS at all levels.
*     Ensuring technical support and systematic capacity building to the Technical Secretariat of the
CNLS as a key contribution to the sustainability of Benin's National HIV/AIDS Strategy.
*     Ensuring technical and financial support for the preparation of an initial HIV/AIDS Action Plan by
every line ministry and relevant government agency, focusing on both the awareness raising and counseling
- 16 -



needs of the staff themselves, and the identification of support for decentralized community targeted
activities relevant to the Ministry's national mandate.
*      Ensuring technical and financial support to the relevant line ministries to address the
gender-responsive legislative and regulatory reforms identified in the National HIV/AIDS strategy.
*      Ensuring progressive promotion of collaboration between government ministries, whilst privileging
execution of the ministerial Action Plans through partnerships with the private sector, NGO's and
associations.
*      Ensuring support for the PNLS Unit of the MOH, both to scale up specific activities of its
technical mandate, undertaken in the framework of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy, and to underpin its
technical support role vis-a-vis the other sectoral Ministries, in the formulation of their HIV/AIDS Action
Plans.
*      Ensuring empowerment of communities to design/implement/monitor their own responses to the
HIV/AIDS pandemic, by scaling up to nationwide level, the experience in Benin to date of the provision of
direct technical support for this process to communities, in tandem with the transfer of funds directly to the
bank accounts of both community groups and village committees.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
By scaling up ongoing efforts in the fight against HIV/AIDS, involving all sectors, sensitizing and
mobilizing public and private stakeholders at all levels of society, over a period of 4 years, the overall
project benefit will be that the prevention of HIV/AIDS and the treatment of PLWHA's will no longer be a
subject about which ordinary citizens are embarrassed to speak in public, linked with increased community
and national empowerment to confront this challenge to Benin's social and economic development.
Social Benefits:
Important short and medium term social benefits of the project will be:
(1) the strengthening/establishment of social support systems, such as counseling services and support
groups for PLWHAs, HIV/AIDS orphans, families or caregivers, including those services provided by
traditional practitioners, with the objective of reducing the current economic and social burden on patients
and the affected families;
(2) increased access to HIV/AIDS testing and any necessary medical treatment for prenatal mothers;
increased access to quality blood bank services and increased access to appropriate management of STI; all
factors which will benefit both the individuals concerned and contribute to slowing the transmission of
HIV/AIDS;
Important longer-term social benefits of the project will be:
(1) reduced social stigma attached to HIV/AIDS, which over time, will increase the possibility for the
earlier detection of the disease;
- 17 -



(2) changes in social and sexual attitudes and behavior will contribute to reducing the overall rate of
transmission.
Institutional benefits:
Important short and medium term institutional benefits of the project will be:
(1) increased capacity and commitment of stakeholders at all levels of the CNLS (government and civil
society actors) to collaborate, implement and manage their proposed interventions effectively;
(2) increased capacity for intersectoral coordination at the policy level, providing for more focused
strategies and better use of resources in Benin's fight against HIV/AIDS.
Tar2et Population: The project targets the whole population. It aims at sensitizing, mobilizing and
empowering the nation's population, which can only be achieved through activities which try to reach out
to everyone in their specific circumstances.
(1) Communities (urban and rural), private sector organizations, sectoral ministries, public organizations
and agencies, and the CNLS are the categories of the stakeholders targeted by the different project
components;
(2) NGOs, traditional associations, professional and occupational organizations, faith-based associations,
and private agencies are the key intermnediaries targeted by the project, to accompany and support the
communities through the participatory process of developing and executing their IIIV/AIDS Subprojects.
(3) The project provides for activities to be targeted, in so far as such targeting (of a high-risk group or a
high-risk locality) is identified as a priority by a community, or a sectoral ministry (such as Defense and
Transport) or the CNLS. The individuals or groups of the estimated 160,000 people currently living with
HIV/AIDS in Benin are likely to figure high on a community's list of priorities. Other target groups might
include: young females 12-24 years of age; young males 15-29 years, cross border long distance lorry
drivers and nationwide taxi drivers, the high risk groups located at Hilla Condji and Krake Plage on
Benin's borders with Togo and Nigeria, male and female military and police personnel, commercial
sex-workers, male and female migrant workers; families and street children who scavenge on dump sites.
Target high-risk transmission localities might include: markets and crossroads, bus stations, lorry/rail and
ship terminals, and social establishments such as bars and dancing places.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project management
The institutional and implementation arrangements for the project, together with the project management
arrangements, are specified in a detailed operational manual (OM), which was finalized during appraisal
and recently validated by a national consultative workshop with stakeholders.
The project will be placed under the management oversight of the CNLS, which is chaired by the President
of Benin, and whose members are drawn equally from government and civil society. It is envisaged that the
New CNLS Decree will provide for the composition of the CNLS in three complementary fora: (1) the
decision-making plenary assembly of all members of CNLS, which will annually identify national program
priorities and approve programs and global budgets of the various executing agencies/ financing partners;
- 18-



(2) the CNLS technical secretariat, a multi-sectoral unit of 6 seconded public sector professionals, with no
program execution functions, but tasked with collating the program plans and reports of results from
different executing agencies and partners, analyzing and consolidating these documents for review/approval
of the biannual plenary CNLS, and keeping the CNLS updated on the results of the national
monitoring/evaluation prograrn and related research; (3) a consultative group composed of the Vice
Presidents of CNLS, its technical secretariat, with financing partners and donors to be invited, in an
observer status, to collaborate on advocacy initiatives and to clarify available financial resources and
proposed programs in support of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy.
In this institutional context the PMU, with a staff of 6 private sector professionals subcontracted by the
Borrower's Ministry of Planning, will function alongside and in a support role vis-a-vis the CNLS
technical secretariat. The PMU, like the CNLS technical secretariat, has no program execution function;
its role is to subcontract with a full range of actors in the private and public sector in order to facilitate the
effective and efficient execution of the project, as specified in the annual project plans and budgets
approved by CNLS and the Bank, and to ensure technical assistance and capacity building for the CNLS
technical secretariat.  The PMU  will establish an independent "ad hoc" procurement evaluation
commission, to process in a transparent manner, and in compliance with the OM, all the national level
project related bids, proposals, contracts and financial agreements. No members of organizations eligible
for financing subproject or Action Plans can be a member of this Commission.
For the institutional implementation and administration arrangements to support the response of civil
society to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, as already noted in the earlier discussion of project financial
management, the PMU will contract a Financial Management Firm whose role will be to administer the
program and financial planning and provide accounting and disbursement reports for all the activities
undertaken by the grant assisted communities, or by NGO's, private sector and civil society organizations
subcontracted by the FMF to assist communities, in Component One of the Project This contract will
require the FMF to have local offices in the six national regions and to have an established and sound
reputation for responsible and adaptive management in facilitating direct financing to communities; the
FMF's local bureaux, would each to include 2 staff dedicated to the financial management and
programmatic support of the Benin MAP project. The various decentralized levels of the CNLS, all of
which draw on existing multi-sectoral public/private sector, reach as far as the Village HIV/AIDS
Committees (CVLS). These decentralized CNLS structures will provide a network of collaborators to be
mobilized by the communities with facilitation support of the local FMF staff. The members of the CNLS
at the level of the "arrondissement" will make up the "approval committee" for the community HIV/AIDS
subprojects. Regionally experienced NGOs, confessional agencies, traditional associations, and private
sector organizations will also be subcontracted by the local FMF staff, to provide technical assistance, and
support to communities and particular community groups, as well as contribute to the monitoring and
evaluation of their activities.
Role of partner agencies:
It is envisaged that the revised decree regarding the CNLS will provide that the executing partner agencies
will include the following: the PNLS Unit of the Ministry of Health; the HIV/AIDS focal points/units of the
respective sectoral Ministries and public sector organizations; the organizations of civil society (such as
intemational and national NGOs, private firms and professional groups traditional associations) which
provide support and services to the communities, and the communities themselves. In the framework of the
CNLS, an important function of their role as executing agencies, will be to provide their annual program
plans and programs results for coordination discussions at the CNLS biannual meetings. In this context,
these agencies are also potential collaborating partners for the implementation of the proposed project.
Those partner-fenancing agencies, which along with the Bank, are "invited" members of the CNLS
- 19-



Consultative Group, have various roles in that forun. These include advocacy with the Borrower, and
supporting the coordination of programnming and financing for the execution of the National HIV/AIDS
Strategy.
During the past nine months, the Bank has carried the rotated responsibility of chairing the Benin UNAIDS
Committee. In Benin, the partner agency members from the UN System include the World Bank, UNDP,
UNFPA, WHO, UNIHCR and the WFP; the bilateral government members are USAID, European Union,
French Technical Cooperation, CIDA, Swiss Development Cooperation, GTZ, etc. All these members with
support from UNAIDS were very active in contributing both technically and financially to the process of
elaborating the National HIV/AIDS Strategy.  Two consultations have been convened during the
preparation of the proposed Project to clarifzy the oh;jectives of the proposed Project in the context of the
overall MAP approach, and more recently to consolidate understanding of the need to ensure that the draft
decree establishing the CNLS clearly provides for the multi-sectoral approach foreseen by the National
HIV/AIDS Strategy.
As specified in the gap analysis, all these partner agencies and UNAIDS members continue to be active and
largely complementary in the domains of technical assistance, staff training, provision of equipment and
services to support the Borrower's efforts to limit the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The proposed
project support for the CNLS role in the two areas of: (I) effective coordination of interventions; and (2)
management of program information and standardized M&E protocols will strengthen the collaborative
role of partner agencies. Discussions have also begun to identify in which ways UNAIDS partners might
choose to participate in the supervision missions for the proposed project, and will be formalized during the
project launch.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(1) The team chose the option of a project design providing "support to response of the public sector" with
a Health Sector subcomponent, over the alternative of a specific component for Hlealth. In so doing the
team took account of the opportunity provided by the 6/2002 closing date of the IDA financed Health and
Population project, to ensure the continuation of financing through the MAP, to complement the support of
other partners, but to scale up selected existing Health Sector initiatives in Benin's fight against HIV/AIDS.
The team chose to do this within a project design which emphasizes and makes financial provision for the
specific technical support role (rather than the previous leadership coordination role) that the Health Sector
now has re other public sector organizations, as its contribution to mobilizing a multi-sectoral response to
the epidemic. The Benin MAP's US$23 million credit over 4 years reflects the gap financing required to
scale up the existing activities. With government arv4 other developnmf t pa'hL ers financing at some US$3
million a year, the Credit provides the necessary 1 SS5. 75 million per yea, whlich is required to achieve
basic national coverage of comrnmunity rnobilizateion preventive antenatal and blood screening and
counseling/care for PLWHA's.
(2) In light of Benin's successful experience with different models of field based programmnatic support
and direct financing for empowering communities to plan and execute their own development plans, the
team rejected the option of choosing one model over the others, but has incorporated the best practices and
lessons learned into the proposed contract with the FMF, which will be required to have the necessary
national outreach coverage required for genuinely scaling up the empowerment of comnunities against
HIV/AIDS.
- 20 -



(3) Despite all the entire group-specific data collection of the past years and the increasingly more defined
understanding of which behaviors in which part of the country may characterize higher risk groups of the
population, the team rejected the option for project interventions to be targeted exclusively towards
populations at high risk of HIV infection. Such an approach is not consistent with the MAP framework,
which is based on the premise that everyone is at risk, and/or affected or infected, for which the most
appropriate response is the mobilization of diverse and locally owned multi-sectoral activities.
Nevertheless, the team considers some "targeting" (in the sense of working with specific target groups such
as PLWHA's) as unavoidable and the project will support eligible activities with such groups as associated
with community Subprojects.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Health and Population Project     Component for HIV/AIDS            S             S
Prevention;
Institution Building (National
Program for Fighting
AIDS)-US$SI0 million
Other development agencies
USAID                             Plea by Policy Project; Social
Marketing with PSI and IEC
Canadian Cooperation              Interventions Support with
Professional Sex Workers in 2
departments of Benin
(Atlantique and Mono)
FAC                               HIV Prevalence Surveillance
and IEC
WHO                               Human Development Support
and Financing of NGOs.
UNAIDS                            Care of Persons Living with
HIV/AIDS,Plea, and Strategic
Planning
UNDP                              Care, Hunan Development and
Equipment Support
Swiss Development Cooperation     Support to Departmental
Sanitary Center (Zou-Borgou)
GTZ                               Care, Human Development and
Equipment Support
European Union                    Awareness among
Students and Sex Workers
about HIV/AIDS's mode of
spread
UNFPA                             Integrated Approach for
-21 -



HIV/AIDS through 3 small
Programs: Reproduction
Health, Sexual Health and
Family Planning; Population
and Development Strategies,
and Plea
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design draws in particular from the experience gained in the design and implementation of
MAPI Countries, and in the lessons summarized in the recent MAP 1 "Progress Review Mission".
Scaling Up: It became clear that one of the biggest challenges for the implementation of Benin's National
HIV/AIDS Strategy will be the range of different measures needed to scale up existing initiatives. As
confirmed by the Gap Analysis, several excellent initiatives launched by the Borrower, NGOs and
development partners are in execution, with less active commitment from most of the sectoral ministries to
date. However, 16 years after the first reported patient with HIV/AIDS in Benin, the geographic coverage
and range of services and preventive activities provided by these initiatives meet only a fraction of the
nationwide needs, which must be addressed if there is to be a hope of limiting the spread of HIV/AIDS in
Benin. The procedural and substantive strategies for scaling up in Components One and Two include: (1)
Mass national mobilization: the mass national IEC campaign at project launch, and thereafter as an annual
nationwide event, is to build on existing efforts, (which are project specific, in defined areas and focused on
sensitizing and informing target groups) by consolidating over the life of the Benin MAP, a nationwide
mobilization of urban and rural communities, to assume their responsibility for taking the necessary
preventive measures, including consultation with and providing support to PLWHA's; (2) Simple,
accessible, but robust implementation mechanisms: the generic selection criteria for proposals from
communities and sectoral ministries, have already been agreed on during appraisal, and are already
publicly available in the operational manual; approval of the community HIV/AIDS subprojects, on the
basis of the very successful in-country experience will be handled at the lowest feasible level of the
decentralized administration, namely the "arrondissement level"; (3) Expansion to national coverage and
quality assurance for core technical areas of intervention: the MCT screening, blood transfusion safety,
improved access to management of opportunistic diseases and care counseling support for PLWHA's and
their families, and the implementation of sectoral action plans from a broader set of ministries.
Community Behavioral Change
The 18 country workshops on community participation and HIV/AIDS in Mwanza, Tanzania in June 2000
provided extensive discussion of several documented examples which adequately demonstrated that
behavior change can be achieved through community participation-based identification and implementation
of HIVAIDS action plans (Tanesa (Tanzania), Gaoua (Burkina Faso), Abengourou (Ivory Coast).
Application of such community participation methodologies, already applied successfully by the Benin
Ministry of Rural Development in its extension outreach services, has been piloted by the same ministry
during project preparation to promote HIV/AIDS behavior change at the village level. The crucial role of
the traditional leadership at the village level, (in Benin, such leadership is often the local traditional
practitioner) to bring HIV/AIDS into the domain of public discourse, as a first step away from social
stigmatism of PLWIHAs, and the equally crucial importance of recognizing the potential communal and
individual risk associated with the high level of daily mobility and seasonal/periodic travel in and out of the
village by certain groups of the population are key factors to have emerged from this experience. These
findings have been incorporated into the design of Component One.
- 22 -



Contracting-Out
This is an essential instrument for scaling up existing initiatives, and on the basis of positive experience
with this approach over the past 5 years, in a series of Rural Development Credits, Social Fund Credit, and
an Urban Services and Transport Credit; contracting-out is a key "cascade" mechanism for supporting the
implementation of each project component; namely: Under Project Component One, the Project will
subcontract for technical assistance and financial management support, with national and international
NGO's, private sector agencies and civil society associations, in all three categories of activities: (1) the
social mobilization (at national and local level), training and Subproject preparation; (2) the execution of
the community Subprojects by the communities themselves; and (3) the execution of community-based
HIV/AIDS preventive and provision of care activities by private sector organizations, NGOs and other civil
society organizations. The PMU will contract out for the implementation of activities at the national level;
at the regional level, a contracted Financial Management Firm will also subcontract other stakeholder
agencies to assist the communities in the development and implementation of their HIV/AIDS Subprojects.
Under Component Two, both non health public sector ministries and organizations will implement their
action plans through collaborative partnerships and subcontracts with civil society agencies and
associations; in the health sector, the five core areas of intervention will be both implemented by
government and under subcontracts to the private sector and non-governmental agencies.  Under
Component Three, the PMU will contract out for technical assistance and implementation of activities in all
4 areas of responsibility in communications, capacity building, monitoring and evaluation and financial
management.
implementing across sectors and the CNLS as a "coordinating" body
The inherent bureaucratic hurdles to be "overcome" when engaging multiple sectoral ministries in program
implementation, within the framework of a newly created national public/private forum are self evident and
experience to date with other MAP credits confirns the problems with turf conflicts and the consequent
need to define specific roles for the public sector/private sector and civil society actors, and to have clear
service standards with regular oversight from key stakeholders. In designing the project the team has
sought to incorporate such checks and balances. To minimize bureaucratic inertia, the sectoral Ministries
will essentially compete on equal terms, according to transparent criteria, for the resources available to
support their action plans; once approved by an independent CNLS commission, a financial agreement
specifying performance and reporting requirements will be entered into by CNLS, PMU and the relevant
Ministry or public sector organization and the advance of funds deposited directly to the given mninistry or
public sector organization account. At the forefront of all discussions about the role of the CNLS technical
secretariat, and on the details to be specified in the revised CNLS decree, it has been consistently clarified
that the secretariat has a facilitating and program coordination role; it will not implement programs (which
is the role of the CNLS executing partners) and it does not take decisions over the national HIV/AIDS
program plans and budgets (that is the role of the CNLS itself).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
(A) The preparation of the second medium-term plan (1994-2001) which launched the Government's
multisectoral approach to the PLNS, and the Borrower's full compliance with the MAP criteria (all detailed
in Section B2) substantiate the sustained political commititment of the Borrower to fight HIV/AIDS.
- 23 -



The following additional indications of continuing borrower commitment include:
(B) The participatory and consultative nature of the MAP project preparation and appraisal process has
involved a team of multi-sectoral government and key civil society stakeholders. At identification, a 5-day
brainstorming with this Benin team led to the specification of project objectives and the outlining of the
main components.
(C) At the national level, the government continues to seize opportunities to keep the issue of HIV/AIDS at
the forefront of the public agenda. July 30th-August 2nd 2001, the government hosted the 4-day, 5 country
(Benin, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Nigeria and Togo) workshop on the subregional HIV/AIDS Project for the
Abidjan-Lagos Transport Corridor. With the financial support of USAID, the technical assistance of the
UNAIDS inter country Team for West and Central Africa, and facilitated by the World Bank, mixed teams
of program professionals/decision makers and civil society activists from the participating countries met,
under daily press coverage, to discuss the draft concept document for the proposed subregional project.
The potentially significant role of the cross border, cross-country transit movement of passengers and
transporters in the transmission of HIV/AIDS in Benin, (cf section B2. 1) is an issue publicly recognized by
the Government
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added of Bank support is three-fold. First the Bank has a comparative advantage in mobilizing
substantialfinancial resources for scaling up the national program. While many donors are supporting the
national program, the Bank has represented the single largest source of funding over the past five years,
and is likely to continue playing a pivotal role. Moreover, Bank funding can play a catalytic role within
Benin, in attracting additional funding from other development partner. Second, the Bank, through its
macro dialogue with the country on the PERAC and PRSP, is in a position to assist the Borrower in
mainstreaming a multi-sectoral approach to HIV/AIDS, within the country's overall financial and
development strategy. Third at the regional level, the Bank is playing a key role in the reorientation of the
response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, away from it being seen as a medical issue, towards it being
understood as a development issue, and is therefore well positioned to assist the Borrower to make use of
available regional experiences, and adapt them to the Benin context. Benin's participation in the MAP will
provide opportunities to network with other countries supported under the umbrella operation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Mobilization of grant resources: To be able to cover the cost of HIVIAIDS program in Benin, the
proposed IDA credit alone will not be enough. Although other donors are funding the program, additional
grant resources are being sought. It is envisaged to organize a donor round table shortly to mobilize
additional resources.
- 24 -



Allocation of HIPC resources: It was specified in the HIPC documents that HIV/AIDS should be one of
the priority areas to allocate resources stemming from the debt reduction. During appraisal, the team
secured confirmation that HIPC resources will be used for funding eligible sector specific strategies.
Fiscal Impact:
Given that this is a multi-sectoral project, supporting both public sector and civil society responses to the
HIV/AIDS epidemic, the fiscal burden of the project is expected to be negligible for several reasons. First,
the recurrent costs of the project are low. Second, given the nature of the project activities, investment
costs are not expected to involve operation and maintenance in the future. Third, annual disbursements by
the project are low in comparison to government current expenditures, and government counterpart
contributions are not high. In addition, a large portion of the resources will be directly channeled to support
the civil society initiatives rather than to finance government initiatives.
3. Technical:
As per the umbrella MAP project, the project follows internationally accepted best practices for an
HIV/AIDS response, as validated by UNAIDS. In particular, the Borrower's National IHIV/AIDS Strategy
is structured around; (1) the needs of different categories of the population; (2) different categories of
interventions; and (3) the institutional framework to facilitate the mobilization of efforts to meet those
needs. One of the most important features of the strategy is that in discussing how to apply the different
categories of interventions to support the different categories of the population, examples of the different
activities which can be undertaken by the different technical sectors of the government and civil society, are
provided. On this basis the project has been structured around providing support for the response of: (1)
civil society; (2) the public sector; and (3) the institutional capacity required to mobilize this response. The
project design provides for civil society and the public sector to formulate their responses, and provides
financing for them to implement them. The generic eligibility criteria are not intended to be prescriptive or
restrictive, but simply to serve as a reference framework for the CNLS, the PMU and their respective
decentralized actors, to support, monitor and evaluate project activities.
4. Institutional:
See Section C3.2 (Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project) and Section C3.4
(Institutional and implementation arrangements).
4.1 Executing agencies:
See section C3.4 Institutional and implementation arrangements, (para 2); and the role of partner agencies.
4.2 Project management:
See section C1.3. (Support to Project management, monitoring and evaluation) and section C3.4
(Institutional and implementation arrangements; para 1 Project Management).
4.3 Procurement issues:
The findings of the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Benin was completed in April
1999. Despite some discrepancies, inconsistencies and delays reported in the approval phase of the
procurement process, no special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Development
Credit Agreement for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), since the Borrower's procurement practices
allow IDA procedures over any contrary provisions in local regulations. Procurement for small works,
goods, and services will be carried out under all three project components (See above: 2. Fiscal Impact).
For components 2 and 3 it is possible to arrive at a reasonable estimate of the relative mix of these
categories of procurement. For Component 2 drugs and medical equipment will be procured through
international competitive bidding, except for the drugs and medical equipment for government agencies.
-25-



These latter purchases will continue to be made through contracts with the established channels for
medicine supply unit CAME (Centrale d'Achat des Medicaments Essentiels). However, due to the demand
driven nature of the community-based initiatives in Component 1, the types of activities and their
procurement details will depend on the needs identified by the beneficiaries. Funding for these activities
will be in the form of grants to which beneficiaries may choose to contribute in kind or in financial
resources. The Bank guidelines for simplified procurement and disbursement for community-based
investments will be applied for procurement under this component of the project. These simplified
procurement and disbursement procedures have been included in the (OM) for the project to empower the
beneficiaries in conducting their own procurement as may be indicated by their HIV/AIDS action plans.
These guidelines also include the (1) negative list of items excluded under this component; (2) the average
of US$1,000 and a ceiling of US$3000 per annum per community request.
Procurement will be carried out by the PMU for facilitating activities in all three components and
Consultant services would be procured according to guidelines on the use of consultants (January 1997,
revised September 1997 and January 1999). The PMU would be responsible for ensuring compliance with
all the OM guidelines, and ex-post reviews of a random sample of the sub-projects of Component 1, and of
sub-contracts and financial management agreements undertaken by the PMU and executing agencies in all
3 components, will be conducted periodically by the Bank and independent consultants appointed by the
Government.
Details on the procurement procedures and arrangements are provided in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The disbursement arrangements must be supple, combining adequate but simple requirements with efficient
procedures, to ensure the timely flow of funds to finance the different categories of activities foreseen for
the different components of the project. To this end, two Special Accounts A and B, will be opened in a
commercial Bank, under the responsibility of the Project Coordinator and the Project Financial
Management Specialist.
Special Account A: Financial Flows for Component 1: support to response of civil society:
The resources of this Special Account will be exclusively used for the financing of subprojects initiated by
communities, registered associations (social, occupational, professional, religious groups, NGOs and
private sector unions. The project will use the financial management services of a Financial Management
Firm (FMF) that would have been well established to affect the transfer of funds required by this
component. Under the contract between the FMF and the CNLS, six project Second Generation Special
Accounts, (SGSA) will be opened in the six local offices of the FMF. As soon as the decision to finance a
Subproject has been taken by the local level review and selection committee (an entity completely
independent of FMF) the approved Subproject proposal will be forwarded to the appropriate local FMF for
financing. After having promptly completed the necessary checks for compliance with financial
management procedures, CDLS and the departmental FMF will then enter into a grant agreement with the
authorized representatives of the community which will implement the relevant Subproject, and
simultaneously release the first tranche of funds, the release of the second tranche beirifg subject to the
sub-project's compliance with both program and financial management reporting requirements specified in
the manual.
The first payment to each of the six SGSA managed by the local FMFs will be calculated on the basis of an
estimated 90 days of expenses, the total sum of this first payment will be applied for by the PMU and will
then be transferred to local FMF. The PMU would submit quarterly expenditure reports indicating the
-26 -



sources and use of funds and accompanied by reconciled bank statements. Replenishment of these
sub-accounts will be on the basis of the disbursements effected to finance the community sub-project
agreements facilitated by the respective departmental FMF. As it might have been already established
practice, each departmental FMF will be required to provide simple justifying documentation, in the form
of SOE's to ensure replenishment of their respective sub-accounts. When submitting replenishment
requests, the PMU would ensure that the reconciled bank statements for the special accounts, in the
standard format, show the deposits received from IDA, the amount advanced to each decentralized project
location, the date on which each advance was made and the amount awaiting documentation from each of
these locations. In addition, each FMF local bureau will justify the use of their resources under the SGSA
or replenish their SGSA on a monthly basis.
Special Account B: Financial flows for Components 2 and 3
Component 2: Support to the response of the public sector
The independent CNLS commission will review the action plans of the sectoral ministries, including the
MOH, and other public institutions, and following approval of the plans provision will be made for 2
different categories of disbursement modalities required.
a) Arrangements for the financing of the purchase of medical equipment, medical supplies, laboratory
reagents, condom, IEC equipment, and consultant services for various studies and for technical assistance
to support the formulation of the sectoral action plans fall in this first category. For the purposes of
efficiency and economies of scale, the established procedure for financing activities with IDA resources will
be applied, following the related established procurement requirements, resulting in either Direct Payment
or payment from the Special Account B, with the justifying documentation to be held centrally by the
PMU. The responsibility for implementation and monitoring of the specific activity so financed will be held
by the sectoral ministry or public sector organization, whereas the PMU will merely execute the relevant
payments, as per the instruction of the Ministry or institution, within the context of the given Action Plan.
b) Interventions and initiatives (foreseen within these action plans) but requiring small scale funding, such
as discrete training or awareness raising activities, or a work program, of a series of various related small
scale initiatives, will all fall into this second category. In order to avoid the impact of the slow rate of
mobilization of human and financial resources usually associated with the public sector, following the
approval of the sectoral action plan, the given ministry or public institution will sign the related financial
agreement and open an account in a conmnercial bank, the Administrative Director (DA) and the
HIV/AIDS focal point of the ministry or institution being the only signatories. Just as in the case of the
Component 1 Subprojects, a first advance payment will then be deposited to the Ministry or public sector
organization/agency 's account.
Component 3: Support for project management:
These finances will cover consultant services, audits and operating costs (as specified in the DCA). The
project coordinator and the financial management specialist will access and replenish funds as needed, on
the basis of their joint signatures, and in compliance with established procurement and disbursement
procedures established by IDA for such project management units.
See section C 3: Support to project management/ financial management and monitoring and evaluation;
and Annex 6.
- 27 -



5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The August 2001 management decision that all MAP projects are to be considered as Category B came
during project appraisal; consequently this summary covers the steps taken to date, the issues raised and
the irnmediate steps now to be taken, to ensure the required compliance.
Steps taken to date
The various issues associated with the management of hospital waste, in its specific relation to the
management of HIV/AIDS waste, had in fact already been explicitly raised with the Borrower during the
December 2000 Identification mission. The identification mission had pointed out that in many countries,
the inappropriate handling of HIV/AIDS infected materials constitutes a risk not only for staff in hospitals
and in municipalities who are involved in waste handling, but also for families and street children who
scavenge on dump sites. The mission had also already confirmed that some aspects of the proposed project
implementation (e.g., the establishment of testing clinics, the purchasing of equipment by communities for
home care of the sick, etc.) could constitute an increase in the environmental risk with regard to the
handling of HIV/AIDS infected waste.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Following up on these issues, the appraisal team (7/30-8/14) examined in more detail: the quality of
hospital and HIV/AIDS waste management by both hospital and municipal authorities, the level of the
related personnel's knowledge about safe waste management, and the availability of appropriate equipment.
The appraisal mission ascertained the following:
(a) As of 1995, within the terms of its own Environmental Health Management Plan (EMPH), the Ministry
of Health has required that the construction plans and equipment for new Health Facilities, at all levels of
service provision, must include hospital waste incineration capacity.
(b) To ensure this Waste Management capacity is also available in those Health facilities constructed
before 1995, the Borrowers Medium Term PIP 2001-2004 also provides for financing the purchase and
installation of incineration facilities in the pre 1995 health facilities.
(c) Under this current Public Investment Program (PIP), a Ministry of health designed and locally
constructed model incinerator is being provided for the most decentralized health facilities, with
appropriately more complex imported models complying with intemational norms being allocated for the
more centralized health facilities.
In light of these findings the project would provide for systematic training and capacity building (on the
subject of HIV/AIDS waste management) of all health personnel rtsponsible for managing existing
Incineration and Waste Management Units in medical facilities.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Final draft will be required by Bank
01/31/02
Following recent management decision to consider all MAP projects as category B, intemational expertise
has been immediately recruited to initiate the process of assisting the Borrower to prepare a comprehensive
Clinical Waste Management Plan, for completion as a condition of effectiveness.
- 28 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Both during the identification and appraisal mission the MOH was consulted specifically on the
Government's policy and the status of clinical waste management (See Section E 5.1 and 5.2 above).
Specific groups to be consulted during the preparation of the Clinical Waste Management Plan will include:
(1) the national association of PLWHAs and affected families; (2) the implicated sectoral ministries (i.e.
Environment/National Resources and Urban Planning; Public Works and Transport; Social Protection;
Tourism); (3) managers/owners of private companies subcontracted for municipal waste collection and
disposal; (4) Public Health personnel responsible for oversight of the hospital and health facility clinical
waste management; (5) the manufacturers of the locally constructed incinerators; street children, owners of
bars and dance halls, residents near and scavengers of waste dumps; and (6) members of CNLS at different
levels of decentralization.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project has used the UNAIDS framework of grouping indicators by categories; specific to this project,
the categories to be monitored are indicators of: social mobilization; mother to child transmission, blood
safety, care and support, and policy. On the basis of stakeholders consultation the M&E manual for
applied use by all executing agencies in the project is in preparation. This simple and common framework
will permit standardized monitoring of project financed activities and will be available for CNLS
discussion with a view to establishing a nationally common set of HIV/AIDS reporting indicators.
Following completion of the Clinical Waste Management Assessment, it will be possible to identify an
appropriate category of simple monitoring indicators, for inclusion in the appropriate category (i.e. social
mobilization, care and support, policy) in the common M&E project manual. The project already makes
provision for any additional research studies that may be required.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Experience in other countries confirms that special measures should be taken to protect the rights of
PLWHA. From the outset, the Benin HIV/AIDS project team has included consultation with PLWHA in
the preparation and design of the project, so that they themselves could flag critical issues and identify
appropriate actions and modalities. Representation of the PLWHAs at every level of the CNLS is now
ensured, and project implementation now provides for support to PLWHAs as an association or within
their community HIV/AIDS subprojects, or from NGO/private sector executing agencies of the project.
Increased coverage and improved quality of care services for PLWHAs, and consequently improved quality
of life for them, is the anticipated social development outcome.
Neither in formal law, nor in practice, do women have equal rights with men in Benin, and in cultural
practice, especially in the countryside, women often have no public voice in social or sexual matters. In
Benin, the virus is transmitted predominantly through heterosexual contact, and while women, children, and
commercial sex workers are the key groups with increasing rates of infection, or at very high risk, men play
a predominant role in the continued transmission of the HIV virus in their regular/seasonal trading and
social migrations. As a consequence, the second and increasingly significant way in which the virus is
spread is through mother to child transmission. In both scenarios the socially disempowered status of
women is a powerful underlying factor.
- 29 -



The project provides for increased coverage of HIV/AIDS testing/counseling /treatment for prenatal
mothers, and increased availability of quality services for treatment of STIs. A reduction in the number of
HIV/AIDS infected children and reduction in the STI transmission rates, (resulting in improved quality of
life for the implicated children, women and men) are the anticipated health/social development outcomes.
The project also provides for advocacy and technical assistance to continue the necessary legal and
regulatory reforms required to legally and socially empower women and children, social issues which are
brought into high profile by the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The National HIV/AIDS Strategy identifies the
following legal domains and regulatory measures for action: new laws and regulations to establish the
rights of women in divorce, and in polygamous marriages; and in inheritance; regulations to effect the
already approved decree abolishing the charge required of "apprentices" for their release from employment;
regulations to apply existing legislation to ensure the full protection of the law for children in "difficult
circumstances"(i.e. orphans; children placed with families under the "vidomegon" system).
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Stakeholders                                 Participation in the program
Project design and preparation: involvement of  The project is the product of a series of government
stakeholders                                 actions, followed by participatory work done by the
key stakeholders at the national level with leadership
from the World Bank. The working group included
representatives from the key ministries, PNLS,
PLWHA associations, and NGOs already active in
fighting HIV/AIDS. Consultations have also been
held with UNAIDS partners at the various stages of
project preparation. A consultative workshop for key
stakeholders to review and validate the project
operational manual was held before negotiations and
stakeholders were also involved in the preparation of
the monitoring and evaluation framework
Project Implementation:                      Communities and other eligible groups will
Rural, urban, and special communities        participate by drawing up priority action plans in
participatory exercises. Their Subprojects will be
financed by the project under rules to be discussed
with the beneficiary groups, and such groups will be
assisted to design and implement a permanent
process of social monitoring.
People living with HIV/AIDS                  People living with HIV/AIDS will be represented in
the CNLS committees at all levels (national, regional,
and communal) and are eligible for care services and
support by communities and private sector groups
whose action plans are financed by the project.
Sector organizations                         To ensure full involvement of all organizations in the
sector, priority ministries and private organizations
will participate on the CNLS coordination
committees and will help develop and implement
sector-specific HIV/AIDS strategies.
NGOs, civil society, religious groups        Civil society organizations will be sub-contracted to
- 30 -



develop and implement the "support to civil
society's response" (Component 1) and "support to
the public sector response" (Component Two) within
specific terms of reference and budgetary envelopes.
The field activities of and the use of funds by these
organizations will be subject to routine supervision.
UNAIDS Partners                             Collaboration will continue in 3 specific ways: (1)
UNAIDS partner agencies along with the Bank will
be members of the CNLS "consultative group"
advising the CNLS secretariat on program plans and
financing for the execution of the National
IHIV/AIDS strategy; (2) As consultative members of
CNLS and financing and executing partners,
UNAIDS agencies will also participate in the
application of the common M&E framework;
(3)UNAIDS partners will be invited to participate in
project supervision missions.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs will be involved as implementing agencies, especially in the community-managed response
component. The role of NGOs will be to sensitize and assist communities in the participatory process of
preparing and implementing their HIV/AIDS action plans. The OM spells out the procedures and criteria
for identification, selection and contracting of NGOs. During project launching, workshops will be
organized to discuss and agree with the potential implementing agencies on the methodologies, work
organization, budgets, supervision mechanisms, and procedures for financial control.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Technical Secretariat of the CNLS will have on staff a community development specialist who in
collaboration with the M&E specialist of the PMU would monitor the changes regarding women and
marginalized groups in society.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The key project indicators (Annex 1 and the M&E Annex) include gender responsive indicators (discrete
health status; community activities indicators, and behavior change indicators). These indicators have been
developed in line with the UNAIDS recommended indicators for M&E of HIV/AIDS programs, and: (a)
compliance with reporting within the project M&E framework will be required of all project executing
agencies including communities; (b) this M&E framework and format has already been agreed to at a post
appraisal stakeholders workshop and at negotiations; it will be proposed to the CNLS as the standard
format for validation and adoption by all CNLS executing agencies at credit effectiveness. Conmmunities
will carry out their situation analysis, following the model of a participatory diagnostic, and they will
include simple social indicators, consistent with the project M&E framework as part of their action plans,
and as a means of self monitoring their activities.
- 31 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Systematic training and capacity building (on the subject of HIV/AIDS waste management) of all Health
personnel responsible for managing existing Incineration and Waste Management Units in medical
facilities. Consequent to the categorization of all MAP projects as Category B, (8/2001) the following
additional provisions have been made:
Using available PHRD funds, the appropriate international expertise has been contracted to initiate the
process of assisting the Borrower to prepare a comprehensive Clinical Waste Management Plan.
The Borrower agreed during negotiations that completion with full costing of this Clinical Waste
Management Plan is a condition of effectiveness; the draft plan is already being circulated for technical
comments.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The risk factors that may affect sustainability are primarily those of lack of adequate capacity at a
sufficient scale: whether it be required of NGO's and CBO's in their role of supporting and empowering the
country villages and urban communities; or of the Ministry of Health, in its role of assuring basic national
coverage and quality of key preventive and care services related to the transmission and treatment of
HIV/AIDS; or of the CNLS technical secretariat and CNLS partners in their role of organizing and
consolidating the national studies, detailed facilities monitoring, data collection and analysis needed to
inform the management of the implementation and forward planning of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy.
Other risk factors relate to the reality that dealing with HIV/AIDS involves working publicly in the
sensitive areas of sexual health and 'behavior; in Benin the social stigma associated with HIV/AIDS is
directed at PLWHA's rather than CSW's.
Politically, the project is expected to be sustainable because its point of departure is the leadership and
commitment shown by government, and the current strong ownership of the Ministries of Finance, and of
Plan, of the MOH and the five Sectoral Ministries which have already developed and launched the
execution of their own Sectoral HIV/AIDS Action Plans in the past 3 years. To tackle the issue of
organizational and technical capacity, the Project support for strengthening the capacity of the CNLS to
- 32 -



oversee the national program, and for reinforcing, extending and consolidating this government ownership
among the remaining 16 sectoral ministries, is expected to establish a sound and broad basis for sustaining
such activities. The Project also privileges institutional capacity building in the public, private and NGO
sectors, and in the fornation of public/private partnerships in all activities, at the national, regional and
local levels, at all stages of implementation, as a key mechanism for building sustainable social capacity to
manage the country's response to the epidemic. The project mechanisms, designed on the basis of the
established successful in-country experience with extensive subcontracting and direct financing to empower
innovative development approaches by village and urban communities, are expected to bring early
successes in the scaling up and replication of existing HIV/AIDS preventive activities and care services for
PLWHA's, which will both help generate sustained support, and stimulate further replication.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Govermment reverses or fails to follow-up   M         Detailed discussion of sub-contracting
on the strategy to implement HIV/AIDS                 arrangements with stakeholders in Government
program through multitude of                          and among civil society to ensure ownership of
sub-contracting organizations                         the proposed implementation arrangements.
Severity of their condition, social         S         National IEC Launch and iterative awareness
rejection, and personal reluctance of                 campaigns to support village and urban
PLWHA prevents their self-organisation                community recognition of their role in the care
as an association for access to project               of PLWHA.
support.
Proactive outreach by national and decentralised
Project staff.
In the interests of patient privacy and
confidentiality, established village level
committees will be eligible to develop proposals
with and manage financial resources for
Associations of PLWHA.
Committment by the 21 Sectoral              M         Technical and financial resources are available
Ministries, key state organisations and               to the Ministries for the preparation and
pfivate sector employers is not sustained             execution of their HIVAIDS Action Plans; those
5 Ministries which have already successfully
drafted and launched the execution of their first
plans will advise others on the basis of this
experience.
Adequate capacity in the Ministry of        S         The design of each of the three project
Health and CNLS technical secretariat                 components privileges capacity building for
and among CNLS partners to organise the               both the Borrower and civil society; one of the
required training, studies, detailed                  specific roles of the PMU is to ensure timely
facilities monitoring, data collection and            and sustainable technical resources in capacity
analysis is not available                             building are available to both the CNLS
technical secretariat and to the Ministry of
Health.
- 33 -



From Components to Outputs
Sufficient capacity to ensure the           S         Iterative organization of national level and
implementation of the project is not found            decentralized workshops by PMU and
among NGOs, CBOs, etc.                                decentralized Project technical staff to mobilize
existing capacities in private sector and civil
society, and to ensure capacity building when
needed.
PCU and decentralized technical staff to
annually evaluate NGO and CBO contract
performance.
The Borrower fails to organize the related  S         The project provides for sustained international
staff training, and the purchase /                    technical assistance to support the Borrower's
distribution of supplies of HIV/AIDS test             Ministry of Health in this complex but urgent
equipment and medical treatment in a                  task; the project also provides for "punctual"
timely manner.                                        TA from Benin's UNAIDS development
partners. In addition, the project will be
managed by a PMU that will be established
within the Technical Secretariat of the CNLS
The Borrower fails to ensure timely         S         The project provides for technical support for
deposit of funds, nominally allocated for             the formulation and financing of the execution
the support of the execution of these plans           of the Ministries initial Plans; with the increased
in the Annual National Budget.                        number and improved quality of such sectoral
(Authorized by Decree 8/2000)                         plans, and their experience in execution, the
integration of these plans in the annual budget
will be more feasible.
The national IEC and mobilization           M         The project provides for the mobilization of the
campaign, over the 4 years of the project,            extensive coverage of the existing 55 Rural
will not reach Benin's remote                         Radios network; complemented in follow-up by
communities i.e. ("lake conrmunities"                 the enlistment of the traditional leaders of
"river migrant communities" and remote                villages and kingdoms as the local "animators"
villages.)                                            of CNLS.
The PMU does not launch nor sustain         M         An existing IDA funded project (Health &
appropriate capacity building for the                 Population Project) provides for both the CNLS
technical secretariat of the CNLS, in a               technical secretariat and the PMU to be
timely manner.                                        established and to launch preparatory activities
for the first year before project effectiveness.
Mechanisms to organize efficient and        N         Program will sub-contract financial
effective provision of technical and                  management and transfer of resources to private
financial resources directly to the                   sector, with decentralized technical staff
communities are not set in place in a                 providing continuous monitoring and follow-up.
timely manner, leading to delays in                   Iterative study to identify and alleviate
transfer of funds between financial                   constraints and causes for any delays in the
institutions from the national to the                 transfer of financial resources to the
decentralized level; from the decentralized           communities.
level to the communities resulting in
delays for communities in accessing
project resources.
Overall Risk Rating
- 34 -



Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Public discussion of sexual matters and sexual behavior remains taboo and there is an associated very high
level of stigma associated with HIV/AIDS and towards PLWHAs. The social marketing of condoms, in
the context of advocacy for responsible and safe sexual behavior remains contrary to certain belief systems
and compounds the level of social stigma associated with HIV/AIDS.As one means of empowering
PLWHAs and launching a change in the public perception of them, the project provides for: (1)
participation of PLWHAs in all levels of the CNLS, (2) support for PLWHAs either indirectly and
anonymously through the financing of community Subprojects; or indirectly through project financed
support from NGOs and faith based agencies; or directly through financing of a Subproject of an
association of PLWHAs.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)   the Borrower has issued the new CNLS Decree, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, and the several units or committees to be established under the new CNLS Decree,
including a technical secretariat at CNLS and the Decentralized Committees of CNLS, have been
established each in a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the
Association;
(b)   the Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution of the Government has been
deposited;
(c)   the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, the Administrative, Accounting and
Financing Manual, and the Monitoring and Evaluation Manual, all in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association;
(d)   the Borrower has adopted a procurement plan for the implementation of the Project during the First
Project Year;
(e)   the Borrower has established the PMU in a manner and with functions and resources satisfactory
to the Association, and with the following staff: a Project coordinator, a HIIV/AIDS specialist, a
financial management specialist, a monitoring and evaluation specialist and a procurement
specialist,
(f)   the Borrower has established an accounting and financial management system for the Project
satisfactory to the Association;
(g)   the Borrower has employed the Financial Management Agency under conditions and  terms
satisfactory to the Association;
(h)   the Borrower has adopted a Clinical Waste Management Plan (CWMP) in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Project covenants would include:
(a)    The Borrower shall implement the CWMP, in a manner and according to a timing satisfactory to
the Association.
- 35 -



(b)    By the end of the First Project Year, the Borrower shall adopt a master plan for the development of
a comprehensive monitoring and information system to monitor the HIV/AIDS epidemic in its
territory on an ongoing basis, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
(c)    By the end of the First Project Year, the Borrower shall adopt a comprehensive baseline study to
allow evaluation of key performance indicators related to HIV/AIDS issues, including
epidemiological and behavioral aspects of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, in form and substance
acceptable to the Association.
(d)    By November 15 of each year during the implementation of the Project, commencing on November
15, 2002, the Borrower shall submit to the Association for its review and comments its draft of: (i)
the program of activities to be carried out under the Project during the following year; and (ii) the
related budget and procurement schedule. The Borrower shall, in preparing the final version of
such program, budget and procurement schedule, take into account the comments made by the
Association. By each calendar year during the implementation of the Project, commencing on
December 31, 2002, the Borrower shall adopt the program of activities to be carried out under the
Project during the following calendar year, and the annual related budget and procurement plan, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
(e)    The Borrower shall by April 30, 2002, employ the independent auditors.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 I. b) Not applicable.
a 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
I  3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
X 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Under the Japanese PHRD Grant, consultants prepared an Implementation and M&E Manuals which were
reviewed at a national workshop held in August after the appraisal and prior to the negotiations. Within
two months after Board presentation, these Manuals will be completed and validated by the CNLS since
this is a conditionality for effectiveness.
A consulting finn was hired to prepare the Administrative, Accounting and Financial Management. The
manual will be completed within two months after Board presentation since this is a conditionality for
effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
El 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
- 36 -



OP/BP 10.02 requires that when audit costs are financed by the Bank, (a) the audit firn should be selected
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants and (b) disbursed
under the operating costs category. As an outcome of consultations between the client and the Task Team,
it was decided that the costs of the annual independent audit would instead be allocated to and disbursed
from the "Constants services" category, instead of the "operating costs" category.
issoussi              Joseph B   -Dwomoh                Antoinette M. Sayeh
*   /TeatLeader            Sector Manager/Director           Country ManagerlDirector
- 37 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BENIN: Multi-Sectoral HIVWAIDS Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators  i:    _:;_::::     _______;: ___: Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sector related CAS Goal
Contribute to poverty      Poverty indicators in samples Documents on socio-economic The country does not record
alleviation by promoting   of urban and rural        surveys                    any major economic, social or
human development          communities                                          political crisis
Project Development        Outcome / Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Build capacity in both civil   (i) HIV prevalence rate  MOH sentinel surveys    No unexpected massive
society and the public sector to among pregnant women aged                      migratory phenomena
scale up and diversify their   15-24 seeking prenatal
efforts to stabilize the   consultation at sentinel sites                       No significant sociopolitical
transmission of HIV/AIDS by  would be reduced by at least                       unrest
empowering active community 5% in reference to the
participation and multi-   baseline study by the end of
sectoral govemment        the Project
initiatives.              (ii) HIV prevalence rate   MOH sentinel surveys       Adequate political
among people seeking                                 commitment
treatment for sexually
transmitted infections (STIs)
would be reduced by at least
8% in reference to the
baseline study by the end of
the project
(iii) Percentage of pregnant   Special sentinel surveys, GTZ
women aged 15-24 attending  survey, SIDA-2 Project
antenatal clinics who test
positive for syphilis would be
reduced by at least 2% in
reference to the baseline by
the end of the Project.
(iv) HIV prevalence among   MOH sentinel surveys
core transmitters groups
(Commercial sex workers,
truck driver, youths, etc.)
would decrease by 20% in
reference to baseline survey by
the end of the Project
(v) Percentage of households  DHS, UNAIDS population
with a chronically ill adult   survey
aged 15-49 who have in the
last twelve months received
free extemal help in caring
for the patient or replacing
lost income would increase by
20% in reference to baseline
survey by the end of the
Project.
- 38 -



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                      Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component I
Increased knowledge,       1.1. Number of community  -Progress reports from     - Agreement from
organizational capacities and  organizations         intermediaries             decentralized authorities and
resources in communities  (villages/specific groups)    -Progress reports from  opinion leaders.
and/or associations to    established, trained and   regional coordination units   Government commitment to
effectively implement     elaborated their subproject                           implementation of national
activities for the fight against through the participatory and                  HIV/AIDS program by
AIDS                      planning exercise would                               partnerships with civil society/
range between 1300 and 2000                          private sector and NGO's.
in at least 50% of the villages
by the end of the Project.
1.2. Number of Community  -Subproject proposals and
HlV/AlDS Committees       completion reports
receiving support to      -Progress reports from
implement their Subprojects  intermediaries
would be: Yl: 100/150; Y2:  -Progress reports from
150/225; Y3: 200/300; Y4:   regional coordination units
200/325; Total: 750/1000.
1.3. By the end of the Project, -Subproject proposals and
at least 2500 community   completion reports
Subprojects would be      -Progress reports from
successfully completed    intermediaries
1.4 Number of self-sufficient  -Progress reports from  -Reluctance of PLWHA to
and functioning PLWHA     regional coordination units   reveal their identity and
support groups and        -Beneficiary Assessment    organize themselves into
associations will be at least:  Studies              associations
Y I: National Association with
at least 25 members.
Y2: 6 Regional Associations
with at least 25 members;
Y3 20 Communal
Associations with at least
10 members;
Y4: 40 Communal
Associations with at least 10
members and networked with
the National Association.
Component 2
2.1 Strengthened and      2.1.1. By the end of the   Sector Action Plans        Sustained commitment by the
expanded response of      Project at least 15 ministries                        21 Sectoral Ministries, key
non-health public sector  and 30 public sector                                  state organizations and private
organizations and significant organizations would have                          sector employers.
private sector agencies to the  formulated their action plans.
impact of HIV/AIDS on their
- 39 -



staff and the implications of
the epidemic for the
orientation of their Sectoral
programs and business plans
2.1.2.Percentage of public  Number of sector organization
sector education institutions   HIV/AIDS Action Plans
with HIV/AIDS integrated
into their curriculum would
increase by 100%.
2.2. Enhanced quality of care  2.2.1. Percentage of women   Special Studies (Health   Adequate capacity in Ministry
and availability of health care testing for HIV positive at    Facility Surveys), Training    of Health and CNLS
services and information for   antenatal clinics who are  Reports                     secretariat and partners to
the prevention, care and    provided with a complete                                  organize the training, studies,
treatment of HIV/AIDS/STI.  course of ARV therapy to                                  detailed facilities monitoring,
prevent mother to child                                  data collection and analysis
transmission will be at least                            required.
50% by end of the Project.
2.2.2. In those facilities where Special Studies (Health
blood units are transfused the Facility Surveys), Annual
percentage that have been   Health Study.
screened for HIV according to
national guidelines will be
100% by the end of the
Project.
Component 3
Reliable data on the evolution Effective 2nd generation  Quarterly reports to CNLS.   The secondment by
of the epidemic             surveillance system, linking                              Government of appropriately
(HIV/STI/knowledge/attitudes/ epidemiological and behavioral                          skilled staff to the Technical
behaviors) and program results surveillance established by end                        Secretariat of the CNLS is
are regularly disseminated and of first 18 months for CNLS                            effected in a timely manner.
used by decision-makers in   reporting.
formulating policy decisions
and strategic interventions.
-40 -



Key Perfornance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                      Crtical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
Component I
Increased knowledge,       1.1 By the completion of the  Progress reports from  - Sufficiency of competent
organizational capacities and  Project, number of people in  intermediaries.    NGOs and other executing
resources in communities    implementing agencies    -Progress reports from     agencies.
mediated by support from   mobilized to implement the   regional coordination units.
associations, NGOs and     Support to Civil Society
decentralized             Response Component would
structures competent to   be at least 200 women and
accompany them in the fight  200 men i 50% of the
against AIDS.              communities at least.
1.2 Number of NGOs/civil
society organizations or  Progress reports from
associations implementing    intermediaries
AIDS activities funded by    -Progress reports from
program would be: Yl: 10;   national/regional coordination
Y2: 20; Y3: 30; Y4: 40; Total units.
100.
1.3 By the completion of the
Project, grants provide to
community to finance
subprojects will amount to
$6,000,000.
Component 2.
2.1. Mobilization of      2.1.1. Number of non-health  Focal Point Reports      Appropriate choices for
non-health public ministries  ministries and public sector   Project Reports.   ministerial and agency focal
and private sector        agencies with appointed focal                         points.
organizations to respond  points to animate and catalyze
proactively to the HIV/AIDS  their Action Plans would be at
epidemic.                  least 50 by the end of the
Project.
2.1.2. National Budget (2.9   Annual National Budget  Increased mobilization of
million in Budget Year 2001) Quarterly reports to CNLS.   Ministries and private sector
to sectoral ministries for                           agencies by project and other
HIV/AIDS action Plans to be                          CNLS Partners is fully
at least US$ 5 million by year                       effective.
4.
Ministry of Finance makes
timely deposit of funds
nominally allocated to
sectoral Ministries and the
CNLS in the Annual National
Budget.
- 41 -



2.2. Significant increase in   2.2.1 Percentage of (public    Training report    Adequate capacity in Ministry
relevance and quality of   and private) health agents    Special Studies (Health  of Health and CNLS
training of public and private  trained and retrained in  Facility Surveys), Annual    secretariat and partners to
sector health agents, in the    techniques of prevention of   Health Study.      implement the training, and
use of equipment, medicine   HIV/AIDS/STI's transmission                         sustain the
and preventive techniques,   in health /care facilities .                        purchase/distribution of
and in the application of that                                                   medical supplies in a timely
training for the accurate                                                        and coordinated manner.
identification and appropriate
care of HIV/AIDS patients.   2.2.2 In those health facilities
that are stocked with drugs to  Health Facility Survey and
treat common opportunistic   clinic stock records.
infections the percentage of
those which will also provide
palliative care and report no
stock-outs in the past twelve
months would be 100% by the
end of the Project.
2.2.3 Percentage of antenatal
clinics that offer counseling
and voluntary testing for HIV  Special Studies (Health
staff, or that refer clients to   Facility Surveys), Annual
VCT services would be 50%   Health Study.
by the end of the Project.
2.2.4 Number of traditional
healer and TBA's trained and
equipped with the correct  Annual Traditional Healer
information on the prevention Evaluation, Special Study.
of HIV/AIDS/STI would be
192 by the end of the Project.
Component 3
1. National IEC and capacity  3. .Existence of an     Quarterly reports of the PMU  The national IEC campaign
building for mobilization  operational computerized MIS and the annual reviews of the  will reach even Benin's "lake
campaign is launched by    system containing information CNLS.                   communities", "river migrant
PMU in the context of the  on evaluated effective                                communities" and remote
National HIV/AIDS Strategy  intermediaries for the IEC                           villages.
and is effectively sustained in  campaign and those involved
reaching decentralized levels  in follow-up support for
of all 12 Departments through communities
the first year.            by the end of Year 1; with
annual revision.
3.2. Existence of an       Quarterly reports of the PMU
operational computerize    and the annual review and
system containing information report of the CNLS.
on community, subgroup
projects and key indicators be
established by the end of 18
months.
- 42 -



3.3 Airtime allotted on Radio  Centralized and decentralized
Stations covering the fight    monitoring of Radio Station
against HIV/AIDS would    emissions by decentralized
increase by 100% in reference PMU staff and CNLS actors.
to baseline study.
2. Effective organization of  3.2.1. Sectoral Ministries will Quarterly reports of the PMU  The 16 Sectoral Ministries
and timely provision of the   have prepared and begun  and the annual review and    and significant private
Technical support and     execution of their 2 nod   report of the CNLS.        agencies respond fully to the
capacity building required by  HIV/AIDS Action Plan by end                      opportunities provided by the
the remaining 16 Sectoral    of Year 2.                                         Technical assistance and
Ministries and significant                                                      financial resources available
private sector agencies to  3.2.2. The remaining Sectoral Quarterly progress reports    under the project.
formulate and implement   Ministries will have prepared
their Action Plans against    and begun execution of their  Quarterly progress reports,
HIV/AIDS.                 HIV/AIDS Action Plans by   supervision reports
the end of Year 1.
3.2.3. Minimum of 5
significant sector        Quarterly progress reports,
organizations will have   Annual evaluation reports,
prepared and begun execution Supervision reports
of their HIV/AIDS Action    Annual strategic action plans,
Plans by end of 18 months.   Meeting reports
3. At Project outset, a prompt 3.3.1. Number and coverage   MOH sentinel sites  The PMU launches and
launch of capacity building    of sentinel surveillance sites                   sustains appropriate capacity
for the Technical Secretariat  (II sites currently) would be                    building for the technical
of the CNLS, Department of  at least 17 (of which 4 are                         secretariat of the CNLS, in a
Health and partner agencies,  rural) by Year 4.                                 timely manner.
in the establishment and
management of sustainable   3.3.2. Number of special  Research reports
data systems for the analysis,  studies conducted and
monitoring and            reported on HIV prevention,
communication of the      knowledge behaviors care and
findings on the evolution of   support would be 12 by Year
the HIV/AIDS pandemic in   4.
Benin.
3.3.3 Percent of annual   Annual evaluation reports
evaluations disseminated
according to schedule outlined
in the M&E manual (annual
evaluations for the health
sector, traditional healers,
finance and ptocurement,
community response, sector
response) would be 100%.
- 43 -



3.3.4. Percentage of        Quarterly progress reports,
operational                 and annual review.
research/evaluation studies
where results are discussed,
adopted/applied in subsequent
program design and
implementation strategies by
the CNLS would be 100% by
year 4.
4. Provision of appropriate    4.4.1. Before start of Project,  Report by recruited staff prior Mechanisms to organize
technical support and timely  the technical and financial    to effectiveness         efficient and effective
financial support for       management staff for the                                  provision of technical and
community level planning and PMU and the 5 local outreach                             financial resources directly to
execution of HIV/AIDS       units are contracted.                                     the communities are set in
activities, consequent to the                                                         place in a timely manner.
mass national mobilization    4.4.2. Before the start of the
campaign.                   project, qualified auditors are  The first two quarterly
contracted to ensure ex-post   progress reports in Year 1
control of resources by
communities, sub-contracting
agencies and HIV/AIDS
Subprojects at various levels.
4.4.3. All of the necessary
equipment for the functioning
of the Project Management    Annual and quarterly budgets
Unit and the Local Units is   and action plans
procured and put in place
within the first six months of
the project.
4.4.3. Within the first 6
months, the PMU program
staff at all levels are trained in Quarterly progress reports
management, monitoring and
evaluation procedures for the
project.
4.4.4. Number of meetings
held by CNLS would be at
least 8 by end of Year 4.    Quarterly progress report
4.4.5. Percentage of time
spent in the field by all Project
Management Unit staff
(including two "open"
multi-sectoral Bank
supervision missions per year)
would be about 50%.
- 44 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BENIN: Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Project Approach
A number of general points are worthwhile highlighting. First, the Project has been designed in line with the
MAP framework, to the extent that it aims at expanding the national response by improving access to funds
for all stakeholders and by broadening the range of interventions to be supported. Second, the proposed
operation aims to build on Benin's decentralization process and existing structures (whenever possible)
rather than to set up new structures and procedures. Third, capacity building is a central and critical
element of the Project and has thus been integrated in each Project component. Fourth, a special effort has
been made to involve People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and their associations in the design and
implementation of program activities. Finally, particular attention has been given to gender issues in the
design and execution of program interventions.
Given the above points, the Project will support the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS- Strategy
(published 12/2000 on the basis of a 2-year broadly consultative process) and expects to tackle the
prevalence and impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, through mobilizing and supporting responses developed
by local communities and by each key sector of the governnent and eligible institutions. The main focus
will be on scaling up existing prevention activities and on the treatment, care, and mitigation support
provided to people infected or affected by HIV/AIDS.
No organization nor sector in the country has the capacity or resources to take on the HIV/AIDS challenge
alone. To meet this challenge, the government has chosen to work through a multitude of implementing
agencies. The fight against HIV/AIDS has been started on many fronts, explicitly by attempting to draw on
all available capacity (in private and public sectors, among NGOs, civil society, religious groups,
traditional practitioners, community-based organizations). In addition, to complement other resources (the
national budget and the technical and financial resources comnmitted by UNAIDS partner agencies), the
Project will help establish and strengthen the institutions and mechanisms needed to sustain the effort
against HIV/AIDS over the next ten to fifteen years.
The Project will support the implementation of the National HlV/AIDS Strategy through three core
components: support to the (1) response of civil society; (2) response of the public sector (including the
health sector) and (3) coordination, management, monitoring, and evaluation.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$11.31 million
Component 1: Support to the Response of Civil Society
The principles of community-based participatory development and the financial mechanisrns for providing
support to communities, which underpin this component, have benefited from the experience gained from
the implementation of several IDA-financed credits in Benin involving such community-based execution
and management of activities (the Social Fund, the Pilot Rural Development Support Program of Borgou,
the Pilot Community-based Forestry Management Project, the Food Security Project). The Project will
provide technical assistance and financial support to three broad types of activities: (1) social mobilization,
training, and Subproject preparation; (2) execution of the community Subprojects by the communities
themselves; and (3) execution of community-based HIV/AIDS preventive and provision of care activities
by private sector organizations, NGOs, and associations of civil society. The Project will support the civil
-45 -



society response through three subcomponents.
Subcomponent 1: Strengthening the institutional capacities of the community-based organizations and the
civil society organizations, carrying out awareness-raising campaigns, training, and community
Subprojects preparation
The point of departure and sustained stimulus of the two broad types of activities to be implemented under
this component will be the strengthening of the institutional capacities of the community-based
organizations and the civil society organizations, the awareness-raising campaign, followed by the training
of trainers at the national level and thereafter at all other levels of decentralization ,which will be launched
and facilitated by the Project Management Unit (PMU) and the unit's regionally based staff, at the outset of
the Project. This IEC campaign and training cycle will be repeated annually, following evaluation and
feedback on the results and obstacles for the program to date from the decentralized departmental level
HIV/AIDS Committee's (CDLS) provided for by CNLS. The Project provides for the local PMU teams to
subcontract NGOs and private agencies possessing the required expertise to support communities in the
planning, executing, and monitoring of their HIV/AIDS Subprojects, and for collaboration with field staff
of the core Ministries of Rural Development, Social Protection, and Health, thus ensuring the
empowerment of about 35 percent of Benin's communities in their fight against the epidemic by the end of
the Project.
Subcomponent 2: Community grant for executing Subprojects
The concept of community is used here in a generic sense. By convention, a rural community is a village or
group of small villages and hamlets that share a common cultural history and social identity. In urban
areas, the term can designate people sharing a common identity who live in a specific area of the town. In
both urban and rural areas, the term also designates a group of people with common occupational,
professional or social interests, such as women's groups, youth groups, and workers' groups. On the basis
of the participatory training, and follow-up support/capacity building for their community-based analysis
and planning process, the communities will develop their gender-responsive HIV/AlDS Subprojects, with
particular attention to ensuring inclusion of the concerns of those social groups who traditionally have less
voice (the young, women, pastoral nomads).
Simple criteria, including a limited negative list and a wide range of indicative examples of possible
activities, are available to guide this community in selecting its priority activities (Cf Operational Manual).
These tools are intended to support the community's careful analysis of the behavioral and socioeconomic
factors that, in their local society, could contribute to the spread of the HIV/AlDS virus and to recognize
any as-yet-unmet needs for support required by any community groups at high risk for HIV/AIDS, or by
any PLWHA, their orphans, or affected families. Experience elsewhere confirms that the preventive
effectiveness of the community Subprojects will depend in great part on the community's successful
identification of these contributing factors. A focus on such factors of transmission such as "razor blades"
(used for cutting hair, umbilical cords, and female genital mutilation), and scarring ceremonies is important
essentially in that these provide entry points for developing commnunity reflection on the underlying
dynamic of social relations, attitudes and behaviors that may place community members and their
community at risk. The daily and seasonal mobility of different age/sex and occupational groups of Benin's
communities is a classic example of such socio economic "potential risk" factors, taken together with
social attitudes and expectations influencing behavior and relationships between men and women. The
examples of community Subprojects activities to address such factors are provided in the OM for
illustration only. They can be usefully considered under three headings: (i) media and cultural event
communication activities to promote and valorize appropriate behavior change (such as dance/song groups
- 46 -



at village ceremonies); (ii) incentive mechanisms to ensure follow-up on such behavioral change
possibilities (collaborative training of tradipractictioners with local health personnel); and (iii) specific
support activities for PLWHAs and their affected families (village pharmacies' supplies).
The community HIV/AIDS Subproject proposals will be forwarded to the local "arrondissement" level
approval committee (CCLS or CALS) for review. Following successful approval, the Subproject proposal
will be forwarded to the relevant regional office of the Project, for prompt transfer of funds to the account
opened by the designated members of the community's HINV/AIDS committee (CVLS), following their
signature of a grant agreement with the relevant CDLS, the Financial Management Firm(FMF) and the
relevant community-based organization. Using the base formula (US$1 x number of population x year)
gives an average of US$1000 (with a ceiling of US$3000) per annum per community, encouraging
communities to plan and finance their activities on an iterative yearly basis. Of the 6000 communities in
Benin, (both urban and rural) that the Project is intended to reach with awareness raising campaigns over
its life, the Project is anticipated to finance an average of 100 community HIV/AIDS Subprojects per year
per department.
Subcomponent 3: Financial support to civil society organizations for executing prevention and care
activities for communities
This category of activities ensures both the fullest possible engagement of all civil society actors in
supporting and scaling up the response of urban and rural communities to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and
provides for attention to those needs that may well lie beyond the capacity of any single community to
organize. Therefore, private sector organizations, NGO and associations of civil society that are already
engaged in HIV/AIDS preventive or provision of care activities, or that have a particular expertise relevant
to the HIV/AIDS campaign, may also submit proposals. Those requesting financing to support the
expansion of effective existing initiatives that address the specific objectives of the Project will be given
priority. Examples of such proposals include activities such as Centers of Care for PLWHA, facilitation of
community-based support for HIV/AIDS orphans and affected families, promotion of collaboration with
the national and decentralized associations of traditional practictioners (TP's); support for HIV/AIDS
transmissions on Community Radio networks; and programs of anonymous voluntary testing and
counseling for HIV/AIDS in high risk/high prevalence zones, programs facilitating "peer group" counseling
among youth groups, and commercial sex workers. It is anticipated that such proposals would be prepared
in consultation with other relevant actors, such as the respective government Ministry or decentralized
administration, or the commnunities concerned. Furthermore, depending on the geographic coverage of the
activities in such proposals, the review/approval process will be with the decentralized approval HIVt/AIDS
committees (CCLS, CALS, or CDLS ). The grant agreement will be entered into among the relevant
CDLS, the FMF, and the relevant civil society organization, or among the CNLS, the PMU, and the
relevant civil society organization, as the case may be. For Subprojects estirnated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$15,000, the relevant civil society organization will enter into a grant agreement with the
relevant CDLS, and the local FMF; the Subproject will be approved at the CDLS level. Subprojects that
are estimated to cost more than the equivalent of US$15,000 and are to be implemented by a civil society
organization will be approved by CNLS based on criteria specified in the Operational Manual. The related
grant agreement will be entered into among the PMU, the CNLS, and the civil society organization. In any
case, Subprojects to be implemented by a civil society organization cannot exceed the equivalent of
US$35,000.
NGO and private sector stakeholders' participation in the consultative workshop on the OM held in August
01 has provided a timely basis for these potential executing agencies of the Project to become familiar with
the implementation guidelines and generic criteria, and to identify how they might contribute, in the
- 47 -



framework of the Project, to the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS strategy.
Project Component 2 - US$9.25 million
Component 2: Support to the Public Sector Response (including the health sector)
Consequent to the Project launch and annual nationwide awareness raising campaign, this Project
component provides for follow-up support for two categories of public sector activities: (i) non-health
sector line Ministries and public and private institutions at the national level to build their capacity to
elaborate and execute short- and medium-term HIV/AIDS action plans, and (ii) the Ministry of Health to
contribute to the expansion of the coverage and improvement of the efficacy of 4 specific interventions in
its program of activities to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS.
Subcomponent 1: Non-health sector Action Plans
Among the non-health sector line Ministries, the Project will mobilize the 16 of 21 Ministries that have yet
to launch their first HIV/AIDS initiatives; and will provide support to the Ministries of Rural Development,
Defense, Education, and Youth and Tourism to deepen and expand their current action plans. Of the 50 or
so other public sector organizations or agencies, the National Assembly, both the universities, the Port
Authority, and various associations of the judicial system are examples of key actors.
The sectoral Action Plans will detail how the Ministries and eligible agencies would initiate or strengthen
their fight against HIVIAIDS, indicating collaborating partnerships with their related decentralized entities
wherever possible. Sectoral Action Plans could be organized (not restrictive) around two core themes: (1)
awareness raising /advocacy and counseling to  encourage   appropriate behavioral change or
sociopsychological support needed among ministerial staff themselves, and (2) initiatives related to the
specific technical or sectoral policy mandate of the Ministry, or the public sector organization or agency
and its constituencies. Proposals for the limited provision of equipment (such as audio-visual tools) are
anticipated within such plans.
Examples of eligible activities related to the first theme might include:
-      Capacity building: training of focal points at all levels of decentralization, in their role as a
catalyst, to enable line Ministries and institutions to initiate, coordinate, and sustain these activities
-      Initial staff IEC program backed up by regular staff updates of information on the HIV/AIDS
epidemic in Benin (CNLS reports)
*      Review of any necessary statutory reform or related change in regulatory practices, in light of the
patient! employees' and affected families' right to confidentiality of their health status and privacy.
Examples of eligible activities related to the second theme might include:
*      Study of the current and Projected impact of WHV/AIDS on the respective ministerial sector of the
economy (as per the 8/2000 decision of the Council of Ministers) for discussion at CNLS
*      Nationwide initiatives to be undertaken by decentralized field staff in support of local communities
*      Gender-responsive sector-specific HIV/AIDS communication plans in Ministries responsible for
public service facilities.
Once approved by the technical secretariat of the CNLS, these activities will be funded through direct
transfers of funds to the respective line Ministries or public sector organizations or agencies, on the basis of
a financial agreement to be signed between the CNLS, the PMU, and the relevant public sector
organization. The financial agreement will include specified program and financial performance indicators
(combined monitoring and evaluation) with continued support being contingent on satisfactory annual
- 48 -



performance. The cost of these activities or action plans will range from US$15,000 to US$50,000. With
the evolution of Project execution, Ministries will be encouraged to consolidate their Action Plans with
other related sectors, and to seek additional financing through partnering shared program activities with
private sector organizations. Participation by sector Ministries in the consultative workshop on the OM in
August 2001 has provided a timely basis for the advance preparation of their Action Plans.
Subcomponent 2: Health sector interventions/activities
Regarding the Ministry of Health(MOH), the Project subcomponent provision for technical assistance and
financial resources for the PNLS will complement the government's annual budget allocation and resources
from external partners, and will support HIV/AIDS-related health activities and initiatives of both the
public and the private sector. The four areas of intervention are:
(1) Improved accessibility to HIV testing and counseling in 6 departrnental hospitals by (a) providing
equipment and financial accessibility to testing and counseling including subsidizing the HIV Elisa and
rapid tests, in sufficient quantity to cover the basic needs of transfusion, sentinel surveillance, and VCT
(including testing prenatal women); (b) improving the quality of pre- and post-test counseling; (c) further
expanding the prevention of mother to child transmission by helping MOH to put in place the conditions for
the introduction and expansion of access to HIV antiretroviral therapy (HART); and (d) developing the
safety of the related blood transfusions services, injections, and medical as well as surgical practices, by
establishing associated training programs including training on clinical waste management. Staff training
on prevention of mother-to-child transmission will include the use of the guidelines already defined for
Benin by the Pretrame Project.
(2) Improved prevention of HIV transmission by making STI treatments more accessible and affordable.
The Project will subsidize the supply of kits for STDs treatments and will finance a training program on the
syndromic approach of STDs.
(3) Improved quality and scale of provision of health care to persons living with HIV/AIDS by (a)
improving the physical and financial accessibility to the prevention and treatment of opportunistic diseases
as well as other treatments (anti-pain treatments, palliative care) for PLWHAs. In this regard, the Project
will finance a training program for health staff and will supply drugs to prevent and treat opportunistic
diseases. The International Union against Tuberculosis is largely supporting Benin in the provision of TB
drugs and related staff training. Thus, the Project will complement this by (b) supplying equipment for the
referral laboratory of the national program against TB and (c)by supporting the development of initiatives
and Action Plans from both public and private health institutions aiming at improving the provision of
health care to PLWHAs, including developing collaboration between health staff and traditional healers.
(4) Initiation of a systematic program of collaboration with the National Association of Traditional
Medicine Practitioners (NATMP) to improve the (a) qualifications and competence of TPs to fully
participate in the fight against HIV/AIDS, especially in the rural areas; (b) identification of effective
traditional treatments of STIs and opportunistic diseases (ODs); (c) scientific validation of selected
traditional treatments; and (d) collaboration between TPs/TBAs and government clinics.
(5) Support HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities for its staff.
This set of innovative activities will include developing an inventory of treatments used by healers to treat
sexually transmitted diseases and provide for the scientific validation of plant-based remedies used to treat
- 49 -



STDs and selected opportunistic diseases through field testing in departmental botanical gardens. The
Project provides for the possibility of a census of the TBAs and TPs in Benin, and the formalization of
their local associational networks as part of mobilizing their efforts to support communities' activities
against HIV/AIDS. Joint MOH staff and TP/TBA training will increase the level of understanding by TPs
of the causes and transmission of HIV/AIDS, the prevention of associated diseases, the value of condoms,
and the care and counseling of infected and affected persons. It is also intended to develop collaboration
between TPs and health staff in clinics and hospitals and in their communities to improve the provision of
care to PLWHAs.
The Project will finance the above activities as follows: (1) acquiring essential laboratory equipment and
reagents and other consumables, including the laboratory infrastructure needed to develop HART; (2)
acquiring tests and drugs for the prevention of the mother-child transmission of HIV/AIDS and for the
management of related opportunistic diseases; and (3) sustaining skills training and capacity building for
all decentralized levels of health professionals and their traditional counterparts, in particular for the
implementation of the CWMP; and (4) providing technical advisory services.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.87 million
Component 3: Support to Project Coordination, Management, and Monitoring and Evaluation
This component will finance the following activities: (1) strengthening the capacity of CNLS and PMU to
implement a coordination, management, monitoring, and evaluation framework for the Project through the
provision of technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of goods, equipment, and vehicles;
(2) strengthening the capacity of CDLSs, CALSs, CCLSs, and CVLSs to carry out the coordination,
monitoring, and evaluation of Subprojects, through the provision of training; (3) carrying out monitoring
and evaluation activities through the provision of technical advisory services; (4) carrying out accounting,
financial reporting, and disbursement functions related to the Subprojects to be implemented by a
community-based organization or civil society organization at a decentralized level, through the provision
of technical advisory services and training, the renovation and equipment of office space, and the
acquisition of vehicles; and (5) carrying out financial audits of the Project and of the FMF through
subcontracting.
Project oversight context
The institutional and implementation arrangements for the Project, together with the Project management
arrangements, are specified in the OM, which was finalized during appraisal and validated by a national
consultative workshop with stakeholders in August 2001. The Project will be placed under the management
oversight of the CNLS, which is chaired by the president of Benin, whose members are drawn equally from
govemment and civil society. As proposed in the new decree regarding the CNLS, the CNLS will be
composed of three complementary for: (1) the decision making plenary assembly of all members of CNLS,
which will annually identify national program priorities and approve programs and global budgets of the
various executing agencies/financing partners; (2) the CNLS technical secretariat, a multisectoral unit of 6
seconded public sector professionals with no program execution functions, but tasked with reviewing the
program plans and results reports of different executing agencies and partners, analyzing and consolidating
these documents for review /approval of the biannual plenary CNLS, and updating the CNLS on the results
of the national monitoring/evaluation program and related research); (c) a consultative group. composed of
the vice presidents of CNLS, its technical secretariat, with financing partners and donors to be invited, in
an observer status, to collaborate on advocacy initiatives and to clarify available financial resources and
proposed programs in support of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy. The activation of the CNLS
committees at the decentralized departmental, district, and arrondissement levels before the credit's date of
- 50 -



effectiveness, will help provide the framework for the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy
as even the current CNLS decree has made provision for these committees.
Overall Project management and implementation arrangements
In this institutional context, the PMU, with a staff of 6 private sector professionals subcontracted by the
Borrower's Ministry of Planning, will function alongside and in a support role vis a vis the CNLS technical
secretariat. Like the CNLS, the PMU technical secretariat has no program execution function. Its role is to
subcontract with a full range of actors in the private and public sector to facilitate the effective and efficient
execution of the Project, as specified in the annual Project plans and budgets approved by CNLS and the
Bank, and to ensure technical assistance and capacity building for the CNLS technical secretariat
(Component 3). The PMU will establish an independent ad hoc procurement evaluation commission to
process in a transparent manner, and in compliance with the Operational Manual, all the national-level
Project-related bids, proposals, contracts, and financial management agreements. No member of
organizations eligible for Project financing can be a member of this commission.
For the institutional implementation and management arrangements to support the response of civil society
to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, it is envisaged that the PMU will subcontract with the already referenced FMF
to handle support for program development/execution, and accounting, financial reporting, and
disbursement functions for the community-level activities. This subcontract will require the agency to have
regional offices in the 6 departments of the country, each with 2 staff dedicated to the financial
management and programmatic support of the communities planning and executing their HIV/AIDS
Subprojects. The FMF will manage the 6 Second Generation Special Accounts (SGSAs) to be opened in 6
departments to finance activities to be implemented under two subcomponents of Component 1
(Community grant for executing Subprojects; and financial support to civil society organizations for
executing prevention and care activities for communities). The various decentralized levels of the CNLS,
all of which draw on existing multisectoral public/private sector fora, reach as far as the Village H1V/AIDS
Committees (CVLS). These decentralized CNLS structures will provide a network of collaborators to be
mobilized by the communities with facilitation support of the FMF regional staff. The members of the
CNLS at the level of the "arrondissement" will make up the "approval committee" for the community
HIV/AIDS action plans. Regionally experienced NGOs, confessional agencies, traditional associations, and
private sector organizations will also be subcontracted by the PMU to provide technical assistance and
support to communities and particular community groups, as well as to contribute to the monitoring and
evaluation of their activities.
Four categories of activities
The PMU will be responsible for facilitating Project implementation within the framework of the National
HIV/AIDS Strategy and the CNLS. The objectives and related responsibilities for the PMU under the
Project can be usefully grouped in four categories: (1) Communications; (2) Capacity Building; (3)
Monitoring and Evaluation; and (4) Financial Management.
Category 1. Communications: The point of departure for the activities foreseen for all three Project
components will be the organization of the launch of the mass communications campaign by the president
of Benin and chairman of the CNLS, with multimedia for involving ministers of the core sectors of the
economy, sustained by the nationwide network of state, comrnmunity and private radio networks,
awareness-raising workshops at all levels of CNLS, and community-level cultural events. The PMU will
ensure annual mass communications initiatives through the life of the Project, executed by subcontracted
international and national communications specialists, whose task will equally include strengthening the
- 51 -



capacity of the CNLS technical secretariat and the CNLS forum to actively sustain comnmitrnent and
capacity in HIV/AIDS advocacy and awareness raising. A particular characteristic of this task will be the
challenge of standardizing the content and presentation of messages, given the diverse cultural traditions
and languages of Benin, and the need to coordinate with the Abidjan/Lagos corridor subregional MAP
Project in preparation.
Category 2. Capacity Building: At the national level, the focus will be on ensuring capacity building of the
newly established multisectoral technical secretariat of the CNLS, and of the sectoral line Ministries and
public sector organizations in the execution of their HIV/AIDS Action Plans. The PMU, together with its
local outreach staff, will focus on empowering communities through capacity building efforts targeted to
support their efforts to limit the spread of HIV/AIDS.
Category 3. Monitoring and Evaluation: As per the Gap Analysis, the core of the capacity building to be
facilitated by the PMU for the multisectoral technical secretariat to the CNLS will be to ensure the
secretariat's competence to focus on the strategic program implications of the results of the common
monitoring and evaluation framework and manual, which are being prepared in consultation with, and for
use by, CNLS executing agencies and partners. The Project indicators (Section 2.1-2.4 Annex I and the
M&E Annex) are structured according to the categorization of interventions and indicators established by
UNAIDS. These categories include behavioral change, social capacity for support to PLWHA,
counseling/care services for STIs, security of blood transfusion services, mother-child transmission of HIV
and voluntary testing and counseling. This single, simple, and standardized M&E tool will meet a key
need identified by the Gap Analysis and will make it feasible for meaningful data to be aggregated from
different executing agencies and different levels of decentralization of execution. It is also recognized that
it will be necessary for the PMU, in collaboration with the CNLS secretariat, to sustain stakeholders'
ownership and involvement by ensuring regular dissemination of findings and enlisting their feedback on
their experience with the manual. All M&E activities will be contracted out to external agencies/consulting
groups to ensure an independent analysis that tracks program performance against targets and variations in
performance rate in compliance with the established protocols. Similarly, the Project provides for the
contracting out of surveillance and research, as the evolving status of the epidemic indicates, to complement
research initiatives undertaken by other CNLS partners. It is also anticipated that Project finances may
support capacity building in some of the national institutions carrying out data collection and synthesis for
the CNLS, such as the Center for Population, Training and Research, (CEFORP), that have expertise in
regular studies of HIV/AIDS-related behavioral change and the system of departmental and national data
collection on STIs (SNIGS). The Project will also strengthen the technical secretariat of the CNLS in its
role as the designated mechanism to cornpile for the plenary meetings of the CNLS the biannual reports of
all executing agencies and partners working within the framework of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy.
The first annual meeting (April-May 2002) would focus on the implications of the M&E-based results of
the past year's program of work and the second annual meeting (October 2002) would
prepare/discuss/endorse the next annual work plan. Over the life of the Project, the PMU, with CNLS
permanent secretariat, will review the options for meeting a more extensive need identified in the Gap
analysis, namely, the organization and dissemination to implementing agencies of up-to-date information on
AIDS prevention and care, best practices of existing Projects, research results, and any relevant reports.
Category 4. Financial Management: The PMU will be responsible for Project financial management, based
on the Administrative, Accounting and Financial Manual prepared for the Project. The first step will be to
carry out a time-bound action plan for the sound establishment of the Project financial management system
to ensure preparation of quarterly Project management reports acceptable to IDA. The PMU will monitor
Project disbursements and ensure that they are in conformity with IDA requirements and will consolidate
and prepare the annmal financial statements, in accordance with internationally accepted accounting
- 52 -



principles, at the end of each fiscal year. The PMU will also be responsible for making arrangements for
the certification of these annual financial statements by a competent and experienced auditing firm under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The recruitment of auditors acceptable to IDA will be completed
by April 30, 2002. To ensure timely, efficient disbursement and support for responsible management of
funds by the communities, a Financial Management Firm (FMF) will be subcontracted to handle
accounting, financial reporting, and disbursement functions for two subcomponents (community grant for
executing Subprojects, and financial support to civil society organization for executing prevention and care
activities for communities) for the community-level activities in Component 1. This financial management
firm should have offices in the 6 departments of the country and have established a sound reputation for
responsible and adaptive management for facilitating direct financing to communities. Each local bureau
of the FMF will have 2 staff dedicated to the financial management and programmatic support of the Benin
MAP Project.
Financial management and M&E
Again on the basis of past experience, the Project provides for the possibility ofjoining program M&E with
financial management. The FMF should be already doing this in its management and its staffing. The grant
agreements to be entered into with communities and with civil society organizations, respectively, and the
associated reporting requirements on financial management performance and program results will continue
this practice in the implementation of Component 1. At the national level, it is also established that the
financial agreements and contracts that will facilitate the scaling up of the public sector response, similarly
will combine reporting on financial management performance and program results, allowing for an
independent analysis and cross verification. At the CNLS-wide level, the first challenge for the PMU is to
support the technical secretariat in establishing the wide and routine use of the common M&E indicator
protocols. The August 2001 consultative workshop with stakeholders on the Operational Manual provided
an opportunity to explain Bank guidelines regarding joint and parallel financing, as a first step toward the
possibility of combining financial and M&E monitoring at the CNLS.
- 53 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BENIN: Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                  US $million    US $million    US $million
Support to Civil Society Response                            10.80          0.50         11.30
Support to Public Sector Response (including the Health Sector)  4.04       5.20          9.24
Support to Project Coordination, Management, Monitoring &     3.58          1.28          4.86
Evaluation
Total Baseline Cost                                          18.42          6.98         25.40
Physical Contingencies                                       0.00          0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                          0.01          0.02          0.03
Total Project Costs                18.43          7.00         25.43
Total Financing Required                18.43          7.00          25.43
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                  US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods: Vehicles, Motorcycles and Equipement                    0.44            2.16          2.60
Works                                                           0.09           0.00          0.09
Consultant Services, Traning & Audit                            2.36           2.08          4.44
Drugs, Tests and Reagent                                       0.49            2.76          3.25
Subprojects                                                    10.00           0.00         10.00
Operating costs                                                4.75            0.00          4.75
Beneficiairies Contributions                                   0.30            0.00          0.30
Total Pro      =          18.43           7.00         25.43
Toa  rject Costs
Total Financing Required       18.43           7.00          25.43
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 25.43 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 90.44% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 54 -



Annex 4 Benefit Analysis Summary
BENIN: Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
An economic analysis of the impact of HIV/AIDS and a cost-benefit analysis of the Multi-sectoral
HIV/AIDS project prepared under the Multi-Country AIDS Program was discussed in Annex 5 of the
Project Appraisal Document of the Multi-Country AIDS Program for the Africa Region. In addition to this
economic analysis it may be mentioned that the proposed project will benefit the population of Benin in
numerous ways:
*     It will directly benefit highly vulnerable groups such as commercial sex workers, men and women
in unifonn, truckers, university students, who will be able to protect themselves as well as their partners
thanks to accessible and affordable means of prevention.
*     It will also highly benefit pregnant women and young people, by enhancing reproductive health
education and raising access to prevention and treatments of sexually transmitted infections.
*     It will benefit Benin society overall by reducing the risk of acquiring HIV of the general
population, beyond these vulnerable groups and avoiding or reducing new infections among adults.
*     It will contribute to decreasing the HIV infection rates of children, and contributing to increase life
expectancy.
*     It will reduce the impoverishing impact of AIDS on households by reducing the loss of income due
to illness and deaths of breadwinners as well as by providing affordable care and transfers.
*     Communities' capacities will be strengthened and empowerment structures supported and
reinforced.
*     The social capital of Benin will be protected by supporting solidarity mechanisms and care to
orphans.
- 55 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BENIN: Multi-Sectoral HIViAIDS Project
Years Ending
Financial Management
1. General
It is proposed that, within the CNLS' s technical secretariat and under the responsibility of its Permanent
Secretary, the Project be coordinated and managed by a small Project Management Unit (PMU), whose
staff, for the purposes of financial management of the MAP Project will include a Project Coordinator,
with responsibility for overall management, an HIV/AIDS Specialist, a Financial Management Specialist
(FMS), a Procurement Specialist, an M&E Specialist, and support staff. The financial management,
procurement, and financing of the activities foreseen within the MAP Project will be the responsibility of
the Financial Management Specialist.
An assessment of the Project Financial Management System will be conducted by the Bank Country Office
Financial Management Specialist as soon as the system and the PMU staff are in place. This activity
should include:
*     Assessment of the adequacy of the financial management system within the PMU: accounting and
reporting systems, internal control system, financial report format, and competence of financial and
accounting staff
*      Explicit opinions on the status of the financial management system in place at the time of
assessment, including any financial management risks. An agreed action plan to strengthen the financial
management system to improve capabilities and a satisfactory system must also be provided prior to the
date of Project effectiveness
2. Flow of Funds
The disbursement arrangements must be supple, combining adequate but simple requirements with efficient
procedures, to ensure the timely flow of funds to finance the different categories of activities foreseen for
the different components of the Project. To this end, as the Borrower does not have the financial means for
advancing funds to finance the Project activities, two Special Accounts A and B will be opened in a
commercial bank, under the responsibility of the Project Coordinator and the Financial Management
Specialist.
Special Account A: Finances for the Support to Civil Society Response Component (1)
The resources of Special Account A will be used exclusively to finance Subprojects initiated by
communities, registered associations (social, occupational, professional, religious), NGOs, and private
sector unions. To this end, the Project could use the financial management services of a Financial
Management Firm (FMF) that has the full capacity to manage Second Generation Special Accounts
(SGSA) such as AGeFIB, to effect the transfer of funds required by this component. As the FMF will not
have the financial means for advancing funds to finance the community level activities, it envisaged that six
MAP Project Second Generation Special Accounts (SGSA) will be opened in each of the 6 departments in
which this FMF will have bureaux. As soon as the decision to finance a Subproject has been taken by the
- 56 -



local-level review and selection committee (an entity completely independent of the FMF), the approved
Subproject proposal will be forwarded to the appropriate departmental office for financing. After having
promptly completed the necessary checks for compliance with financial management procedures, a grant
agreement will be signed by the Financial Management Firm with the relevant CDLS, and the
community-based organization or the civil society organization that will implement the relevant Subproject.
Simultaneously, the first tranche of funds will be released, the release of additional tranches being subject
to the Subproject's compliance with the reporting requirements specified in the grant or financial agreement.
The first payment to each of the 6 MAP Project subaccounts managed by the local FMF will be calculated
on the basis of an estimated 90 days of expenses. The total sum for this first payment will be applied for
by the Cotonou-based FMS and will then be transferred to the respective Project subaccounts managed by
the local FMFs. Replenishment of these subaccounts will be on the basis of disbursements effected within
the framework of the local Subproject financial agreements. As it might already be established practice,
each local bureau would be required to provide justifying documentation in the form of SOEs to ensure
replenishment of their respective MAP Project subaccounts from Special Account A. Detailed discussion of
the modalities for financing the activities foreseen in the Civil Society Response component of the MAP
Project by means of the six local bureaux will appear in the Operational Manual.
Special Account B: Finances for Components 2 and 3.
B 1: Finances for public sector activities -- Action plans of sector Ministries and public sector organizations
The Action Plans of the sectoral Ministries and public organizations will be reviewed and, following
approval of the Plans, provision for 2 different categories of disbursement modalities is required.
(1) Arrangements for the financing of the purchase of medical equipment, medical supplies, laboratory
reagents, condoms, IEC equipment, and consultant services for various studies and for the formulation of
the Sectoral Strategies and Action Plans fall in this first category. In this first instance, for the purposes of
efficiency and economies of scale, the established procedures for financing activities with IDA resources
will be applied, following the related established procurement requirements, resulting in either direct
payment or payment from the Cotonou-based Special Account B, (managed by the MAP PMU), with the
justifying documentation to be held centrally by the PMU. The responsibility for implementation and
monitoring of the specific activity so financed will be held by the respective sectoral Ministry, whereas the
PMU will merely execute the relevant payments, as per the instruction of the given Ministry, within the
context of the approved Ministry or public sector organization Action Plan.
(2) Interventions and initiatives (foreseen within the Ministry or public sector organization Action Plan),
but requiring small-scale funding, such as discrete training or awareness-raising activities, or a work
program of a series of related small-scale initiatives, fall in this second category. To avoid the impact of
the slow rate of mobilization of human and financial resources usually associated with the public sector,
following the approval of the Ministry or public sector organization Action Plan, the given sectoral
Ministry or public sector organization will sign the related financial agreement and open an account in a
commercial bank. The Administrative Director (DA) and the H1V/AIDS focal point of the Ministry or
public sector organization will be the only signatories. Just as in the case of the local-level Subproject
proposals financed under Component 1, a first advance payment will then be deposited to the Ministry's or
public sector organization's account.
B.2: Finances for Project Coordination, Management, and Monitoring and Evaluation (Component 3)
- 57 -



These finances will cover consultant services, audits, and recurrent costs (as specified in the DCA). On
the basis of their joint signatures, and in compliance with established procurement and replenishment
procedures, the Project Coordinator and the FMS are able to withdraw and replenish funds as needed.
Access to and disbursement of funds for financing the activities foreseen in Component 3 will follow the
procedures established by IDA for such coordinating units.
3. Management/Maintenance of the Special Accounts
A computerized accounting system will be put in place within the Project Management Unit. The manual
of accounting procedures is under preparation. The recruitment of key personnel and their training will be
initiated soon.
(a)    The overall consolidated accounts will be held at the PMU. The Project Accounting system
will be required to comply with the norms of private sector accounting generally accepted
for IDA-financed credits. As implementation of the Project proceeds, all of the Project
financial information will incrementally be available at the MAP PMU.
(b)    At the level of the 6 departmental FMA sites, the accounting will be simplified and limited
to the essentials, namely, a summary of the expenditures incurred in the context of the
respective financial agreements, the SOEs, and associated justifying documentation.
(c)    At the level of the local Subprojects, as is already the established practice under the Social
Fund and the PAMR Projects, a summary table of the funds received and expended is
largely adequate. It will also continue to be required that the associated justifying
documentation, such as the invoices, will be kept by the responsible representatives of the
Subprojects to comply with the requirements of random sample post-procurement spot
audits.
(d)    For the small-scale initiatives undertaken within the framework of the approved Ministry
Action Plans, as with (c) above, a summary table specifying the resources used (funds
received and expended) with related justifying documentation will also be required.
- 58 -



Autononous Amortizing Coffer
A                  l
Project Management Unit            Public Officer
Special Account  Special Account    Counterpart
A                R           Funds
rA        ~~~Ministries!
*8* cJ        ,      * 8         Institutions for small
0                                                  ........    Action Plans
015 *     Financial Management                         (Conventions)
Firm (FW)            .
u u             Second Generation
Account
*                    \              C   .  E               Ministries                        8
*                      \               .  z               Institutions; important
8 .            expenditures in
C   \          m    ........    ...   equipment &
*    \                                consultations
NGOs, Associaions        CVLS Accounts
j o,    s           Conununties
- 59 -



4. Audit
An auditing firm acceptable to IDA will be retained to audit the MAP Project. The firm's mandate will cover
all the resources mobilized in the context of the Project. The TOR will be reviewed by the Bank to ensure that
the auditing firm has the required competencies and that the TOR covers all of the Project areas of activity that
require auditing. To complement the financial audit, a technical audit of goods/equipment purchased and any
structures/infrastructure financed by the Project will be undertaken to assess their quality and efficiency.
5. Financial Management Capacity Assessment
During the appraisal mission, the Project team had thorough discussions with the consultant in charge of
preparing the Administrative, Accounting and Financial Management Manual on the main points and scope of
the manual, and made recommendations for its timely preparation. Because the PMU and the financial
management system are not yet in place, the Project team could not make a full assessment of the financial
management of the PMU. However, an assessment of one of the possible Financial Management Finns that
would handle the financial management of the Project at the community level was conducted by the Country
Office Financial Management Specialist, and the firm was found satisfactory. This assessment was confirmed
by the recent mid-term review of this agency carried out in July 2001. Regarding the PMU, it was agreed with
the government that the PMU would be in place as soon as possible to allow the PMIU's staff to become
familiar with the financial management aspects of the Project, preferably prior to the negotiations or at the
latest before the Project becomes effective (namely 90 days after approval of the Credit by IDA. Recruitment
has started, and a draft of the Administrative, Accounting and Financial Management Manual was available
for review and discussion during negotiations. Although substantial at this stage, the financial management
risks will be dealt with adequately before Project implementation. A condition of effectiveness is the
establishment of a satisfactory financial management system, both in terms of personnel and management
procedures. As part of the assessment, an action plan to timely put in place and strengthen the PMU's
capacities to meet the requirements of a satisfactory financial management system was prepared and agreed
during appraisal. The detailed plan is presented in annex 13.
Year 1  | Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4         Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             5.1        5.1         5.1        5.4        0.0         0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs              1.2         1.2        1.2         1.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs            6.3        6.3         6.3        6.5         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing                6.3        6.3         6.3        6.5        0.0         0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    5.7         5.7        5.7         5.9        0.0       0.0         0.0
Government                  0.5         0.5        0.5         0.5        0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       6.3         6.3        6.3         6.5        0.0       0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
- 60 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BENIN: Multi-Sectoral HIVIAIDS Project
Procurement
General
The Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Benin was completed in April 1999. Despite
the findings of some discrepancies, inconsistencies, and delays reported in the procurement process, no
special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit Documents for Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB), because the Republic of Benin's procurement practices allow IDA procedures
to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
Guidelines
Goods and works financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with World Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Evaluation
Report would be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB), advertised locally, would be carried
out in accordance with the Republic of Benin's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA,
provided that the principles of economy, efficiency, transparency, and fair competition in line with the Bank
Guidelines are respected. For NCB procedures, the following conditions have to be met: (a) bids would be
advertised in national newspapers with wide circulation; (b) any bidder is given adequate response time (4
weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (c) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly
specified in the bidding documents and applied without discrimination; (d) no preference margin is granted
to domestic manufacturers; (e) eligible firms, including foreign firms, are not precluded from participation;
(f) award would be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with the criteria specified in the
bidding documents; and (g) bid evaluation reports would clearly state the reasons to reject any
non-responsive bid. The Standard Bidding Documents to be used for NCB would be reviewed by IDA
before Credit effectiveness.
Consultant Services contracts financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September
1997, and January 1999). The standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank, would be used
for appointment of consultants and the Sample Form of Evaluation Report for the Selection of Consultants.
Simplified contracts would be used for short-term assignments, that is, those not exceeding 6 months, and
carried out by firms or individual consultants. The government was briefed during the appraisal mission
about the features of the new Consultant Guidelines, in particular with regard to advertisement, bid
opening, and steps of IDA reviews.
Essentially, communities would receive and manage small grants. Participation by communities in
procurement would be based on Simplified Procurement and Disbursement Procedures for
Community-Based Projects (February 1998).
Advertising
Given the urgency of the Project, a General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be prepared and issued in
the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) web site without the need for hard-copy publication, as
- 61 -



well as in the local newspapers to advertise for major consulting assignments and ICB (above US$200,000
equivalent). The RPA Office has waived the requirement for printed publication of GPN. The detailed
GPN for the subsequent years would be prepared for the Project and published in UNDB. It would be
updated annually for any outstanding procurement. Specific procurement notices for goods and works
would be advertised in the national press with wide distribution and internationally for ICB contracts.
Request for expression of interest would be published in local newspapers. Answers to these expressions
would be used to establish list of NGOs and service providers that would help communities. Sufficient time
would be allowed (minimum of 30 days) before preparing the short list. The related bidding documents, as
applicable, would not be released -- or the short list for consultant services would not be prepared -- until 8
weeks after the GPN had been published. Specific procurement notices (SPNs) for goods and works would
be advertised in national press with wide circulation and internationally for large contracts (ICB).
Sufficient time would be allowed to obtain the bid documents.
Procurement Methods
Civil Works. With the exception of civil works for office rehabilitation (US$0.09 million, of which
US$0.08 million is financed by IDA), all other small works are included in SubProjects. Contracts for
works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$20,000 or more per contract up to an aggregate of
US$40,000, would be awarded through NCB. The procurement of works, such as electricity, painting,
plumbing, and decoration, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$20,000 per contract up to an
aggregate of US$40,000, would be procured on the basis of quotations obtained in writing from at least 3
qualified local contractors.
Goods. Financed under Components 2 and 3, goods are estimated at US$5.84 million, of which US$5.54
miillion would be financed by IDA. Goods include vehicles, computer equipment, furniture, and equipment
including laboratory materials and drugs. To the extent practicable, these contracts shall be grouped into
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more and would be procured through ICB.
Procurement of items available locally that cannot be grouped into bid packages up to at least US$ 100,000
equivalent per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$640,000 would be procured through NCB
procedures acceptable to IDA.
The above aggregate values for NCB and other non-ICB procurement methods for goods and works are
limitative and cannot be exceeded. The PMU would maintain a tracking system to monitor such
procurement.
SubProjects (US$10.0 million financed by IDA) under Component I would comprise a broad spectrum of
activities to be undertaken with the direct participation and financial contribution of the beneficiaries. Due
to their demand-driven nature, it is not possible to deternine the exact mix of goods, small works, and
services to be procured under these activities. Funding for these activities would be in the form of grants.
Therefore, the types of activities to be financed under SubProjects and their procurement details would
depend on the needs identified by community-based organizations and civil society organizations. The
Bank Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments would
be used for procurement under these components of the Project.
The PMU would be responsible for ensuring compliance with these guidelines. Ex-post reviews of random
SubProjects would be conducted periodically by IDA and independent consultants appointed by the
Govemment. Simplified procurement and disbursement procedures for community-based programs,
including the list of items qualifying under this component, would be developed and included in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM). The PIM would also include procedures for IDA prior review thresholds
-62 -



for community initiatives.
Consultant Services
Consulting services would be primarily in the areas of HIV/AIDS training, information, education,
communication (IEC), applied research, financial management, monitoring and evaluation, information
dissemination, and auditing and accounting. They also would be used to strengthen the institutional and
technical capacities of communities under Component 1 of the Project (facilitation of community
participation processes such as community development, participative diagnostic, and subProject
preparation). These contracts, which are for applied research, epidemiological study, monitoring and
evaluation, and financial management services are estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more
per contraLt, will be procured through Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). The contracts for
services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 per contract will be procured under
contracts based on Consultants' Qualifications in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7
of the Consultant Guidelines. Least Cost Selection (LCS), in accordance with paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the
Consultant Guidelines, would be used for financial and technical audit contracts costing less than
US$100,000; the firm with the lowest price would be selected, provided its technical proposal received the
minimum marks.
The selection of Individual Consultant Services such as (1) high- and mid-level staff of the PMU and the
regional offices of the FMF, (2) specialized activities (implementation, community development,
organization, participation, counseling), (3) workshop and seminar facilitation, small studies and other
assignments would be on the basis of comparison of curriculum vitae in accordance with paragraphs 5.1
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Single-Source Selection (SSS) would be used exceptionally for
(a) information, education, and communication training, and (b) consulting assignments costing less than
US$10,000 per contract in accordance with paragraphs 3.8 - 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants, short lists
for contracts estimated under US$20,000 or the equivalent may be comprised entirely of national
consultants (in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided
that a sufficient number of qualified individuals or firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs.
The Bank's Standard Request for Proposal (RFP) would be used to request proposals and to select and
appoint consultants. Simplified contracts would be used for short-term assignments or simple missions of
standard nature, that is, not exceeding six months, carried out by individual consultants or firms.
Training, workshops, conference attendance, and study tours would be carried out on the basis of approved
annual work programs that would identify the general framework of training or similar activities for the
year, including the nature of training/study tours/workshops, number of participants, and cost estimates.
IDA Reviews
Works. Prior IDA review would apply to each work contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$20,000 or more and to the first 2 contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$20,000
awarded on basis of quotation.
Goods. IDA-financed contracts for goods costing the equivalent of US$100,000 or more to be procured
through ICB would be subject to IDA' s prior review procedures in accordance with Appendix 1 of the
Guidelines. Contracts for goods costing less than the equivalent of US$100,000 would be procured through
NCB. The first 3 of such contracts would be subject to prior review.
- 63 -



Consultants. IDA prior review would apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and
individuals estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more and the equivalent of US$25,000 or
more, respectively. The prior review would also apply to all Terms of Reference, regardless the estimated
cost. In addition, the first 2 contracts for strengthening of the institutional and technical capacities of
communities under Component 1 of the Project would be submitted to IDA for prior review. For consultant
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, opening the financial envelopes would not
take place prior to receiving the Bank's non-objection to the technical evaluation. For contracts estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 and the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, the Borrower would notify IDA of the
results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial proposals. Documents related to
procurement below the prior review thresholds would be maintained by PMU for ex-post review by
auditors and IDA supervision missions.
All thresholds stated in this section shall be reviewed annually by the Borrower and IDA. Modifications
may be agreed, based on performances and actual values of procurement implemented. Amendments to the
Credit Development Agreement may be prepared as necessary.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
-64 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Expenditure Category                             Method 1                               Total Costs
ICB       Procurement        Other 2           N.B.F.
NCB
1. Works                  0.00          0.05             0.04             0.00              0.09
(0.00)        (0.04)           (0.04)           (0.00)           (0.08)
2. Vehicles,              0.9           1.69             0.00              0.00             2.59
Motorcycles, and
Equipment
(0.87)        (1.49)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (2.36)
3. Drugs, Tests, and      3.25          0.00             0.00              0.00             3.25
Reagent
(3.18)        (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)           (3.18)
4. Consultant Services    0.00          0.00             4.45             0.00              4.45
and Training
________________ i(0.00)               (0.00)           (4.45)           (0.00)           (4.45)
5.Subprojects             0.00          0.00             10.00             0.00            10.00
(0.00)        (0.00)          (10.00)           (0.00)           (10.00)
6. Operating Costs        0.00          0.00             3.08              1.67             4.75
(0.00)        (0.00)           (2.93)           (0.00)           (2.93)
7. Beneficiaries'         0.00          0.00              0.3              0.00             0.3
Contribution
(0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
Total            4.15           1.74            17.87             1.67            25.43
(4.05)        (1.53)          (17.42)           (0.00)           (23.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2] Includes consulting services, services of contracted staff of the Project management office, training,
technical assistance services, grants to communities, contribution of beneficiaries, and incremental
operating costs.
- 65 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection  Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category    QCBS    QBS         SFB      LCS       CQ       Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms                  1.50     0.00      0.00     0.25      0.50      0.00     0.00       2.25
(1.50)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.25)    (0.50)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (2.25)
B. Individuals            0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      2.20     0.00       2.20
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (2.20)   (0.00)    (2.20)
Total   1.50     0.00      0.00     0.25       0.50     2.20      0.00      4.45
(1.50)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.25)    (0.50)   (2.20)   (0.00)    (4.45)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB   Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Contract Value                                      Contracts Subject to
Expenditure                 Threshold              Procurement                   Prior Review
Category               (US$ thousands)              Method                     (US$ millions)
l. Works                      >or = US$20,000              NCB            Equal to or more than US$20,000
equivalent
<US$20,000          Price quotation from 3   The first 2 contracts
contractors
2. Goods                 >or = US$100,000 equivalent        ICB                           All
<US$100,000
NCB                     First three contracts
3. Services
A. Consultant Firms                                       QCBS          Equal to or more than US$50,000 equivalent;
first two contracts and all TOR regardless of
the cost
B. Auditors               <US$ 100,0(00 equivalent         LCS          Equal to or more than USS50,000 equivalent
and all TORs regardless of cost
Equal to or more than US$25,000 equivalent
and all TOR regardless their costs
C. Individuals                 <US$50,000                  CQ                            All
<US$10,00t) and all IEC         SSS
training
4. Subproject                       NA                      NA                            NA
5. Operating Costs                 NA                      NA                             NA
Total estimated value of contracts subject to prior review: US$7.84 million
- 66 -



Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangement
The PMU would be responsible for Project financial management including the preparation and production
of the annual financial statements, in accordance with internationally accepted accounting principles, as
well as making arrangements for their certification by a competent and experienced audit firm under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA. At the departnental level, the FMF would handle accounting, financial
reporting, and disbursement functions. The Project financial statements would be consolidated by the PMU
at the end of each fiscal year. The PMU would also monitor all Project disbursements and ensure that they
are in conformity with IDA requirements.
The financial management system of the FMF will be reviewed and should be found acceptable prior to
signing a contract with the firm. The PMU would handle accounting, financial reporting, procurement, and
disbursement functions. The Project financial statements would also be consolidated by the PMU at the
end of each fiscal year. The PMU would also monitor all Project's disbursements and ensure that they are
in conformity with IDA requirements. The financial procedures manual would describe the Project
organizational structure; accounting system; chart of accounts; internal controls; transaction cycles;
format, content, and periodicity of the various financial statements to be produced; and budgetary
procedures and process (preparation, monitoring, variance analysis).
Reporting and Auditing
Quarterly progress reports from the community level would first be consolidated at the district and regional
level, then submitted to the PMU level for further consolidation and preparation of the Project activity
report. A simple, standard, community-level reporting format would be used that would include, at a
minimum, the eligible activities undertaken, and the actual costs compared to standard estimates for such
eligible activities. Standard estimated costs for eligible activities are necessary for Project management and
would be determined prior to effectiveness. Any expenditure that cannot be justified or is outside the scope
of the agreed activities under the Subproject would be clearly identified and reimbursed to PMU. Such
amounts would need to be reimbursed by the communities.
Annual financial consolidated statements for the Project would be prepared by PMU in accordance with
generally accepted accounting standards as required by IDA. The Project annual financial statements and
Special Accounts and SGSA would be audited annually by extemal auditors acceptable to IDA. The
audited Project financial statements would be submitted to IDA no later than 6 months after the end of each
fiscal year. Appointment of external auditors acceptable to IDA would be done prior to Project
effectiveness.
- 67 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount in US$Million      Financing Percentage
1. Works                                       0.08                       85%
2. Goods
(a) Vehicles, Motorcycles, and Equipment        2.00          100% of foreign expenditures
85% of local expenditures
(b) Drugs, Tests, and Reagent                    3.00          100% of foreign expenditures
85% of local expenditures
3. Consultant Services, Training, & Audit        3.00                    85%
4. Grants for Subprojects
(a) Community-Based Organization                8.00           100% of amounts disbursed
(b) Civil Society Organizations                 2.00           100% of amounts disbursed
5. Operating Costs                              2.00                    80%
6. Unallocated                                  2.92
Total Project Costs                  23.00
Total                          23.00
Disbursement Method
Disbursements would be made in accordance with procedures outlined in the Bank's "Disbursement
Handbook," as specifically tailored above.
Disbursement Percentages
The Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of 4 years. The anticipated completion date is March
15, 2006 and the closing date is September 15, 2006. Disbursement will follow normal Bank procedures
and will be made against eligible expenditures. The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
accordance with the Bank's policy to exclude local taxes/duties.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements for all expenditures would be made against full documentation, except for items of
expenditures under (a) contracts for consulting firns in an amount inferior to US$50,000 equivalent, (b)
contracts for individual consultants in an amount inferior to US$25,000, (c) contracts for works in an
amount inferior to US$20,000, and (d) contracts for goods in an amount inferior to US$100,000; (e)
community Subprojects, Work Programs Agreement, training, and operating costs, which would be claimed
on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documentation for SOEs would be
retained at a suitable location at the level of the community, department, line Ministry, or the PMU.
Special account:
The PMU would open 2 special accounts in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to facilitate Project
implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal applications.
- 68 -



Special Account A: would be used exclusively for transferring funds to communities on the basis of
eligible pre-approved Subprojects through departmental accounts. An initial advance of FCFA 800
million covering about 6 months of estimated eligible Subprojects would be authorized under Special
Account A considering the dispersion of communities, amounting to several thousands, and the uncertainty
relative to the timing and availability of microproject information. Replenishments of Special Account A
would be made on a monthly basis, and would be based on basic references to the approved Subproject, for
the first payment. A technical certificate of progress for the Subproject would be submitted to permit the
second payment under the Subproject. Review of the details of expenditures at the community level under
the respective Subproject would be conducted on a sample basis by internal auditors and through local
operational audits and annual external audits.
Special Account B: would be used to finance all other Project expenditures including Work Program
Agreements signed with line Ministries. The initial advance to Special Account B would be FCFA 500
million and would cover about 4 months of budgeted eligible expenditures.
Upon Credit effectiveness, IDA would deposit the amount of FCFA 400 million into Special Account A
and FCFA 400 million into Special Account B. The remaining balance would be made available when the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association should equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5 million. The
Special Account would be used for all payments inferior to 20 percent of the authorized allocation, and
replenishment applications would be submitted monthly. Additional deposits by IDA into the Special
Accounts would be made against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents.
Counterpart Fund
The Borrower would open at the Treasury, and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, a Project
Account to receive the counterpart funds needed to cover the Borrower's share of the Project costs under
the different categories where needed. Before Project effectiveness, the Govenmment would deposit in the
Project Account an initial contribution of CFAF 53,000,000, and would replenish the Project Account in a
timely manner, to the amount of the initial deposit, or whenever the balance of the Project Account shall be
less than CFAF 25,000,000. The Government would ensure that amounts deposited into the Project
Account would be used exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures for goods, services, and works
under the different components of the Project.
- 69 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BENIN: Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Project Schedule                                    Planned   .                   Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        9                             10
First Bank mission (identification)               12/01/2000                    12/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure                       07/30/2001                    07/25/2001
Negotiations                                      09/24/2001                    10/29/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     03/15/2002
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Nicolas Ahouissoussi                Senior Agricultural Economist
Jean J. Delion                      Senior Rural Development Specialist
Francois Decaillet                  Senior Public Health Specialist
Midou Ibrahima                     Public Health Specialist
Soulemane Fofana                   Operations Analyst
Hugues Agossou                     Financial Management Specialist
Yvette Abaglo                      Procurement Officer
Ramanatou Zime                     Disbursement Assistant
Michel Aklamavo                    Agricultural Services Specialist
Sonia Nieri                        Team Assistant
Wilda Sajous                       Language Program Assistant
Elizabeth Morris-Hughes             Senior Gender Specialist
Advisory Committee members: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh (AFTR2); Rosemary Bellew (AFTH3); Willem Zijp
(AFTQK); Jonathan C. Brown (AFTQK, ACTAfrica); Bachir Souhlal (ACTAfrica); Agnes Albert-Loth
(LOAGI); Asha Ayoung (AFTQK); Bertrand de Chazal (AFTKQ); Jean-Charles de Daruvar (LEGAF).
- 70 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BENIN: Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
I.    Introduction
II.    Cadre Institutionnel
m.    Mise en Oeuvre des Activites du Projet
IV.   Gestion Financiere
V.    Procedures de Passation des Marches et Emploi des Consultants
VI.   Annexes
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*  Identification mission; 11 /30/ 01 - 12 /10 /01 Aide Memoire and BTO
*   Appraisal mission; 07 /30 /01 - 08 /13/ 01: Aide Memoire and BTO
Environmental and Social Data sheet submitted; 08/ 19 /01
* Benin Country procurement Assessment Report: April 1999
C. Other
1. Documents pour la Mission de pre-evaluation
1.1   Statistique Dnmonraphie
1.    INSAE: Deuxieme recensement General de la Population et de I 'habitat. Cotonou, f6vrier 1992.
2.    INSAE, CERRHUD, PNLS:  Etude multicentrique sur les facteurs qui determinent les
diffirences de niveaux de l 'infection a VIH en Afrique: resultats du Benin. Cotonou, decembre
1999.
3.    Republic of Benin: Direction du Plan et de la Prospective, Diagnostic des problemes de
population au Benin. Cotonou, juillet 1994.
4.    CNRPH: Situation demographique, politique programme depopulation au Benin. Caire 1994.
5.    INSAE:  Tableau de bord social. Profil social et indicateurs de developpement humain.
Cotonou, septembre 1999.
1.2   Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA/IST
6.    FHI, USAID: Analyse de la capacite institutionnelle du PNLS. Cotonou, juin-juillet 2000
(rapport).
- 71 -



7.    PNLS, ONUSIDA: Planif cation Strategique de la riposte nationale contre le VIHISIDA. Phase
1: Analyse de la situation. Cotonou, avril 2000.
8.    PNLS, ONUSIDA: Planification Strategique de la riposte nationale contre le VIHISIDA. Phase
2: Analyse de la reponse. Cotonou, juin-juillet 2000.
9.    MSP/PNLS/ONUSIDA 2000: Cadre Strategique National de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA au
Benin. Cotonou, decembre, 2000.
1.3    Recherches. Seminaires
10.   Gervais N. ATAHOUET: Les Routiers du Benin et le SIDA, Enquete CAP. Cotonou, avril -
septembre 1993.
11.   FTI, USAID: Recensement des besoins vis a vis I'epidemie du VIHISIDA au Benin. Cotonou,
juillet 1999.
12.   CONDE Nicodeme: Inventaire des interventions de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA en milieu scolaire.
Mai 2000.
13.   BM, PNLS, AFRICARE, OMS: Le secteur rural face au d6fi du SIDA, Seminaire atelier
rapport. Bohicon 27 - 28 juillet 2000.
1.4    Experiences des institutions
14.   ALLALE Norbert: Experiences de AFRICARE dans la lutte contre le SIDA en milieu rural.
AFRICARE, PSEO.
15.   Projet Benino - Allemand des Soins de Sante (PB-ASSP): Description du Projet.
1.5    ONUSIDAIUNAIDS
16.   OMS: Le point sur lV'pidemie de SIDA. Geneve, decembre 1999.
17.   ONUSIDA: La riposte des menages et des communautes d l'epidemie de VIHISIDA dans les
zones rurales de l 'Afrique subsaharienne. Geneve, 2000.
18.   OMS: Rapport sur la Sante dans le monde 2000, Pour un systeme de sante plus performant.
Geneve, 2000.
19.   ONUSIDA: Rapport sur l 'epidemie mondiale de VIHISIDA. Geneve, juin 2000.
20.   ONUSIDA,UIP: Guide pratique d l'intention du legislateur sur le VIH/SIDA, la legislation et
les droit de l 'homme. Geneve, Suisse, 1999.
21.   WHO / UNAIDS, AIDS epidemic update: December 2000.
22.   ONUSIDA, Partenariat ONUSIDA: agir ensemble contre le SIDA. Geneve, avril 2000.
- 72 -



II.    R6f6rences documentaires de I'6quipe devaluation.
2.1    R8Ie des Tradi-theraDeutes dans la lutte contre le HIV/AIDS au Binin
Pr6parh par John Lambert & Valentin Kindomihou
23.   Republique du Benin: Annuaire des Statistiques Sanitaires. MSP,1999.
24.   Republique du Benin: Statut et Rtglement Interieur de I 'Association Nationale des Praticiens de
la Medecine Traditionnelle du Benin. Decret No. 86-69. Mars 3, 1986.
25.   Republique du Benin: Fixant les principes de deontoloqie et les Conditions de l'exercice de la
Medecine Traditionnelle. Decret No. 2001-036, 15 Fevrier, 2001.
26.   Compte Rendu: Forum Africain sur la R6le de la Medecine Traditionnelle dans les Systemes de
sante. Harare, Zimbabwe, 2000.
27.   Nationale Association of Traditional Healers: Listes des Praticiens Traditionnelles: Departement
de l'Oueme, Zou, Benin, Atlantique, Mono. Cotonou, 1999.
28.   Circonscription Urbaine de Parakou: Liste des Praticiens Traditionnels. Benin 1999.
29.   Adjotin, P.: Medecines traditionnelles et medecine moderne au Benin. Institue universitaire,
d'etudes du developpement (IUED). Universite de Geneve, 1996.
30.   OMS: Le Sida n'est pas une fatalite. Bulletin Trimestriel de la Representation de l'OMS au
Benin No. 13 Juil.-Aout/Sept. Oct. 2000. Cotonou, 2000.
31.   MSP: Programme de Promotion de la Pharmacopee et de la Medecine Traditionnelles. PPMT,
2000.
32.   MSP:  La Symptomatologie au Service de la Medecine Traditionnelle. INFOSEC-Cotonou.
Seminaire National. Cotonou, 12-16 Novembre 1990.
33.   MSP. Politique et Strategies d'Integration de la Medecine Traditionnelle dans le Systeme
National de Sante 2001-2005. Programme de Promotion de la Pharmacopee et de la Medecine
Traditionnelles. Cotonou, 2001.
34..   MSP: Modules de Formation des Praticiens de la Medecine Traditionnelle sur la Prevention, le
Diagnostic et le traitement du Paludisme Simple et du Paludisme Grave. Programme de
Promotion de la Pharmacopee et de la M6decine Traditionnelles. Cotonou, 2001.
35.   CENPREBAF: Utilisation durable des plantes medicinales et aromatique au Benin. CBDD,
Cotonou, 1999.
- 73 -



2.3    Les orphelins du SIDA au Benin: Analyse de situation et propositions d'actions
Pr6par6 par Marie-France Adrien & Pierre Jekinnou
36.   Adjovi, C.: Surveillance de l 'infection par le VIHISIDA/IST au Benin, PNLS. Cotonou, 2000.
37.   Agossou, T., I. Zohoun et al: Besoins en aide des personnes serologie VIH positive et leur
famille. Cotonou, Janvier 1996.
38.   ANRS, ORSTOM, Le SIDA en Afrique: Recherches en sciences de l'homme et de la societe.
Paris, 1997.
39.   Baier-d'Orazio, M., Jekinnou, P.: Potentialites et chances de la femme dans I'artisanat et la
formation professionnelle. Service allemand de developpement, Fondation Hans Seidel.
Abomey, 1996.
40.   Comlan, E.: Le travail des enfants en Republique Populaire du Benin: Le cas des filles
Vidomegon de Cotonou. Memoire de maitrise de sociologie, Universite Nationale du Benin.
Cotonou, 1987.
41.   DED - GTZ: Atelier definalisation des strategies de lutte contre le SIDA. Savalou, Nov. 1999.
42.   Republique du B3nin: Direction du Plan et de la Prospective, Diagnostic des problmes de
population au Benin, Ministere du Plan et de la Reconstruction Economique. Cotonou, Juillet
1994.
43.    (INMES), (ENASS): Djossou, F., Edon Olaye, M., Sylla, A., La situation des enfants en
situation difficile . cas des enfants places accueillis par Terre des Hommes a Cotonou. Memoire
defin de formation pour l'obtention du dipl6me d'assistant de service social. Cotonou, 2000.
44.   Diallo, M.: Lutte contre le VIHISIDA et les MST au Benin : contours actuels et perspectives.
BEN/97/001 Point Focal ONUSIDA.
45.   Conde N.:  Inventaire des interventions de lutte contre le VIHISIDA en milieu scolaire,
ONUSIDA. Mai 2000.
46.   Foster, Geoff and Williamson:  A review of current literature on the impact of HIVMVIH on
children in Sub-Saharan Africa AIDS 2000, 14. (Supplement 3).
47.   Gbaguidi, E., Davo N. et Ahorka M.: Enquete sur les Connaissances, Attitudes, Croyances et
Pratiques sur le SIDA dans le departement de l'Atacora, PBA /SSP - DED - GTZ. Sept 1991.
48.   IMPACT, FHI: Recensement des besoins vis-ai-vis de l'epidemie du VIHISIDA au Benin.
Cotonou, juillet 1999.
49.   Ong  ID-Jeunes:   Initiative  Developpement, Problematique  VIH/SIDA  au  Benin  et
objectifs/Strategies du programme ID-Jeunes. Cotonou, avril 2000.
- 74 -



50.   Jekinnou, P.: Etude exploratoire sur la perception de 1'enfant et de ses besoins dans le Mono et
le Couffo, Plan International. Cotonou, d6cembre 2000.
51.   MFPSS et Banque Mondiale: Repertoire des structures de protection de I'enfant au Benin.
Cotonou, Mai 2001.
52.   MDR, MSP, Africare: Seminaire atelier sur "Le secteur rural beninois face au defi du SIDA"
Banque Mondiale, OMS. Bohicon, Juillet 2000.
53.   Onambele, G.A.  Participation de la famille d la prise en charge des personnes atteintes du
SIDA d Cotonou: etudes de cas. Memoire de maUtrise de sociologie - anthropologie, Universite
Nationale du Benin. Cotonou, 1999.
54.   ONUSIDA. Guide pratique a l'intention du legislateur sur le VIHISIDA, la legislation et les
droits de l'homme. Geneve, Suisse, 1999.
55.   PNLS Benin: Prise en charge psychosociale des personnes atteintes du VIH/SIDA et leurs
proches, MEPS. Cotonou, Decembre 1994.
56.   PNLS Benin, Banque Mondiale: Atelier de consensus du Projet Multisectoriel de Lutte contre le
SIDA/IST(MAP-BENIN), Rapport general de l'atelier national sur le projet multisectoriel de
lutte. Abomey, Juin 2001
57.   PNLS Benin, Banque Mondiale: Mise en place d'une unite deprise en charge. Cotonou, 2001.
58.   Service Allemand de Developpement, Reforme de l'Administration Territoriale en Republique du
Benin: Projet tripartite benino-franco-allemand d'appui a la decentralisation/deconcentration,
Benin. Cotonou, 2001.
59.   Sossou, J. S.: Prise en charge psychosociale du malade du SIDA et du seropositif, Memoire de
fin deformation pour le dipl6me d 'Assistant Social, FSS. Cotonou 1996.
60.   USAID, FHI, IMPACT: Analyse de la capacite institutionnelle du PNLS. Cotonou, Juillet 2000.
61.   World Bank: Coping with the impact of Aids. Confronting Aids: Public Priorities in a Global
Epidemic (Mead Over and AMartha Ainsworth). Oxford University Press, 1997.
62.   World Bank: Social Protection of Africa's Orphans and Vulnerable Children: Issues and Good
Practice Program Options, KSubbarao, A. Mattimore, K Plangemann
2.2.   Manuel de procedure du svsteme de suivi et evaluation du Projet Multisectoriel de Lutte
contre le SIDA
Prepare par Bernadette Ryan & Leonard Fourn
63.   Population Services International (PSI) & CEFORP, Enquete sur les Connaissances, Attitudes et
Pratiques (CAP) Relatives au SIDA, a la Diarrhee au Paludisme et i la Planification Familiale,
Cotonou, Avril 2000.
- 75 -



64.   USAID, HIV Prevention in Benin, Request for Applications (RFA) Number 680-01-017,
June2001.
65.   Demographic and Health Survey, Macro International, Inc., Knowledge, Attitudes, and Behavior
Regarding AIDS in Benin, Benin Further Analysis, July 1997.
66.   UNAIDS, PNLS/MST, La Lutte contre le SIDA et les MST au Bout des Doigts: Annuaire
VIHISIDA au Benin 1999-2000, Cotonou, Novembre 1999.
67.   UNAIDS, Lutte contre le VIIHISIDA et les MST au Benin: Contours Actuels et Perspectives,
Cotonou, avril 1999.
68.   Projet SIDA 2, Profil de la Prostitution au Benin, Cotonou,1999.
69.    Cooperation Franqaise: Projet d'Appui a la Lutte contre le SIDA en Republique du Benin:
Rapport d'Evaluation, Cotonou, Fevrier 2000.
70.   USAID, Recensement des Besoins vis-a-vis I'Epidemie du VIH/SIDA au Benin, IMPACT/Family
Health International situational analysis report, July 1999.
71.   Projet SIDA 2, Socio-demographic profile and trends of condom use among female prostitutes
attending an STD clinic, Cotonou, 2000.
72.    MSP/PNLS, Surveillance Epid6miologique de l'Infection par le VIHISIDA en Republique du
Benin: Rapport Ann6e 1999, Cotonou, avril 2000.
III.   Documents elabores par l'equipe de l'evaluation
73.   Ryan, (Bernadette), Fourn, (Leonard), Manuel de procedures du systeme de suivi et evaluation
du Projet Multisectoriel de Lutte contre le SIDA.
74.   Adrien, (Marie-France), Jekinnou, (Pierre), Les orphelins du SIDA au Benin: Analyses de
situation et propositions d'actions.
75.   Assogba, (Charles), Tairou (Wakili), Renforcement des reponses de la societe civile. Manuel
d'execution, Tome 2.
76.   Lambert, (Dr. John D. H.), Kindomihou, (Valentin), Role of Traditional Health Care in the fight
against HIV/AIDS in Benin. A contribution to the development of the Benin Multi-Sectoral
HIV/AIDS Project Appraisal Document, AFTR2 (July 5 - 20, 2001).
77.   Coquillat, (Desire), Projet Multisectoriel de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA. Manuel d'Execution,
Cotonou, Aofit 2001
78.   Dagba, (Rhetice), Projet Multisectoriel de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA. Mecanisme de transfert de
Fonds a travers l'AGeFIB pour le financement des r6ponses de la societe civile.
- 76 -



79.   Okalla, (Jean Pierre), Avande (Jean Claude), Projet Multisectoriel de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA.
Manuel de Procedures de gestion comptable et financiere.
IV. PAD consult6s par 1'6quipe d'evaluation
80.   Africa Regional Office (AFTH3/AFCO3), Burkina Faso, HIV/AIDS DISASTER RESPONSE
PROJECT; Technical Annex.
81.   Africa Regional Office, (AFTR2), Cameroon Multi-sectoral HlV/AIDS Project. Project Appraisal
Document.
82.   Africa Regional Office, (AFTH2), The Gambia HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project. Project
Appraisal Document.
83.   Africa Regional Office, (AFC04), Zimbabwe AIDS Project; Project Appraisal Document
84.   AFTQK/ACTAfrica, The US$500 Million Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for Africa.
*Including electronic files
- 77 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BENIN: Multi-Sectoral HIVIAIDS Project
07-Nov-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
P037580       2000 NAT PARKS CONS.& MGT                                0.00       0.00                 6.00       0.00       5.53      -0.87      0.00
P039882       2000 PRIVATE SECTOR                                      0.00      30.40                 0.00       0.00      19.04      -8.72      0.00
P067329       2000 Distance Learrmng Project - LtL                     0.00       1.83                 0.00       0.00       0.75      14.01      0.76
P070204       2000 Labor Force Development Project                     0.00       5.00                 0.00       0.00       4.72       1.01      0.00
P035648        1999 1STDECEN.CITYMGMT.                                 0.00      25.50                 0.00       0.00      17.84      12.83      0.00
P057345        1998 BORGOU PILOT RSP                                   0.00       4.00                 0.00       0.00       0.93       0.92      0.00
P035645        1998 SOCIAL FUND                                        0.00      16.70                 0.00       0.00       6.12      -0.98      -3.93
P000117       1997 TRANSPORT SECTOR                                    0.00      40.00                 0.00       0.00       9.39      12.78      0.00
P000118        1995 POPULATION AND HEALT                               0.00      27.80                 0.00       0.00       6.22      10.60     10.60
P000112       1995 ENV. MANAGEMENT PROJ                                0.00       8.00                 0.00       0.00       2.14       2.73      2.59
P000103       1994 EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                       0.00      18.10                 0.00       0.00       4.84       5.34      5.27
Total:       0.00      177.33                6.00        0.00      77.53      49.67      15.30
BENIN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                   Disbursed
IFC                                         IFC
FY Approval               Company                                   Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic         Loan    Equity        Quasi    Partic
1994                      Equipbail-Benin                           0.00       0.10        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.10        0.00       0.00
2000                      FINADEV                                   0.00        0.33       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
1991/93/95                AEF BOAB                                  0.00       0.02        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.02        0.00       0.00
1995                      AEF Union Benin                           0.00       0.08        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.08        0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                  0.00       0.53        0.00        0.00       0.00       0.20        0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                                       Loan        Equity        Quasi        Partic
1999                     SOBAC                                         0.00          0.00         0.08          0.00
2000                     FINADEV                                        1.41         0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                     1.41         0.00          0.08         0.00
- 78 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BENIN: Multi-Sectoral HIVIAIDS Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan      Low-
Benin     Africa   Income       Development diamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                         6.3       659      2,459                  Life expectancy
GNI Per capita (Atlas method, US$S                      380       480        420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        2.4       313      1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                          2.8        2.6       1.9      GNI                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                         2.9        2.6       2.4      per                             pross
per              I               Iprimary
Most recent eatimate (ltest year available, 1994-00)                                  capita                       enrollment
PovertV (% of population below national povertV line)    33
Urban population (% of total population)                 42        34         32
Life expectancv at birth (years)                         53        47         59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 87        92         77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               29                                Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)     63         55        76
Illiteracv (% of population age 15+)                     60        38         38
Gross Primarv enrollment (% of school-age population)    78         78        96      -      Benin       Low-income group
Male                                                   98        85        102
Female                                                 57        71         86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
Economnic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             1.4      1.8        2.4       2.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 15.2     14.2       17.6      19.0                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             15.8     14.3       16.7      15.6
Gross domestic savinqslGDP                    -6.3      2.2        6.4       6.3
Gross national savings/GDP                     1.1      5.8       11.7      11.6
Current account balance/GDP                  -14.0     -5.1       -5.9      -7.6      Domestic                     Investment
Interest paymentslGDP                          0.2      0.8        0.8       0.6      savmns
Total debt/GDP                                30.2     70.0       71.2      70.7      sin
Total debt servicelexPorts                     4.9      8.0       14.6      17.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                         40. 1
Present value of debt/exports                                    198.1
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04
faverage annual growth)
GDP                                  2.5       4.7      5.0        5.0       6.0       -     Benin -    Low-income group
GDP Per capita                      -0.7       1.8      2.1        2.2       3.2 
ExportS of goods and services       -4.3       4.3     24.7       -2.4      24.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Aariculture                                   35.4     36.1       37.9      37.1
Industry                                      12.3     13.2       13.8      13.8      so
Manufacturinq                                8.0       7.8        8.3       8.3        j       .
Services                                      52.3     50.7       48.3      49.1       0c.G
Private consumption                           97.7     86.8       83.5      82.3      -so
General qovemment consumption                  8.6     11.0       10.1      11.3                    GDI         D  GOP
Imports of qoods and services                 37.3     26.3       28.0      28.2
(averaze annual qrowth)                    1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000      Growth of exports and imports (%)
Aqriculture                                    5.1       5.3       4. 7       5.0    50 -
Industrv                                       3.4      3.9        3.2       7.4    25
Manufacturing                                5.1       5.6        6.5       7.0
Services                                       0.7       4.5       5.8       4.3
95      9 959    D
Private conSUmDtion                            1.9       4.0       0.8        3.2       7
General government consumption                 0.5      4.2       11.6      19.8   .50 l
Gross domestic investment                     -5.3      5.3       11.1        9.7            -     Exports     e  Imports
Imports of goods and services                 -6.2       2.5       8.3        3.0
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-oroup averaqe. If data are missinq, the diamond will
-79 -



Benin
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990       1999     2000      Inflation (%o)
Domestic prkes
(% change)                                                                       s-
Consumer prices                                       1 1       0.3       3.5    4G
Implicit GDP deflator                       10.2      1.6       2.1       5.1
20
Govemnment finance                                                               10-
(% of GDP, includes current orants)
Current revenue                                       9.2       16.1     15.9            95   96   97   99   99    0
Current budget balance                               -5.4        5.1      3.6             -     GDPdetator  -O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficil                             -10,8       -1.2     -3.5
TRADE
(USS millions)                              1980    1990       1999     2000      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                   118       236      246    500
Ginned Cotton                                        80       194       208
Crude Oil                                            26
Manufactures                                                                               _ 
Total imports (cif)                                  2298       461      453    250
Food                                                 78       141       139
Fuel and energy                                      31        59        80
Capital goods                                       157       258       254      o
Export price index (1995=100)                                                          97
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..         .         ..             * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1980    1990       1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                306      402       397       360      0
Imports of qoods and services                608      563       665      651        5 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Resource balance                            -302    -161       -267      -290         -                    * 
Net income                                    -3      -39       -18       -17
Net current transfers                        107      105       145       136
Current account balance                     -197      -95      -141      -172    -10
Financing items (net)                        178      205       148       164
Changes in net reserves                       19    -110         -7         7    -15
Memo:
Reserves induding gzold (LlS$ millions)       ..        .         .         .
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)           211.3   272.3       615.7    712.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         424    1,292      1,686    1,599
IBRD                                         0        0         0         0                     G 72
IDA                                         52      326       574       578                 F:3
Total debt service                            20       38        70        77
BRD                                         0a        0         (a        0                                    :578
IDA                                          0        3        10        10        E:493
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             41      110        98         -
Official creditors                          56      102        35        17
Private creditors                            0        0         0         0
Foreign direct investment                    4        1        31        _.                                C: 84
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0                           D: 369
World Bank program
Commitments                                 10        3        56         7     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               12       56        49        37     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Pivate
Principal repayments                         0        1         6         6     C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                   12       55        43        30
Interest payments                            0        2         4         4
Net transfers                               12       53        39        26
Note: This table was produced from the Deveoprnent Economics central database.                                      1111101
- 80 -



Additional
Annex 11
Benin Multi-sectoral HIVIAIDS Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and Evaluation
The principal objectives of the Benin HIV/AIDS MAP are to (i) accelerate, intensify, diversify and
empower the response of civil society and the public sector to the HlV/AIDS epidemic through a
multi-sector and community participatory approach; and (ii) to build capacity in both civil society and the
public sector to achieve and sustain this scaled-up response. The success of the Credit financed program
therefore should be measured by output, process and outcome indicators which mark the degree of change
achieved across the country, in these processes and activities of scaling up and capacity building. The
program monitoring and evaluation will therefore necessarily focus on measuring observable changes
behavioral changes in HIV/AIDS preventive and care practices, at the level of communities and
public/private sector organizations, which are attributable to the program.
To be distinguished from program monitoring, "surveillance" may be considered as the monitoring and
evaluation of the evolution of the HIV/AIDS epidemic itself. As part of its support for capacity building,
the Benin HIV/AIDS MAP also provides for related training and the execution of such epidemiological and
behavioral surveillance studies as are required to complement the activities already initiated by the
government of Benin and other donors. Benin launched its program for the fight against AIDS in 1987
with the elaboration of its first national strategy for the fight against AIDS/HIV/STD and with the creation
of the Ministry of Health's National AIDS Control Program (Programme National de Lutte contre le
SIDA, or PNLS). Since its inception, the PNLS unit has had the responsibility both of coordinating and
supervising all nationally sponsored NGO and health care activities related to HIV/AIDS( program
monitoring) and also of managing the sentinel surveillance system (the primary source of information
regarding HIV/AIDS epidemiology in Benin). The activities of the PNLS unit to manage the long-term
planning, monitoring and evaluation of the national surveillance system has met with limited success. The
system, currently based on a total of 11 sentinel surveillance sites, does not allow the PNLS to collect
representative epidemiological data from all the 12  departments (6 regions) of the country, nor to
adequately differentiate between urban and rural areas, nor to systematically consolidate, review and
analyze the findings.
The Benin HIV/AIDS MAP will support the design and implementation of an overall M&E system which
strengthens and integrates both program monitoring and surveillance to complement the current initiatives
and alleviate the limitations. As a comprehensive M & E system, the objectives are to:
* Effectively manage the identification, collection, consolidation of information to facilitate the analysis
and dissemination of essential information (both program and surveillance monitoring) to all levels and
stakeholders;
* Be a central warehouse of information on the success of the program activities (output indicators), the
evolution of the program (process indicators),and the results of the program in reaching its goals
(outcome indicators);
* Support efficient management of the Benin HIV/AIDS program through enabling managers and
decision makers at all levels to regularly review and improve intervention strategies based on current,
reliable information; and
* Engage stakeholders by sharing information on progress done, lessons learned and improvements to be
- 81 -



done through a participatory evaluation of project activities at all levels;
* Lay the foundations for a sustainable system of ongoing behavioral and epidemiological surveillance;
The multi-sectoral and decentralized nature of the program necessitates a significant investment in order to
develop a sound, comprehensive and sustainable program monitoring/evaluation and surveillance
system.The M&E specialists to be subcontracted by the national and regional project implementation units
will work with the executing agencies, from community to national level, and with the Technical Secretariat
of the CNLS (formerly the PNLS unit ) to ensure the implementation of a data collection, reporting,
supervision and review system linking these implementation and coordination bodies at various levels. It
will be necessary to capture input, process and output data from various executing and supervisory
agencies of variable degrees of efficiency and effectiveness. Given the program 's reliance on decentralized
executing agencies, it will also be necessary to incorporate reporting mechanisms on coherent sets of
indicators into all contracts and conventions funded by the Credit. The M&E specialists will also work with
the CNLS Technical Secretariat, universities, national research institutions and private consulting agencies
to systematically structure a sustainable system of surveillance of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Benin.
Whereas Program monitoring tracks day to-day activities and simply measures changes over time (short- to
medium term), surveillance tries to measure the results of those changes( impact) and determine the cause
of those changes (long-term). Although the indicators used both for program monitoring and surveillance
may be the same, the data collection methods and analytical techniques are quite different, and are
explained in the sections below.
Program monitoring
The information collected and analyzed as part of program monitoring will mainly cover aspects of the
process of program implementation and will align those processes with the overall program development
objectives. Program monitoring will utilize project-based data, from beneficiary and executing agencies;
namely, information collected by activity on inputs, process and outputs as part of the standardized
reporting on project activities and the related supervision process of executing and coordinating agencies,
whilst beneficiary inputs will include community-based M&E activities and other targeted beneficiary
assessments contracted by the project. Such information will be generated by ministries and their
decentralized representatives, NGOs, associations, public and private health facilities, private sector
organizations and community groups. M&E representatives at the commune, regional and national
program management units will be trained and equipped with a set of tools and procedures to collect,
consolidate and analyze data to facilitate their own coordination and decision making roles. The simple and
standardized forms consolidating essential information will be forwarded to the central M&E unit.
Features of the program monitoring system will include:
* Identification and consolidation of community-based M&E indicators;
* Training and capacity building initiatives at the national, local and community level on effective M&E
skills by intermediary organizations;
* Standardized methods and tools to facilitate consistent collection, consolidation and sharing of
information to better coordinate the multi-sectoral approaches and needs of multiple stakeholders;
*   A computerized information system at the national and departmental levels to integrate data collected
from the various actors;
* Regular, integrated reporting on physical progress and financial results to support the decision making
process at all levels;
* Annual independent extemal technical and process audits by consultants of community and local
implementing entities on a random sample basis;
- 82 -



*   Annual program  evaluations and strategic planning exercises for each component (community
response, health and other sectors response, and coordination, monitoring and evaluation);
*   A clearly defined dissemination plan to ensure transparency and accountability to beneficiaries at all
levels.
The Government's National Strategic Framework for the Fight against HIV/AIDS/STI contains a list of
objectives and strategic actions, but does not include a detailed logical framework linking inputs, process,
outputs, outcome (program) indicators nor impact( epidemiological surveillance) indicators. The logical
framework of the Benin HIV/AIDS PAD has used the categories of indicators established by UNAIDS;
namely: measures of social mobilization; care and support; blood safety; mother to child transmission;
voluntary testing and counseling, and policy, as a way of structuring the range of program output/process
and outcome indicators. Using the National Strategy and the indicators in Annex I of the PAD as the basis
for the discussion, following the appraisal mission, IDA convened key stakeholders in a participatory
workshop, in order to build a consensus on the key indicators required for establishing countrywide
consistency in monitoring progress towards achieving program objectives. Given the successful outcome of
the workshop and the Borrower's agreement at the recently completed Credit Negotiations, to adopt these
categories as a framework for the program indicators, these categories will serve as a basis for presenting
and selecting perfonnance indicators in all proposals and in the conventions, financial management
agreements and contracts funded by the Benin HIV/AIDS program. The adoption of this categorization of
indicators will be proposed at the first meeting of CNLS after Credit effectiveness to facilitate aggregation
of indicators from all CNLS executing agencies at decentralized and national levels.
The community-based M&E exercises initiated by the participatory diagnostic and planning process will be
a key source of information from the community Subprojects to steer the overall program towards the
needs of the beneficiaries. During the participatory diagnostic and planning process, the sub-contracted
agency will facilitate the planning and self-evaluation of Subprojects by communities through a series of
self-reflective exercises to assess and analyze their situation vis-a-vis HIV/AIDS. As part of this process
the communities themselves will identify  indicators which  capture  the preventive  activities,
capacity-building and behavior change priorities identified in their HIV/AIDS action plans.
An important aspect of the program M&E system will be an initial baseline, mid-term and final program
outcome evaluations. These will be in addition to the annual reviews programmed for each of the project
components that focus more on performance inputs, process and outputs. The initial baseline study, and
the midterm and final evaluations will be coordinated and supervised by the M&E specialist subcontracted
by the PMU and will utilize all of the information resources accumulated over the course of the
implementation of the Credit, including both impact and outcome studies and program monitoring data.
Surveillance
Given the history of monitoring the AIDS epidemic in Benin, there are various sources of data (internal and
external to the Government) that may be used both to establish baselines and to identify a range of
surveillance (or impact ) indicators, such as the HIV/STI sentinel surveillance system, the Demographic
and Health Surveys (DHS), the targeted sero-surveillance and behavioral surveillance and Knowledge,
Attitudes and Perceptions (KAP) studies.  One particularly important source for baseline data on
knowledge and sexual behavior will be the current behavioral surveillance study funded by USAID and the
French Cooperation. The identification of some national indicators, however, will require additional
baseline studies, for example indicators related to specific vulnerable groups (commercial sex workers,
truck drivers, urban youth, etc.). Some Epidemiological studies are conducted anmually by the PNLS,
however behavioral surveillance studies (both in communities near antenatal clinics and target groups)
- 83 -



should be repeated every 18-24 months to observe trends in key leading indicators. The M&E specialist of
the Project Management Unit will work closely with the M&E unit of the Technical Secretariat of the
CNLS to establish a working group with other donors, local and external research institutions to tap into
locally available expertise and skills and coordinate these surveillance research studies.
Benin HIV/AIDS Program Performance Indicators
The program performance indicators identified in Annex I of the PAD have been selected from the
UNAIDS categories referenced above, and formulated to measure changes in the program outputs,
processes and outcomes.
Indicator Category  Output Indicators:
Social Mobilization   Number,coverage and type of Subprojects successfully completed at the
community level
Social Mobilization  Number of Grants and volume of funds sent directly to conmmunities to
finance HIV/AIDS Subprojects
Care and Support   Percentage of health facilities (CHD, HZ) that are currently stocked with
drugs to treat common opportunistic infections and to provide palliative care
and which report no stock-outs in the past twelve months
Mother to Child    Percent of woman testing HIV positive at antenatal clinics who are provided
Transmission      with a complete course of ARV therapy to prevent mother to child
transmission
Blood Safety       Percentage of blood units transfused that have been screened for HIS
according to national guidelines
Care and Support   Percentage of households with a chronically ill adult aged 15-49 who have in
the last twelve months received external help in caring for the patient o
replacing lost income
Policy             Number of non-health ministries and public sector organizations that
appointed focal points and /or elaborated HIV/AIDS action plans
Indicator Category   Process Indicators:
Social Mobilization   Number and coverage of implementing agencies mobilized to facilitate the
organization of local responses at the community level
Social Mobilization   Number and coverage of Community HIV/AIDS Committees established,
and/or trained and   having elaborated their Subprojects through a
participatory and planning exercise
Social Mobilization   Number of self-sufficient and functioning PLWHA support groups and
associations
Care and Support    Number of traditional healers and traditional birth attendants trained and
equipped with the correct information on HIV/AIDS/STI
Policy              Number of non-health ministries and public sector organizations actively
implementing their HIV/AIDS Action Plans
- 84 -



Indicator Category  Outcome Indicators:
Policy              Number of special studies conducted and used by policy makers in
formulating strategic decision on HIV prevention, knowledge, behaviors,
attitudes, care and support, etc.
Voluntary Testing    Percentage of antenatal clinics that offer counseling and voluntary testing fo
and Counselling    HIV by trained staff, or that refer clients to VCT services
Mother to Child    Reduction of the percentage of pregnant women aged 15-24 years seeking
Transmission       prenatal consultation who have HIV
Care and Support    Reduction of the percentage of pregnant women aged 15-24 years seeking
prenatal consultation who test positive for STIs
Social Mobilization   Reduction in the percentage of core transmitter groups (i.e.CSW, truck
drivers) who test positive for HIV, in reference to baseline study
Main activities during year one
During the first year, the main objectives will be to construct the management information system designed
during appraisal,including installing the tools for collect ion and analysis of information, and to build
capacities to achieve an adequate scaled-up level of functioning for the . CNLS countrywide program
M&E system. This will involve building capacities to collect, analyze and report, on a regular basis , on
the output/process/outcome data related to all project activities from the communal level to the department
and national levels.The institutional capacity for epidemiological surveillance will also be strengthened
early on during implementation by providing targeted technical assistance. Consultants will be contracted
to carry out the baseline studies and to guide the CNLS in identifying a fuller range of nationally
representative indicators for tracking the trend of the epidemic in Benin.
- 85 -



Additional
Annex 12
Institutional Organigram
National HIV/AIDS Control Committee
(CNLS)
Decision-Making                 Technical Secretariat             Concertation &
Organ                                                            Promotion Organ
Executing Ministries &           Project Management
other Institutions
Departmental HIV/AIDS
Control Committee                  Financing                Financial
(CDLS)                       Approbation              Management
Communal HIV/AIDS Control
Committee
(CCLS)
District H1V/AIDS Control                                      Associations
Committee                                               Consultants
(DALS)                                                 Private Sector
<    J    t   _       * ~~~~~Associations of
[         V: CD      ~       ~ PLWHA
Village HIV/AIDS Control                                   *  Vulnerable
Committee                                               groups
(CVLS)                             i                   Etc.
- 86 -



Project Management Organigram
Technical Secretariat of
CNLS
Project Management Unit
Manager
|Financial Management   i                                  Monitoring & Evaluation 
Chief                                                     Chief
HIV/AIDS Expert
I  Accounltant       1E.
Fin ancial Manst486*t IArm
Procurement Chief                                                                          S*(EtrnaI e   1    |
L  Operations Officer
* Financial Assistant
Support to Public Sector Response                   Support to Civil Society Response
including Health Sector
- 87 -



Additional
Annex 13
Benin Multi-sectoral HIVIAIDS Supervision Plan
Introduction
This annex presents principles and a framework to guide the complex task of supervision required for the
Benin HIV/AIDS project,in line with the recent instruction of the Africa Regional Leadership Team (RLT):
The US$500 Million Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) 1 "Progress Review Mission ". It also presents
the supervision schedule and associated budget for year one of project implementation.
The project will require intensive supervision. The term supervision is used here generically to include
both (i) the mandatory supervision of the fiduciary management of the project; and (ii) the provision of
operational implementation support, through consistent efforts to integrate the findings from best practices
and experience elsewhere, as a means of ensuring quality achievement of the project objectives. The factors
which justify intensive supervision responsibilities are best summarized as follows: the MAP approach
represents a new Bank instrument (Phasel MAP) combining three convergent but complex development
strategies: multi-sector execution, multi-implementation channels, and programmatic lending. For the Benin
HIV/AIDS MAFP project, this includes the mobilization and involvement of many different civil society
organizations and public sector agencies, and executing a broad range of activities at all levels of
decentralization, from the community upwards. The project is based on a "leaming by doing approach",
and will be launched in the context of recently reactivated institutions, the National HIV/AlDS Strategy
Committee (CNLS) or the yet to be established CNLS Technical Secretariat. This combination of
innovative approaches requires similarly innovative supervision practices based on the following focal
areas.
Strategic areas of focus for project supervision
The comprehensive approach to HIV/AIDS
Funding and executing a broad variety of HIV/AIDS prevention/care/mitigation activities through a range
of technical sectors, with a particular emphasis on scaling up, is new both for the Borrower and the Bank.
For both parties "to learn by doing" from this approach, will require consistent and sustained inter sectoral
consultation by each team member during supervision.
Ownership and stakeholders
The consultation with stakeholders of civil society and the public sector, throughout the preparation of the
Benin MAP project, has been able to build on the increasing commitment by the Borrower to prevent the
spread of HIV/AIDS in Benin, and in particular, on the Borrower's facilitation, over the last 2 years, of a
broad consultative process resulting in the publication of the revised National HlV/AIDS strategy.
Nurturing deepening ownership will be an essential part of the "management of expectations", in the Benin
MAP project; given that the scaling up process annually involves bringing new groups of stakeholders,
(beneficiaries and executing agencies) into the process. Ensuring that this iterative process of stakeholders
consultation is sustained throughout the implementation of the project, whilst at the same time ensuring that
the project strengthens the capacity of the CNLS in this role, will require assumption of this responsibility
by each team member during supervision.
- 88 -



Consultation and consensus building has likewise been important with the partners of the Benin UN Theme
Group for HIV/AIDS during project preparation, given both the range/level of their existing financial and
technical assistance to the Borrower, and their important involvement in the recent National Strategy
process. Sustaining this consensus during project implementation will be essential, if the objective of
involving all development partners in executing their activities under the oversight of the CNLS is to be
achieved. A key strategy is that the UN Specialized agencies and bilateral partners will participate in the
project supervision, in their respective areas of technical and program expertise.
New Institutions
The reactivated CNLS; the as yet to be newly established CNLS technical secretariat, with an
unprecedented facilitation and coordination role (as opposed to a program execution role); the range of new
implementing agencies, (interested to secure access to project financing but unfamiliar with procurement
practices, fiduciary and program reporting requirements); the need to empower PLWHAs with the
possibility of fonning their own associations; the scale and innovative nature of the anticipated institutional
mobilization is ambitious, and the supervision teams will need to include specific expertise in this domain.
Financial Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
The Benin MAP project has had a particular advantage in being able to build on the experience of
community based participatory development and the simple financial mechanisms required for direct
community financing which have been successfully tested and proven over the last 5 years in the
implementation of a number of IDA sectoral credits. However, the project's provision for the scaling up of
this approach and for subcontracting and financial management agreements with executing agencies and
collaborating partners under all three project components is a key innovation, and will require consistent
and regular supervision. The principle that an effective Program M&E system is part of the fiduciary
management architecture was built into this earlier experience with community development-financing and
the same principle has been built into the project design. Establishing a common M&E/fiduciary
management reporting framework for application by the CNLS is the project's most ambitious objective. It
will be essential for supervision teams to include specific expertise to support its implementation
Objectives and Schedule of Supervision Missions.
In FY02 , during the first six months following Board presentation, the project will have two supervision
missions:
1) First Mission in January 2002 (2 weeks after Board presentation 01/02) will involve follow-up by the
Benin based TTL and other resident staff to assess the status of activities to comply with effectiveness
conditions; and in particular to assist the project to get a jump start on implementation activities by
ensuring the early preparation of Year 1 Work plans and Budgets.
2) Second Mission in March 2002
The Borrower anticipates Project effectiveness 03/15/01. This second mission, as a first formal and
comprehensive supervision mission, would participate in the overall Project launch, and especially the
Project launch communication initiative and regional mobilization workshops; reassess the status of
planned activities for Year 1 in all three components, and maintaining the specialist focus in the three areas
of M&E. Partnerships and Institutional issues: namely (a) ensuring the launch of the project wide
application of the common M&E Framework (first results to be available end of Year 1); (b) ensuring
- 89 -



signature of MoU with partners in project supervision; (c) assessing status of establishment and
institutional functions of CNLS/secretariat. One special topic for the Project launch will be to define the
participation of the other partners in the project supervision along with their specific input.
Objectives and Supervision Schedule Year 24
The project will run on the basis of the calendar budget year of the Borrower (Jan-Dec). The supervision
schedule for FY03 (Year I/Year 2 of the Project) and future years will be finalized by the TTL, in
consultation with the Borrower, supervising partners and the Country Team, by the end of each preceding
year. The Bank will conduct two formal supervision missions each year. (See below) The two formal
missions (by calendar and fiscal year) should be timed as follows: (i) one mission by the end of April, to be
able to review the end of calendar year and the new year's Ist quarter's data, and to participate in the bi
annual CNLS meeting, for discussion of these project results and those of other agencies implementing the
National HIV/AIDS Strategy; (ii) one mission by end of October, to be able to review the results of the
third quarter, and to participate in the biannual CNLS meeting, for program planning for the following
calendar year.
As with the Year One supervision missions, the general objectives will be to support and monitor the
execution of the overall project work plan for the given year, namely to a) continue to support the
consolidation of the activities of the PMU, the CNLS secretariat, and the CNLS; b) assess, discuss, and
advise the PMU, its 6 regional outreach teams on project implementation issues, c) monitor implementation
against agreed targets in the various sectoral and CDLS (departmental) work plans, the annual action plans
in the contracts and financial agreements with implementing agencies and communities; d) monitor and
assess project results against the PAD, with a particular view to any changes in the identified risk
scenarios. Specialist support will continue to be required in the three identified areas of expertise of:
Partnerships; Institutions: M&E.
Composition of the Supervision Missions
The above schedule and objectives for the project supervision missions is based on the extended
multi-sectoral supervision team model, with Task Leadership carried by the TTL resident in Benin. For the
Benin MAP project, this model also assumes that in addition to the biannual fornal supervision missions,
(with specialist expertise in required areas) there will be interim field visit implementation support from the
TTL and other Country Office members of the Task Team, complemented by HQ based sectoral staff in
combination with other missions to Benin. Given the specificity of this project, especially with regard to its
multi-sectorality and multiple executing agencies, the field-based TTL and other Country Office staff will
ensure a very close interim implementation support to the Project Management Unit along with regular
consultations with the CNLS's Technical Secretariat and other partners to provide appropriate guidance.
Likewise, this model presumes interim field visits to project implementation activities, from in-country staff
of UNAIDS theme group partners and other executing agencies of the CNLS, with supervision experience
in program areas of focus common to the Benin MAP (such as blood Bank safety; health staff training in
Sites, social marketing).
- 90 -



The Multi-sectoral Supervision Task Team: Budget for Benin - FY02
Sector                      Budget
TTL and Rural                                    25,000
Health                                            8,000
Education                                         6,000
Transport                                         6,000
Gender/Social Protection                          6,000
Environment                                       6,000
Institutions                                      6,000
Partnerships (ACT/Africa)                         6,000
M&E                                               6,000
Financial Management                              3,000
Procurement                                       2,000
TOTAL                                         $80,000
- 91 -



Additional Annex 14: Financial Management Action Plan
BENIN: Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
No.              ACTIONS               RESPONSIBILITY          COMPLETION           EXPECTED        INDICATOR/
STATUS/DATE          OUTCOME        REMARK
I      Prepare draft manual of            Consultant            10/20/200       Working document Draft Manual
administrative, accounting                                  I            for technical    is submitted
and financial management                                                 discussions       prior to
procedures                                                               available at      negotiations
negotiations
2    Recruit Key staff of PMU including      PNLS               12/17/2001     Qualified PC, DAF   PC, DAF and
Project Coordinator (PC), Director                                        and PS recruited    PS have joined
of Administration and Finance                                             through a transparent PMU team
(DAF), Procurement Specialist (PS)                                        and competitive
process
- Elaborate and review the TORs        PNLS              Partially Done                       IDA
- Advertise position                   PNLS                10/25/2001                         no-objection is
- Select a firm to process             PNLS                11/20/2001                         obtained
recruitment                            PNLS                12/17/2001
- Select qualified candidates          PNLS                12/20/2001
- Elaborate employment conditions       IDA                12/22/2001
_- Obtain non-objection
3    Selection of a consulting firm to se  FM Consultant         12/31/01      PMU has adequate  - System is
up project accounting software:                                           financial          operational
management system  - Contract to
-Identify adequate software          Consultant             10/29/01     in place to monitor  IDA
- Set up system and train staff      Consultant             12/22/01      and issue report on
- Sign maintenance contract            PMU                  07/01/02      project expenditures.
4    Finalize Manual of Financial       PMU/Consultant           12/24/01      Project financial   Manual is
Management procedures                                                     management and      available
reporting procedures
are in place
5       Train project staff on Bank       IDA/Training          01/15/2002       Project staff is  Training
Disbursement, procurement,          Center/                              familiarized      completed at
and financial management          Consultants                            with Bank         Bank Country
procedures        Office
- 92 -



6      Assess financial                    FMS/IDA               01/20/2002      Determination of   Adequate FMS
management system                                                        adequacy of FMS   in place
7      Select independent auditor:           PNLS                12/30/2001      Independent       - Evaluation
auditor is       results to IDA
- Prepare and review TORs                                  Done          recruited trough
-Request proposals                                        10/29/01       competitive and    - Copy of
-Evaluate proposals                                       12/23/01       transparent       contract to IDA
- Select firm                                             12/30/01       process before    - IDA
- Obtain non-objection                                    01/05/02       effectiveness     no-objection
is obtained
8    Assess capacities to produce PMR      IDA/PMU              01/20/2002     Determination of    DAF able to
capability of system  prepare report
to issue PMR      acceptable to
IDA
9      Move to PMR -based                   PMU/IDA             At the latest 18    Capacity to    Acceptable
disbursement                                             month after     prepare adequate   PMR reports
effectiveness   PMR is available  are being
issued
- 93 -






MAP SECTION






ALGERIA                UBYA 
A---J  N  e-'                   2'                   N                                                                    4e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bi p ,-ddb,h
MURITANIA  MIpN0-2  U0  ho                                                                                                                                Wepnenecelhyehe k
NGER                                                                                                          d ... i,&i~~~\c    GE     ecccednnfeeeN-eh-aec
NOV21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                       lha -lp Se- n-I -ply. an he pant oF
4                             C-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~               The WSd Back Ge-ag e-e podSe-
T4J.  _IIGEDIA) V1F-0                                                                               Ae*                   ayedneee aacpene
2 C,eRG             AM ,5-       -   12TUK-A 
~~2-T   \J                          (4~                                Make-cello    -\2
ATZANW  QCAN               a            DAeA   nD)            ./N
B  U __                _ K   I_ N_A_-                                                                        '\ 
BUF        I     A AB nLeoe-_ 0 
,~~NATIT14_3~N
II/e       Ge-poe-ne-u                       N2            I        E    I 
Ci 1K6e
Te->                       '' G'CN
*Mo                                                                                         4                  iee-ecj~B-il
DEPARTMENTS--                                                                                                            BENIN 
;  \        .          NA-    /  ~~~~~~NAIOALCATA
ZOLJ                                                                                                          SECONDARY ROADSDoI
PLTAURUT  RICPAEDEPATCSI)E EMANT
\~~  J Q                                         PAEBAROU                            PAEDCOAD
MO GO                                     RoAILROADS
DEARTMENTSQU
o   LIUR                -*O-e                                                                                               RBVENRE       N
LITTORAL    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~/CHFLIEU GES 501U5 PREFECTURE
BQRGOU                                            I                                          N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EARTMNAT CAUNTAL JE
DONGA                                                                                     CH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UrE LIEUS DEPARTEAIENTS
oI    1 C     4L E    60ENAINL ONDRE
'CC,~~eC/  Sack                                   ROtUMTES DRINTAIEEFAICRSEPEhAE
KILOMFERS                                   A                 f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                     RIROD
IT  K
    ATLANTIGUE                  j~~~~~LO  A ~
U       2H      AUN  A                                                                                                          wghl -/c  - -    IENTT nA RONDRES
<e-  j~~~  Ajidja   K  -\  KeTe-u-  - -                     ILARITES D'ETATS~~~~~~~~~~~A



