                                                   Document of
                                              The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICE USE ONLY

                                                                                    Report No:ICR0000121




                   IMPLEMENTATIONCOMPLETIONAND RESULTS REPORT
                                              (IDA-35960-BEN)



                                                    CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNTOF SDR 17.8MILLION
                                   (US$23.OO MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO THE

                                           REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                                                    FOR A

                                 MULTISECTORAL HIVIAIDS PROJECT



                                                March 15,2007




 SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
 CountryDepartment 15
 Africa Region



I                                                                                                              I
IThis documenthas a restricted distributionand maybe used by recipientsonly in the performanceof their official
 duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (ExchangeRate Effective 12/28/2006)
                               Currency Unit =CFAFranc
                                   US$1.OO = CFA Franc499


                                       Fiscal Year
                                  January 1December 31


                        ABBFCEVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS


AGeFlB Agence de Financement des Initiatives de Base (Agency for Financing Grass-roots
      Initiatives)
AIDS   Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARV    Antiretroviral (drugs)
CALS  Comite' d2rrondissement de Lutte contre le SIDA (District Level HIVIAIDS Control
      Committee)
CAS    CountryAssistance Strategy
CBO    CommunityBased Organization
CCLS  Comitd Communal de Lutte contre le Sida (Communal HIVIAIDS Control
      Committee)
CDLS  Comite'Departemental de Lutte contre le Sida (DepartmentalHIVIAIDS Control
      Committee)
CIDA   Canadian International DevelopmentAssistance
CNLS   Comite'National de Lutte contre le Sida (National HIVIAIDS Control Committee)
CSO    Civil SocietyOrganization
CVLS  Comite' Villageois de Lutte contre le Sida (Villagelevel HIVIAIDS Control
      Committee)
EU    European Union
GTZ   Gesellschaftfur Technische Zusamrnmenarbeit (German Agency for Technical
      Cooperation)
HIV   Human ImmunodeficiencyVirus
IDA   International Development Association
IEC   Information Education Communication
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MAP   Multisectoral HIVIAIDS Program for Afiica
MOH   Ministry of Health
MTCT  Mother To Child Transmission
NGO   Non-Governmental Organization
PERAC Public ExpenditureReform Adjustment Credit
PLWHA People Living With HIVIAIDS
PMU   Project ManagementUnit
PNLS  Programme National de Lutte contre le Sida (NationalHIVIAIDS Control
      Program)
                                            ..
                                            11

PPLS   Projet Multisectoriel de Lutte contre le VWSIDA
STIs   SexuallyTransmissible Infections
UNAIDS United Nations AIDS Program
UNDP   United Nations DevelopmentProgram
UNICEF United Nations Children'sFund
USAID  United States Assistance for International Development




                    Acting Vice President: Hartwig Schafer

                         Country Director: James P. Bond

                   Acting SectorManager: Francois G. Le Gall

                     Proiect Team Leader: Nicolas Ahouissoussi    I

                                                    BENIN
                        MULTISECTORAL HIVIAIDS PROJECT




                                                CONTENTS



A.Basic Information..............................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                v
B. Key Dates...........................  ............................................................................................
                                                                                                                                v
C. Ratings Summary................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                v
D. Sector and Theme Codes...................................................................................................   vi
E.Bank Staff...........................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                               vi
F.Results FrameworkAnalysis..............................................................................................      vi
G.Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ............................................................................          ix
H.Restructuring(if any).........................................................................................................
                                                                                                                               ix
I. Disbursement Profile ..........................................................................................................
                                                                                                                               ix
1.Project Context, Development Objectives,and Design....................................................... 1
2.Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................................4
3. Assessment of Outcomes.....................................................................................................  7
4.Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................13
5.Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.............................................................. 13
6.Lessons Learned..............................................................................................................16
7.Comments on Issues Raised by BorrowerIImplementingAgenciesPartners....................17
Annex 1.Project Costs and Financing..................................................................................19
Annex 2.Outputsby Component...........................................................................................20
Annex 3.Economic and Financial Analysis..........................................................................24
      .
Annex 4.Bank Lending and ImplementationSupportJSupervision Processes......................25
Annex 5.Beneficiary SurveyResults .....................................................................................27
Annex 6. StakeholderWorkshopReport and Results......................................................... 29
Annex 7. Summaryof Borrower's ICR andlor Comments on Draft ICR ..............................31
Annex 8.Comments of Cofinanciers and other PartnersIStakeholders.................................50
Annex 9.List of SupportingDocuments ...............................................................................52
MAP (IBRD 33372)...............................................................................................................54

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Multi-Sectoral
Country:                Benin                 Project Name:
                                                                     HIV/AIDS Project
Project ID:             P073118               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35960,IDA-3596A
ICR Date:               03/15/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:              REPUBLIC OF BENIN
Original Total
                        XDR 17.8M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 17.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Unité de Gestion du PPLS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/19/2001    Effectiveness:         07/17/2002        07/17/2002
Appraisal:             07/30/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/04/2002    Mid-term Review:       02/15/2005        02/28/2005
                                     Closing:               09/15/2006        09/15/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):


                                              i

Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                17                 17
Health                                                           59                 59
Other social services                                            24                 24


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Gender                                                         Secondary        Secondary
HIV/AIDS                                                        Primary          Primary
Health system performance                                      Secondary        Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                              Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           Hartwig Schafer                    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         James P. Bond                      Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager:           Francois G. Le Gall                Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project Team Leader:      Nicolas Ahouissoussi               Nicolas Ahouissoussi
ICR Team Leader:          Nicolas Ahouissoussi
ICR Primary Author:       Turto Asseri Turtiainen



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
In accordance with the main goal of the MAP, the development objectives of the
proposed project are : (i) to accelerate, intensify, diversify, and empower the response of
civil society and the public sector to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. (ii) to build capacity in
both civil society and the public sector to achieve and sustain this scaled up response.

  The outcome indicators on which data have been collected were as follows:


  The number of pregnant women ages 15 to 24 attending antenatal clinics who test
positive for syphilis to be reduced by at least 2 percent in reference to the baseline study


                                               ii

  The percentage of women testing HIV/AIDS positive at antenatal clinics who are
provided with a complete course of HART to prevent mother to child transmission to be
at least 50 percent


  HIV prevalence among core transmitter groups (commercial sex workers, truck drivers,
youth, etc.) would decrease by 20 percent in reference to the baseline survey .

  The key output and process indicators measured the following: (a) the number of
HIV/AIDS subprojects and the amount to be used for their financing; (b) the HIV/AIDS-
related services and their quality at the health centers; (c) capacity building at the local
level, including the men and women trained in implementing agencies and traditional
healers and midwives educated in HIV/AIDS topic; and (d) the number of public-sector
organizations that have elaborated and implemented their Action Plans.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objectives were not changed during the project period.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target   Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value             Values (from     Revised          Achieved at
                                                  approval         Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)        Values         Target Years
                Build capacity in both civil society and public sector to scale up and diversify
Indicator 1 :   their efforts to stabilize the transmission of HIV/AIDS by empowering active
                community participation and multi-sectoral.
                                             33% of                            100% of
                                             communes;                         communes;
Value           Existing capacities          33% of                            61% of
quantitative or negligible in both civil     communities;                      communities;
Qualitative)    society and public sectors 50 public and                       47 public and
                                             private sector                    private sector
                                             agencies                          agencies
Date achieved 06/15/2002                     09/15/2006                         09/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Accelerate, intensify, diversify and empower the response of civil society and the
                public sector to the HIV/AIDS epidemic
                                              100 NGOs, CSOs                   652 NGOs, CSOs
                                             or associations                   and Associations
Value           Some activities against      work on                           have worked on
quantitative or HIV/AIDS but only in a       HIV/AIDs                          HIV/AIDS
Qualitative)    small scale except in
                health sector                prevention and                    prevention and
                                             care activities;                  care;
                                             19 public sector                  32 public sector



                                                   iii

                                          agencies have                      agencies have
                                          implemented                        prepared and
                                          strategies and                     implemented their
                                          annual plans                       strategies and
                                                                             annual plans
Date achieved 06/15/2002                  09/15/2006                         09/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values       Target Years
               Increased knowledge, organizational capacities and resources in communities
Indicator 1 :  and/or associations to effectively implement activities for the fight against
               AIDS.
                                          A total of 1,300 to
                                          2,000 community-                   3137 community-
                                          level committees                   level committees
Value          Limited knowledge and      against HIV/AIDS                   have been
(quantitative  no resources for           would be                           established and
or Qualitative)implementing HIV/AIDS
               activities.                established,                       prepared
                                          trained and                        subprojects
                                          elaborated                         documents.
                                          subprojects.
Date achieved 06/15/2002                  09/15/2006                         09/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Strengthened and expanded response of non-health public sector and private
               sector organizations.
                                          50 non-health
                                          public and private
                                          sector                             1,136 women and
                                                                             1,765 men worked
Value          Very limited response      organizations will                 in 100% of
(quantitative  from non-health public     install their focal                communes and all
or Qualitative)and private sector         units and
               organizations.             implement their                    ministries have

                                          action plans for                   appointed focal

                                          figthing against                   points

                                          HIV/AIDS.
Date achieved 06/15/2002                  09/15/2006                         09/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Enhanced quality of care and availability of health care services and information



                                               iv

               of prevention, care and treatment of HIV/AIDS.

Value                                     At least 50% of

(quantitative  not available              women tested HIV             56%
or Qualitative)                           positive received
                                          ARV therapy
Date achieved 06/15/2002                  09/15/2006                   09/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP         Disbursements
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1     04/23/2002          Satisfactory                Satisfactory              0.00
  2     11/07/2002          Satisfactory                Satisfactory              0.59
  3     05/12/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory              1.52
  4     11/04/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory              3.38
  5     05/13/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory              7.55
  6     11/10/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory             11.35
  7     04/15/2005          Satisfactory                Satisfactory             15.16
  8     10/16/2005          Satisfactory                Satisfactory             18.48
  9     05/25/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory             24.29



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design
This section is descriptive and is taken from other documents e.g. PAD/ISR; it is not
evaluative.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for
Bank assistance etc.

1.      In the context of appraisal the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Benin was difficult to
estimate with precision, because epidemiological surveillance and notification systems
were weak, people had limited access to formal health services, and the social stigma
associated with the disease remained strong. Nonetheless based on a 2000 Epidemiological
Surveillance Survey, UNAIDS concluded that the national rate in that year was 2.5 percent,
with wide variations between men and women, different regions of the country, and
different occupations. In 1996 the overall male-to-female ratio of infection was estimated at
2:1, but by 2000 the ratio was estimated at 1:1. Most distressingly, the male-to-female ratio
of infection for the 15 to 24 age group alone, by 2000, was 1:2. Similarly, the prevalence of
HIV/AIDS in rural areas had grown to 5.4 percent, in contrast with 1.9 percent in urban
areas, and among sex workers in urban areas it was 55 percent. Studies done by the
National HIV/AIDS Control Program (Epidemiological Surveillance Survey) in the early
1990s identified sex workers as a high-risk group. Overall, UNAIDS estimated that 78,000
persons between the ages 15 and 49 were living with the virus in Benin in 2000, and that
5,600 persons had died from AIDS in 1999.

2.      Awareness of the disease and its modes of transmission had continued to increase,
but was still not universal in 2000. About 30 percent of women and 10 percent of men
surveyed had received insufficient information on HIV/AIDS, its transmission, and the
means of prevention (2001 Demographic and Health Survey). The perception of risk for
each individual was even less well understood, with more than 50 percent of both men and
women -- including young people, single people, and clients of prostitutes -- believing
that they were not at risk.

3.      The value added by World Bank support was considered to be fourfold: (a) the
Bank had experience, and thus an advantage in relation to other donors, in mobilizing
substantial financial resources for scaling up the national program; (b) the Bank, through its
macro dialogue with the country on the Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit and
the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, was in a position to help the Government
mainstream a multi-sectoral approach to HIV/AIDS within the country's overall financial
and development strategy; (c) at the regional level, the Bank was instrumental in changing
the perception of the HIV/AIDS epidemic from a `medical issue' to a `development issue';
and (d) there were no other significant financers such as the Global Fund at the time.




                                               1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
4.      In accordance with the main goal of the MAP, the development objectives of the
proposed project were: (a) to accelerate, intensify, diversify, and empower the response of
civil society and the public sector to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and (b) to build the capacity
in both civil society and the public sector to achieve and sustain this scaled-up response.

5.      The outcome indicators on which data were collected were as follows:
        ·        That the number of pregnant women aged 15 to 24, attending antenatal
        clinics, and who test positive for syphilis should be reduced by at least 2 percent in
        reference to the baseline study.
        ·        That the percentage of women who test HIV/AIDS positive at antenatal
        clinics, and are provided with a complete course of HART to prevent mother-to-
        child transmission, should be at least 50 percent.
        ·        That HIV prevalence among core transmitter groups (sex workers, truck
        drivers, youth, etc.) should decrease by 20 percent in reference to the baseline
        survey.

6.      The key output and process indicators measured the following: (a) the number of
HIV/AIDS subprojects and the amount to be used for their financing; (b) HIV/AIDS-
related services, and their quality, at the health centers; (c) capacity-building at the local
level, including the men and women trained in implementing agencies as well as the
traditional healers and midwives educated about HIV/AIDS; and (d) the number of public-
sector organizations that have elaborated and implemented their Action Plans. The
individual indicators, targets, and achievements are presented in Section F.


1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority),
and reasons/justification

7.      The Project Development Objectives were not changed during the project period.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries (original and revised)
Brief description of the `primary target group' identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project.

8.      The project aimed to sensitize, mobilize, and empower the nation's entire
population to fight HIV/AIDS; this outcome could only be achieved through activities that
reached out to everyone. With limited funds available, the project also allowed for targeted
activities (e.g. at a high-risk group or high-risk locality) if the group or locality in question
was identified as a priority by a community, a sectoral ministry, or the CNLS (Comité
National de Lutte contre le Sida, the National HIV/AIDS Control Committee). The people
currently infected with HIV/AIDS in Benin, estimated at 160,000, were expected to figure
highly on a community's list of priorities. Other target groups included females aged 12 to
24; males aged 15 to 29; cross-border or long-distance lorry drivers and taxi drivers; high-
risk groups living along Benin's borders with Togo and Nigeria; male and female military
and police personnel; sex workers; male and female migrant workers; and the families and

                                                2

street children who scavenge at dumpsites. In addition and from the beginning of 2005
when the project started financing ARV drugs, 2,000 AIDS patients have received the
necessary medications through the project-supported PNLS (Programme National de Lutte
contre le Sida, the National HIV/AIDS Control Program).

9.      The organizations expected to benefit from the project were those that accompanied
and supported communities in the fight against HIV/AIDS. They could be grouped as
follows: (a) urban and rural communities, private-sector organizations, sector ministries,
public organizations and agencies, and the CNLS; and (b) NGOs in the health sector,
traditional associations, professional and occupational organizations, faith-based
associations, and private agencies. All these targeted groups identified at the project design
stage were reached throughout the project's life.

10.     It should be noted that the project's resources were thinly spread in order to create
awareness throughout the country and civil society; the follow-up project will focus on
targeted approaches and move from creating awareness to changing behavior.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

11.     The project was designed to support the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS
Strategy through three core components:

        Component A: Support to the civil society response
        The civil society response consisted of three subcomponents:
        · The strengthening of the institutional capacities of community-based
            organizations and civil society organizations, the implementation of awareness
            campaigns, and the training for and preparation of community subprojects.
        · The provision of community grants for executing subprojects.
        · The provision of financial support to civil society organizations that deliver
            prevention activities and care in communities.

        Component B: Support to the public sector response (including the health sector)
        This project component was expected to provide follow-up support for public sector
        activities, through two subcomponents:
        · Non-health sector Action Plans in line ministries and public and private
            institutions at the national level, to build their capacity to carry out short- and
            medium-term HIV/AIDS Action Plans.
        · Health sector interventions and activities to help expand the coverage and
            improve the efficacy of the HIV/AIDS program of the Ministry of Health,
            through the PNLS, the National HIV/AIDS Control Program, and a Program for
            Promotion of Traditional Medicine and Pharmacology.


        Component C: Support to project coordination, management, and monitoring and
        evaluation
        · Three activities were to be financed under this component:
        · The strengthening of the capacity of the CNLS and the PMU to coordinate,
            administer, and monitor and evaluate the project.

                                                3

        · The strengthening of the capacity of departmental, commune, arrondissement,
            and village committees to coordinate, and monitor and evaluate subprojects.
        · The implementation of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and financial
            management activities.


1.6 Revised Components

12.     The project components were not revised.


1.7 Other significant changes
I.e. in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations.

13.     At the end of 2004, the World Bank approved the financing of ARV drugs for 2,000
AIDS patients under Component 2, but this amendment did not change of the project's
scope. This demonstrates the flexibility in the MAP I design, in this case responding to the
country needs by scaling up treatment.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry
(Including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

14.     Benin's National AIDS Control Program began in 1987; a short-term plan and the
first medium-term prevention and control plan were designed and implemented between
then and 1993. A second medium-term plan, which launched the Government's multi-
sectoral but still limited approach in the form of the PNLS under the Ministry of Health,
ended in 2001. However because a genuinely multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS approach was new
to Benin, the project (MAP I, or PPLS) was prepared as a collaboration between the
Government and the World Bank team. During preparation, potential stakeholders held a
five-day workshop and identified the project contents. In addition, a team comprising staff
from key ministries, NGOs, and representatives from associations of people living with
HIV/AIDS was commissioned to follow through with project preparation.

15.     Multi-sectoral projects were new in Africa, but the preparation team benefited from
lessons and documents prepared for other MAPs as well as from the guidance of previous
workshops. In fact an 18-country workshop on community participation and HIV/AIDS
organized in Mwanza, Tanzania, in June 2000 showed that behavioral change can be
achieved, notably through the identification and implementation of HIV/AIDS action plans
that are based on community participation. Possibly even more relevant were the lessons of
several community-based, social sector projects in Benin, which identified 10 potential
risks for PPLS in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). As it turned out the mitigating
measures proved to be adequate, and the measures to avoid most risks were identified
during project implementation. The only risk identified at appraisal and for which the


                                              4

mitigating measures were not sufficient was the inability of the Government to provide
counterpart funds.

16.     There was no quality-at-entry review at the beginning of the project, but in light of
the comprehensive planning done at preparation, the stakeholders' involvement, the
consistency of the objectives with the CAS and the Government's strategy, and the fact that
all components were essentially implemented as envisaged, the quality at entry can be
considered as satisfactory. The project preparation was based on the knowledge and data
available at the time.


2.2 Implementation
(Including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

17.     The project was implemented essentially as planned, and there was no restructuring
of the project during its four-year period. The midterm review was thorough and provided
plenty of operational advice and recommendations, but it did not affect the structure of the
project; the project was never in a `risk' status. The only major problem occurred at the end
of the project, when the World Bank cancelled a part of the project funds (696,265 euros,
or about US$800,000) because of procurement errors (see Section 5).


18.     In the beginning of project implementation there were some difficulties in
collaboration with the Ministry of Health, since the project was not under the direct
tutelage of the National HIV/AIDS Control Program (PNLS) which is a directorate of the
Ministry of Health. However, through intense dialogue between the Bank project team and
the Ministry of Health and given the flexibility of the Project Implementation Unit, these
difficulties were sorted out and very good collaboration was established. The Ministry of
Health, through the PNLS, was directly in charge of all related medical aspects including
acquisition of medical equipment, drugs, tests, reagents, VCT, etc. This fruitful
collaboration set the stage for the key role MOH has played in coordinating and directing
the establishment of ALCO and linking the country project with ALCO.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

19.     Africa-wide studies and Benin-specific assessments have pointed out weaknesses in
coordination and M&E. Originally the project envisaged the establishment of a nationwide,
uniform M&E system. The start was however very modest, as only one person without
significant M&E experience was recruited for the task at the CNLS. At appraisal the team
had anticipated getting the system designed and implemented for all HIV/AIDS projects
within a year or two, but it took the full project period to establish a steering committee of
all stakeholders, including donor agencies, with UNAIDS leadership; to find financing and
recruit consultants to design the system and write the necessary documents; and to run
workshops to gain the endorsement of all partners. However at the end of the four-year
project, a unified M&E system for HIV/AIDS has now been developed and is ready for use
when the follow-on project begins.




                                               5

20.     Meanwhile, PPLS established its own project-specific M&E system early on, which
has produced the required quarterly and annual reports on time. In addition it has provided
much statistical data and other information, which, together with specific studies on
HIV/AIDS, have provided a relatively good basis for the HIV/AIDS strategy of 2006-2010.
PPLS also organized a number of special evaluation studies with the help of consultants
(see Annex 2). Nevertheless this project-specific M&E system was not linked to the overall
national health M&E system; the follow-up project is expected to address this weakness, as
a nationwide, unique M&E system framework has already been designed and is ready to be
used.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(Focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

21.     There were no safeguard issues other than compliance with environmental
requirements.

22.     Like other MAP projects, PPLS was placed in Category B for environmental
purposes. Consequently, international consultants prepared a comprehensive Clinical
Waste Management Plan as a condition of effectiveness of the project. With funds
available from PPLS, the plan was to carry out systematic training and capacity-building
(on the subject of HIV/AIDS waste management) for all health personnel responsible for
managing existing Incineration and Waste Management Units in medical facilities. Also,
under the Government's Public Investment Program, a model incinerator, designed by the
Ministry of Health and constructed locally, was to be provided for most of the
decentralized health facilities; more complex imported models, complying with
international norms, were to be allocated to centralized health facilities.

23.     The project provided funds for training health personnel as planned. In addition and
as budgeted, it provided equipment, medicines, and HIV/AIDS testing materials for health
centers and laboratories. Training the health personnel has reportedly changed the way that
medical waste is now treated, but despite the Government's good intentions budget
constraints have prevented the purchase of more advanced incinerators for decentralized
health facilities. The Government is proposing that this need be met under the follow-on
project. It is worth noting that the Bank is the only institution that supports the
Government's interest in addressing the waste management issue.

24.     There were no major fiduciary problems during project implementation, except for
one procurement case at the end of the project (see 10.2). The annual financial accounts
were submitted on time and there were no qualified audit reports.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(Including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

25.     The Government asked the World Bank for a credit of US$35 million to continue
and expand the multi-sectoral approach implemented by the PPLS. The Bank received the

                                              6

Benin Government's project preparation report and an appraisal was carried out in
November 2006, with MAP II scheduled to become effective in June 2007. The next
project has taken into account the lessons learned from the first project. The Government is
concerned about its ability to sustain the institutional capacity developed during PPLS; not
only did PPLS end several months before MAP II is due to start, but most other multi- and
bilaterally financed projects on HIV/AIDS have expired (the only new projects under
implementation are financed by AfDB and the Global Fund). The Government's
organizational setup for HIV/AIDS remains in place, but may be in danger of deteriorating
if adequate funding is not available for continuing HIV/AIDS activities.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
To current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy

26.      The objectives of the PPLS, the design of the project, and its implementation are
still fully relevant to the current strategy of Benin and the World Bank CAS.

27.      In early 2006 Benin unveiled a new, ambitious strategy to fight HIV/AIDS (the
Cadre Stratégique National de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA/IST). It is based on the same
multi-sectoral approach as the PPLS. The following `principles', as presented by the
Chairman of the CNLS (the President of the Republic) in the new strategy paper, are
appropriate for evaluating the relevance of the objectives, design, and implementation of
the PPLS:
    · The approach must be national, multi-sectoral, well-coordinated, and involve `all
         living forces'.
    · All interventions that have proved to be cost-effective must be scaled up.
    · All persons who need them must have access to HIV/AIDS prevention information,
         care, and treatment.
    · The rights of people living with HIV/AIDS must be respected, and the latter must
         be allowed to fully participate in prevention efforts and in the care and treatment of
         infected people.

28.      Finally, the World Bank's current CAS accords a very high priority to HIV/AIDS
prevention and care.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Including a brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details
on outputs in Annex 2

29.      The development objectives of the proposed project were to (a) accelerate,
intensify, diversify, and empower the responses of civil society and the public sector to the
HIV/AIDS epidemic, and (b) build capacity in both civil society and the public sector to
achieve and sustain this scaled-up response (see Section 1).

30.      On the basis of the following analysis, the achievement of Project Development
Objectives is rated as satisfactory.

                                                 7

31.    Inputs. The project provided inputs to the fight against HIV/AIDS, in the form of
financing activities. These were intended to:

   · Facilitate the civil society response (strengthening of the institutional and technical
       capacities    of  community-based organizations       (CBOs)     and    civil society
       organizations (CSOs); financing of CBO subprojects; and financing of CSOs):
       US$11.3 million.
   · Facilitate the development of specialized anti-HIV/AIDS units (Focal Points) in
       Government ministries; finance HIV/AIDS programs in non-health ministries; and
       supplement the resources obtained from other sources by the Ministry of Health to
       produce audiovisual materials, improve the capacity of personnel in HIV/AIDS
       matters, and acquire reagents, medicines, and equipment: US$9.3 million.
   · Strengthen the capacity to coordinate, monitor, and evaluate the HIV/AIDS
       program in Benin and to facilitate operational and financial management of the
       MAP project: US$4.9 million.

32.    Outputs. Project inputs, including those for coordinating the fight against
HIV/AIDS in Benin and for managing the operations and finances of the project, facilitated
extensive outputs that generally exceeded the targets set at project appraisal. The principal
outputs included the following:

   · A multi-sectoral approach, which engaged virtually the entire society in the anti-
       HIV/AIDS campaign. All relevant stakeholder groups participated in the project's
       work, and a wide range of activities were implemented in the public, civil-society,
       and private sectors (as illustrated below). This was per the overall MAP objectives
       approved by the Board in 2000.
   · Under `local responses', the project covered all 77 communes (municipalities) and
       funded subprojects in 3,137 communities, reaching 61 percent of the population.
   · The project helped to establish 33 associations for people living with HIV/AIDS
       (PLWHAs). Because of the project PLWHAs now testify publicly about HIV, and
       accept to be part of the sensitization process to convince peers of the existence of
       the disease.
   · Committees for fighting HIV/AIDS were established in 2,288 villages of the total
       3,754 (61 percent), in all 77 communes (municipalities), and in six regions (each
       with two departments).
   · Caisses de solidarité [`solidarity funds'] have been established, and accept funds
       reserved for the care of people living with HIV/AIDS under the community
       subprojects.
   · Orphans, children, and other vulnerable persons are being looked after.
   · Community-level care of PLWHAs has been initiated.
   · Activities to educate people about HIV/AIDS have been organized at the village
       level.
   · The religious community has been mobilized in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
   · Testing for the HIV virus has started in penitentiaries.
   · Sex workers have been organized into associations to fight HIV/AIDS.



                                              8

    · Under the `public-sector organizations including health sector response', the project
        was the main source of funding for HIV testing in the country throughout the
        project's four-year duration, and the number of HIV-tested persons (202,000, with
        1,223 positive tests) exceeded the targets.
    · As a result of the modification of the project's activities (i.e. through the project-
        supported PNLS), 2,000 AIDS patients were able to get the necessary antiretroviral
        medications.
    · A large number of traditional healers and voodoo practitioners received HIV/AIDS
        training (166 by the Ministry of Health, and 8,351 under the components of
        community subprojects).
    · Under the `civil society response', the project mobilized 652 NGOs and CSOs as
        well as 52 local radio stations for the fight against AIDS. Project funds were used to
        build up the capacity of the CNLS and its extensive field network.
    · Focal Point Units were established in 21 ministries; these units and 26 other public
        sector agencies prepared and implemented anti-HIV/AIDS plans.

33.     Outcomes. The first development objective (to accelerate, intensify, diversify, and
empower the response of the civil society and the public sector to the HIV/AIDS epidemic)
was fully attained or exceeded, with practically no shortcomings in individual activity
targets. An important outcome was the establishment of a large network of committees and
units (in the public, civil society, and private sectors) that were trained to inform the
population about the dangers and treatment of HIV/AIDS. Equally important was the
building up of a well-functioning mechanism to coordinate activities and send financial
resources to all parts of the country, including the smallest communities, for implementing
their HIV/AIDS action plans. The HIV/AIDS committees at all levels gained knowledge
of, and competence in, the implementation of subprojects. These outcomes are expected to
improve the implementation of similar projects (including other social sector projects) in
Benin in the future.

34.     As for the second development objective, to build capacity in both the civil society
and the public sector to achieve and sustain a scaled-up response, the outcomes were also
satisfactory as evidenced by large-scale involvement of civil society in the work of the
project, the public sector outputs, and the increased activities and efficiency of the Ministry
of Health. However the performance in some ministries was uneven, and according to the
Project Evaluation Forum held for stakeholders September 11-13, 2006, "the uniform
strategy regarding the Focal Point Units in the ministries was unsatisfactory, because of its
failure to take into account the special features and requirement of different sectors and
because of frequent changes of personnel and/or the unavailability of personnel for
HIV/AIDS-related tasks" (see Annex 2). Also, many field-level committees lacked the
funds to carry out their functions effectively (see Section 3).

35.     Overall the project exceeded expectations in its support to the Government, in
establishing an enabling environment and institutional capacity to facilitate the use of other
donor financing, and in addressing HIV/AIDS as a longer-term development challenge.

36.     Accounting was carried out for many CSO subprojects, using scorecards to increase
social accountability. In addition to the use of this successfully tested mechanism, other
governance and accountability measures for the follow-up project will include publicizing

                                                9

the proposals that are awarded in the public media and local notice boards; using
investigators as needed when there is suspicion; and using joint CBO/NGO/CSO databases,
especially when multiple donors are involved.

37.     None of these outcomes, or very few of them, would have been possible without the
project and the financial support by IDA. This project was by far the largest of its kind in
Benin, having more funds and covering larger areas and population groups than any other
donor project. If not for the project, neither the donors nor the Government would have
been able to expand their commitments substantially to compensate for any lacking funds.
During the latter part of the project period Benin received important support from the
Global Fund, but this support was directed entirely to the health sector and Benin would
thus not have been able to build up the public sector and society-based structures that the
project assistance facilitated. It is worth noting that GFATM support to MOH and IDA's
support to the PLNS complemented each other, and capitalized on the strengths of these
institutions to scale up the response. Moreover, without this project the multi-sectoral
approach of the fight against HIV/AIDS would not have become a reality in Benin. In fact
because of this project the fight against the disease has now effectively been understood by
all stakeholders as a development problem and not only a health issue (including among
health sector partners), and nearly all sectors have been engaged in the fight.

38.     Impact. It is difficult to estimate the impact of an HIV/AIDS project in such a short
period (four years), particularly because the activities accelerated toward the end of the
project cycle. The HIV/AIDS rate in Benin provides no guidance in this respect, because
different methods were used to measure the rate of prevalence before and after the project
(see Section 1).

39.     Nonetheless, there are some indications of positive impacts. According to project-
financed studies, more than 95 percent of the population of Benin is aware of the dangers
of HIV/AIDS and of the ways to avoid it. Behavioral change has been observed in at least
two aspects: (a) the number of people volunteering to take the HIV test (202,000) far
exceeded the expectations at appraisal, in fact the health-sector laboratories had difficulty
keeping up with demand; and (b) the use of condoms has become more common. Although
the number of condoms distributed by the project is not particularly impressive (845,000
male condoms and 1,500 female condoms), it is significant to note that as a result of the
project's initiative the `social marketing' of condoms is now organized through 913 small
shops and street vendors all over the country.

40.     The consultants who carried out the Government's final evaluation of the project,
reported the following findings on the basis of their extensive fieldwork:
    · Discussions about HIV/AIDS in the villages are now much easier and more
        `relaxed' than before.
    · The stigmatization of PLWHA and their relatives has been reduced, and people
        have `come out' in larger numbers and also agreed to participate in the work of
        PLWHA.
    · Acceptance of the need to address HIV/AIDS issues has increased among
        individuals and communities, as evidenced by the numbers of people who are
        taking the voluntary HIV test and the participation of the population in the
        community committees.

                                               10

    · Although community arrangements for looking after AIDS patients are not yet
        common, the need to tackle this problem is now commonly discussed in all
        HIV/AIDS committees and by local HIV/AIDS-trained persons.


3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g. unit rate norms, least
cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

41.     Separate, project-specific financial and economic analysis is not applicable to multi-
sectoral HIV/AIDS projects. There is no financial analysis done by any donor on the cost
of treatment and/or prevention. This will be addressed by the follow-up project.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory

42.     The overall outcome is satisfactory, on the following grounds:
           · The objectives of the PPLS, the design of the project, and its
               implementation are still fully relevant to the current strategy of Benin and
               the World Bank CAS.
           · Achievement of the Project Development Objectives (PDOs) is satisfactory.
               For the part of the project that dealt with community mobilization, the
               results, attaining or exceeding nearly all output targets, could be rated as
               highly satisfactory. However because the activities relating to the public
               sector were slightly less successful (as mentioned earlier the performance of
               the different ministries was uneven, and many of the field-level committees
               lacked the funds to carry out their functions effectively and with adequate
               motivation), the overall rating for achievement of Project Development
               Objectives is given as satisfactory (see Beneficiary Survey Results in Annex
               5 and Stakeholder Workshop in Annex 6).
           · The efficiency indicators, while lacking economic and financial rates of
               return, are acceptable for the type of activities and target groups that the
               project dealt with.
           · Using the number and increase of voluntary HIV/AIDS tests as a proxy (the
               202,000 tests exceeded any expectations in this respect), the effectiveness of
               the project's messages has been satisfactory at least.
           · The achievements of the programs conducted by the Ministry of Health
               were commendable, and included the production of three television films,
               three fictional documentaries, and six news items on television; the
               multiplication of brochures and pamphlets on HIV/AIDS; the strengthened
               capacity of staff (220), NGO trainers (78), and traditional healers (166); the
               supply of reagents, medicines, and laboratory equipment; and special
               initiatives, such as organizing the training of traditional healers and voodoo
               priests. An example of the latter was broadly publicized and discussed in
               Benin, when the project and the Ministry of Health organized an extensive
               information and voluntary testing occasion for the devotees of voodoo at the

                                              11

                convention in Hèvié, about 35 km from Cotonou. As a result, more than 300
                persons volunteered for an HIV test (with confidential results). Traditional
                healers testified that the training had convinced them that they must advise
                young people to use condoms, to avoid HIV, and not to trust traditional
                methods of prevention. Voodoo priestesses for their part declared that they
                had worked with the project already prior to the Hèvié occasion, and learned
                that they must not use the same blades or knives for several persons when
                carrying out rituals or performing traditional scarring.
            · The project helped to create and support an enabling environment for multi-
                donor response and scaling-up. All partners agree on the need to promote
                the `three ones', but they are not yet ready to pool funds in one program.
                However they are willing to plan annual activities and budgets together
                under the guidance of the CNLS, as well as to participate in joint
                implementation supervision missions.
            · Coordination with the Ministry of Health has significantly improved, and
                the CNLS and PNLS are working together effectively.
            · Social accountability and governance have improved with the use of score
                cards, whereby a voice was given to the communities in appreciating the
                receipt and management of funds by their peers.
            · Multi-sectorality in the fight against HIV/AIDS has become common sense;
                nearly all sectors have been engaged in a fight, which was perceived for a
                long time as only a health issue.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(If any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

43.     The project was not aimed at poverty reduction, but project authorities indicated
that HIV/AIDS has a disproportionately severe effect on poor people: the latter are less
knowledgeable about HIV/AIDS and thus more vulnerable, and it is more difficult for them
to access service facilities. The project, through its local community approach, has reduced
inequality in this respect. Overall, the project very much contributed towards poverty
reduction by contributing to a healthier population, healthier PLWHA who can continue to
be part of the work force, income generation activities for PLWHA, and addressing the
legal rights of PLWHA and their dependents.

44.     Gender concerns were regarded at appraisal as an important theme (after fighting
HIV/AIDS, assuring the participation of stakeholders, and engaging civil society). Taking
gender concerns as an important aspect of the project was appropriate, because women in
Benin are twice as vulnerable to HIV as men (see 6.1). The project has promoted the
standing of women in many ways, not least by requiring that women participate in
communal, district, and village committees. As a result, about one-third of the members of
these committees are women. Also, the strong visibility of female employees in the PPLS
office, as well as in the CNLS and its branches, bears witness to the improved appreciation
of women in Benin's society.



                                               12

45.     The project has also promoted social development by bringing together people of
different social classes and groups, including sex workers and people living with
HIV/AIDS, through gradually improved participatory approaches in the planning,
implementation, and evaluation of project activities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-
term capacity and institutional development)

46.     The project financed long-term capacity building (see Section 3). It helped build up
an HIV/AIDS network consisting of the CNLS and its branches in the departments; Focal
Units in all ministries and in numerous other public agencies; community-, district-, and
department-level approval and monitoring committees; and hundreds of now-experienced
NGOs. The project also facilitated the HIV/AIDS training of 9,166 local community
leaders, 98,797 peer educators, 121 lay supervisors (agents d'accompagnement),
community representatives (porte-paroles), 58 committees of the caisses de solidarité, 220
health-sector employees, and more than 8,000 traditional healers and midwives. These
achievements represent long-term capacity-building and provide an institutional basis of
sustainability that, with continued financing, will survive.

47.     The project helped to consolidate the working relationship between CNLS and
PNLS and the acceptance of CNLS as the coordination body of the fight against HIV/AIDS
in the country.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

48.     No negative outcomes or impacts have been noted; the one possibly negative
impact (a televised public service announcement that may not have conveyed the intended
message) was quickly corrected.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

49.     Summaries of the Beneficiary Survey at midterm, and the Stakeholder Workshop at
the end of the project, appear in Annexes 5 and 6 respectively.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

50.     The project helped to establish an enabling infrastructure to fight HIV/AIDS, all
project components were implemented essentially as projected at appraisal, and nearly all
the risks identified at appraisal were mitigated with the measures listed in the appraisal
report.

51.     Two remaining risks relate to the level of development outcome and its
maintenance: (a) the Government's poor financial position, and potential failure to provide
public funds to keep the administrative infrastructure going until new projects can provide

                                              13

funds to continue prevention, care, and treatment activities; and (b) the weakness of Benin's
health system, which hampers the country's ability to respond to the increasing number of
people who volunteer to be tested for HIV and to take care of AIDS patients under ARV
medication. The follow-on phase of the Bank and Global Fund programs and other
potential development assistance are expected to mitigate these risks, but Benin would need
longer-term global financing support to sustain its successes under the project. Capacity
needs to be built in assessments, operations, research, M&E, continued support to sustain
ART, and support to improve the health system. The question of health workers needs
long-term donor support.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(Relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)


5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending
phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

52.    The project was satisfactorily planned, and the appraisal team included medical,
social sector, financial, M&E, safeguards, and management specialists, thus ensuring that
the various aspects of a multi-sectoral approach and project implementation were covered.
The design of the project was good, featuring the use of an existing financial agency to
disburse funds at the community level, speedily and at very low cost (only the real costs
were supported by the project). It is of special interest here that this project supported the
preparation of a nationwide HIV/AIDS strategy, a central coordination body, and a uniform
M&E system before the term `three ones' was introduced (see more in Sections 2 and 6).
The Bank ensured participatory project preparation through a commissioned team
comprising key ministries staff and NGO and PLWHA associations' representatives. It
also provided adequate support through the presence of the Task Team Leader (TTL) and
Co-TTL, both in the Bank's Benin office, and through pre-effectiveness supervision
missions. Once the project began, certain shortcomings emerged, such as the excessive
number and general character of M&E indicators and the inadequacy of the operational
manuals (these had to be revised early on).

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

53.    The project was formally supervised at six-month intervals; one of the supervision
missions served as a midterm review. Given that both the TTL and Co-TTL, along with the
Procurement and Financial Management Specialists, were based in the Country Office,
monthly field visits were also organized on a regular basis to help solve arising problems
with adequate recommendations; monthly status reports were produced (and are available
in IRIS). In addition to the regular participants (TTL, financial, procurement, safeguards,
and community mobilization specialists, and the project assistant), the supervision teams

                                             14

had specialists alternate in different areas of the project, such as drugs, M&E, and
communications. The aide-mémoires were thorough and contained, in addition to status
reports on various activities, appropriate advice to accelerate and better implement project
activities. The Bank management reviewed and commented on the Implementation Status
Reports, encouraging acceleration of the project in the beginning and offering support to
issues highlighted in later reports. The Government and project authorities confirmed that
the supervision missions as well as the constant and timely assistance provided by the Bank
team throughout the project's life had been useful. However, the Borrower complained
about delays in procurement decisions, although any delays appeared to have been due to
the Borrower's lack of knowledge of Bank procedures; the Bank had provided adequate
training throughout the project's life.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

54.     The rating for overall Bank performance is based on the ratings of the lending
operation (project identification, preparation, and appraisal) and supervision quality. The
rather slow administrative procedures in approving the Government's requests for
adjustments, plus the instance of a faulty procurement case that was closed just before the
end of the project, justify a `satisfactory' rather than `highly satisfactory' rating for overall
Bank performance.


5.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

55.     The Government satisfactorily carried out the usual tasks associated with obtaining
a Credit from IDA (project preparation, appraisal, negotiations, and ratification of the
Credit). It also supported CNLS, and managed to make its Permanent Secretariat become a
recognized coordinating body for HIV/AIDS activities. Moreover, the Government
strongly supported the recommendations of the supervision and midterm missions, thus
enabling the acceleration of project operations. The Minister of Plan, who ensured the
tutelage of the project, personally carried out several supervision missions at the
community level. This shows eloquently the Government's commitment to the fight against
HIV/AIDS and its desire to make this project succeed.

56.     However, the `satisfactory' rather than `highly satisfactory' rating is based on the
following considerations:
        · The Government provided only 33 percent of the counterpart funds it was
            committed to provide.
        · The procedures for approving procurement decisions and financial reports were
            slow, and thus delayed project implementation to some extent.
        · The responsible ministry made a mistake in the procurement process, causing
            cancellation of more than US$800,000 of the Credit; and


                                               15

        · When it became obvious that several projects, including PPLS, would close
            before more funds were available to continue HIV/AIDS operations, the
            Government did not act quickly enough to ensure that these operations would
            continue without interruption, and thus was at least partially responsible for
            inflicting hardship on some people such as patients receiving ARV drugs and
            orphans in need of support and education.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance


Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing Agency Performance: Unité de Gestion du PPLS

57.     According to the implementing agency, the Project Management Unit (PMU) of
PPLS, in the beginning the project's implementation was slowed by both the Bank and
Benin's complicated procurement procedures. As a result, it took several months before
PMU could procure the necessary goods and services, including computers. However, after
this rather slow start, implementation accelerated over the project period as component
targets were attained and project funds disbursed. Several inventions helped to speed up
implementation, for instance beneficiary communities were linked with health centers to
take care of AIDS patients; solidarity funds were also established to finance the care of
these patients. The PMU was able to handle the problems that arose in all components
during implementation, often in consultation with the Bank project team, CNLS, and
development and project partners, with the outcome that all component output targets were
achieved. MOH, through PNLS, was able to carry out all its tasks including the acquisition
of laboratory equipment, tests and reagent, drugs, ARVs, and ensuring VCT etc.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

58.     The Government's performance is rated as satisfactory, and the performance of the
implementing agency was so strong and output results so impressive that an overall
satisfactory rating is also justified for the Borrower performance.


6. Lessons Learned
(Both project-specific and of wide general application)

59.     Community mobilization. The Analytical and Advisory Activities (AAA) studies
conducted in Benin and other studies have confirmed the positive impact of PPLS in Benin.
An important lesson here is that persons infected with and affected by HIV/AIDS can be
reached through community mobilization and the use of multiple channels. The process is
demanding, as hundreds of civil society organizations must be involved and trained (652 in
Benin), thousands of community-based groups established (3,137 in Benin), and nearly all
government administrative infrastructure engaged, but it can be done with good planning
and management and through innovative approaches.


                                                16

60.     Monitoring and evaluation. It is widely accepted that M&E are valuable tools of
coordination and management in HIV/AIDS activities. However, building up a nationwide
and uniform M&E system is much more demanding than project planners usually
acknowledge during the design process. It requires much manpower (specialists and
consultants), substantial funds, and years of time. To ensure that everyone accepts a
uniform system, it helps to establish a steering committee drawn from stakeholders
including donor agencies; to persuade some agencies to finance part of the process of
developing the M&E system; and to appoint UNAIDS to chair the committee.

61.     The `three ones'. Although the term `three ones' had not been invented when
PPLS was planned and appraised, PPLS contained all of its elements (a nationwide
HIV/AIDS strategy, a central coordination body, and a uniform M&E system). However,
the elements of the `three ones' were not fully respected in Benin. In particular, numerous
participants in the health sector implemented their own programs without coordinating
them with CNLS; it did not help that the turnover of staff at CNLS was high (three
Permanent Secretaries in three years). Toward the end of the project period however, the
Permanent Secretariat of CNLS was strengthened and proved to be a useful means of
common acceptance for the "three ones". A substantial improvement in the degree of
approval of the "three ones" was noted when a uniform monitoring and evaluation system
and its manual were completed (during the last year of the project). It was followed by
workshops for stakeholders (including donors) and training of staff centrally and in the
field. (See more about M&E in Section 2)

62.     Use of a Financial Management Agency. In contrast to several other MAPs, the
Benin PPLS recruited a financial management agency (FMA) to handle the downstream
flow of funds while the project's financial managers (recruited competitively from open
markets) handled the accounting, bookkeeping, and other fiduciary aspects. The FMA was
an experienced agency (the Agence de financement des initiatives de base, or AGeFIB),
that handled the sub-accounts in the field and cost-effectively passed along the funds
approved for subprojects to their implementation units. It later assumed some supervision
and monitoring functions in instances where the local government HIV/AIDS units were
unable to carry out these tasks.

63.     Several other observations made in the course of the final evaluation of the project
deserve to be mentioned here:
        ·    The process through which stakeholders participate in decision-making is
             burdensome, but it improves understanding and support and produces better
             action plans for project operations (PPLS increased the participation of
             stakeholders throughout the project period).
        ·    Although the multi-sectoral approach is good for tackling HIV/AIDS issues,
             not all ministries are equally valuable in this respect and not all NGOs are
             effective. Selectivity and prioritization are needed for the most cost-effective
             results.
        ·    The community approach is good for delivering the message to villages, but
             the health sector may not be able or willing to respond to the resulting surge
             of popular demands. Health sector staff must be trained, and health facilities
             improved simultaneously, if the community approach is to be fully successful.


                                             17

       ·     The stigma associated with HIV/AIDS infection remains an important element
             to keep in mind in HIV/AIDS work, but it can be reduced by effective
             programs including public service messages delivered by radio and television.
             In Benin the response to such messages, in terms of volunteers for testing, was
             so great that the health centers had difficulty coping with the demand.
       ·     At the end of the project, it is good practice to document the experience for
             the benefit of follow-on projects (the staff of the PMU in Benin did so in the
             form of several booklets. (See Annex 6).
       ·     The use of the scorecards mechanism proved to be very useful in encouraging
             social accountability and good governance at the community level. This may
             be coupled with the publication of proposals that are awarded in the public
             media and on local notice boards; investigators can be used as needed if
             suspicion arises.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

64.    The Borrower's observations are in Annex 7 (Summary of Borrower's ICR).

(b) Cofinanciers

65.    There were no cofinanciers for PPLS, but several development partners (multi- and
bilateral agencies) that were working in the HIV/AIDS sector at the same time as PPLS
actively collaborated with this project. Their views are summarized in Annex 8, Comments
of Cofinanciers and other Partners/Stakeholders.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

66.    A summary of stakeholders' views is in Annex 6 (Stakeholder Workshop Report
and Results). A summary of beneficiary survey results at midterm is in Annex 5,
Beneficiary Survey Results.




                                              18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal
          Components              Estimate (USD    Actual/Latest   Percentage of

                                       M)        Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

Support to the Response of Civil
Society                                   11.00             11.30        102.73

Support to the Response of the
Public Sector (including the                8.10             9.30        114.81
Health Sector)
Support to Project Coordination,
Management, Monitoring and                  3.90             4.90        125.64
Evaluation.
             Total Baseline Cost          23.00             25.50
Physical Contingencies                      0.00
Price Contingencies                         0.00
             Total Project Costs          23.00
Front-end fee PPF                           0.00             0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00             0.00          0.00
      Total Financing Required            23.00             25.50



(b) Financing

                                         Appraisal   Actual/Latest
     Source of Funds           Type of                             Percentage of
                             Cofinancing  Estimate   Estimate (USD
                                          (USD M)          M)        Appraisal

 Borrower                                      2.43            0.00
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                   23.00            0.00
ASSOCIATION




                                        19

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Support to the civil society response

1.     The civil society response consisted of three subcomponents:
   · The strengthening of the institutional capacities of the community-based
       organizations and civil society organizations, the implementation of awareness
       campaigns, and the training and preparation for community subprojects.
   · The provision of community grants for executing subprojects.
   · The provision of financial support to civil society organizations that deliver
       prevention activities and care in communities.

2.     The achievements under Component 1 are presented in the following table, for
which the data were provided by the PPLS monitoring and evaluation system.

                         Indicator          Objective/Target     Result/Achievement
Component 1
               Number of people                      -                  36,410
               involved in the launching
Sub-           workshops and meetings
component 1.1 Number of community                    -                   7,419
               contact persons and peer
               educators trained
               Number of community                   -                   1,741
               representatives (agents
               d'accompagnement)
               Number of Community              1,300/2,000              3,811
               Committees for the fight
               against HIV/AIDS
               established, trained, and
               featuring a participative
Subcomponent approach in the
1.2            formulation of subprojects
               Number of HIV/AIDS               750/1,000                3,137
               committees receiving
               support to implement their
               plans of action
               Number of community                 2,500        3,055, namely 61% of
               action plans implemented                         communities (villages,
               successfully, e.g. at least                      city and town quarters)
               50% of communities
               Number of caisses de                  -                    58
               solidarité established
               Project funds used directly At least US$6      FCFA 4.1 million, or
               in the communities to        million, that is  138% of the target
               finance HIV/AIDS             about FCFA 3,600
               activities                   million


                                            20

                   Amount of funds                         -           FCFA 186.1 million
                   mobilized in the
                   communities for funding
                   the caisses de solidarité.
                   Number of condom                        -                       913
                   selling points established
                   Number of support groups One national               A national network of
                   and operating, self-           association of at    more than 600 members.
                   financed associations for      least 25 members
                   PLWHA                          40 communal          32 communal associations
                                                  associations of at   with more that 40
                                                  least 10 members     members each
Subcomponent Number of NGOs, CSOs,                        100                      652
1.3                or associations
                   implementing HIV/AIDS
                   activities financed by the
                   project
                   Number of persons              200 women and        1,136 men, 1,765 women;
                   mobilized by                   200 men              these working in all 77
                   implementing                                        communes (100% of
                   organizations under the                             communities)
                   civil-society response, and
                   working at least in 50% of
                   communities
                   Number of traditional          192 traditional      166 traditional healers
                   healers and midwives           healers and          trained by the Ministry of
                   trained and provided with midwives                  Health; another 8,351
                   the necessary information                           persons working in the
                   about HIV/AIDS/STI                                  health sector, trained
                   prevention                                          through the community
                                                                       subprojects


Component 2. Support to the public sector response (including the health sector)

3.      This project component was designed to provide follow-up support for public sector
activities, through two subcomponents:
        · Non-health sector Action Plans (in line ministries and public and private
             institutions at the national level), to build capacity to carry out short- and
             medium-term HIV/AIDS Action Plans.
        · Health sector interventions and activities (to help expand the coverage and
             improve the efficacy of the HIV/AIDS program of the Ministry of Health).

4.      Under subcomponent 1, all ministries and numerous public and private sector
agencies have established Focal Point Units for Fighting HIV/AIDS (UFLS), in many cases
involving several people. These UFLS were established and running in:
        · 21 ministries.


                                                  21

        · 12 institutions (IITA, CCIB, CES, National Police, CNSS, six departmental
            préfectures and CPA).
        · 14 commercial entreprises (OPT, ORTB, CODA, IBCG, SCB, SBEE, SATOM,
            FLUDOR, COLAS, CIM-BENIN, SCB LAFARGE, YAHIK, TOTAL, POSTE
            du BENIN SA).

5.      During the period 2003-2006, support to the public sector and the health sector
consisted of strengthening the capacities of these Focal Point Units and financing the action
plans prepared by the ministries and public and private sector agencies. Altogether 70
contracts or memoranda of understanding were signed and implemented between the
respective UFLS and the Project Management Unit. Over 50 percent of the ministries have
been able to mobilize additional funds for the fight against HIV/AIDS through the annual
Government budgets. Of the private commercial enterprises, all (100 percent) have been
able to partially finance their HIV/AIDS action plans.

6.      Under subcomponent 2, support to the Ministry of Health has been provided
through the PNLS (Programme National de lutte contre le Sida), the Program for
Promotion of Traditional Medicine and Pharmacology, and the Program for the Fight
against Dental Infections. Support to the PNLS can be summarized as follows:
       · Support to audiovisual activities (three television films, three fictional
           documentaries, and six news items on television).
       · Multiplication of printed materials on HIV/AIDS (brochures, pamphlets etc.).
       · Strengthening the capacities of staff members (220), NGO trainers (78), and
           traditional healers (166).
       · Supply of reagents, medicines, equipment, and vehicles.
       · Implementation of special initiatives, such as a competition for the best media
           presentation on HIV/AIDS; the production of a document on the standards and
           procedures for fighting STI; and an investigation and clarification of high-risk
           behavior in relation to HIV/AIDS/STIs.

7.      The support provided to PNLS has allowed for the following: improved access to
voluntary HIV testing at the community level; prevention of vertical transmission (MTCT);
treatment and care of PLWHA; and epidemiological monitoring of STIs and the HIV virus.

Component 3. Support to project coordination, management, monitoring and
evaluation

8.      Three activities were to be financed under this component: (a) the strengthening of
the capacity of CNLS and the PMU to coordinate, administer, monitor, and evaluate the
project; (b) the strengthening of the capacity of departmental, commune, arrondissement,
and village committees to coordinate, monitor, and evaluate subprojects; (c) the
implementation of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and financial management activities.

9.      Component 3 financed the activities of the Permanent Secretariat of CNLS, the
CNLS field organization, the Financial Management Agency (AGEFiB), and the Project
Management Unit, including project audits and monitoring and evaluation. For CNLS the
project financed the purchase of two vehicles and a motorcycle, office materials and
computers, and the fuel for the CNLS vehicles for the duration of the project. Furthermore

                                              22

support was also given to CNLS workshops and conferences, including one for evaluation
of the strategic HIV/AIDS framework; to the training of CNLS staff; and to the
implementation of the M&E system.

10.     The gains made in the strengthening of field-level capacities, including the training
of committees, are summarized in the table above. In the case of the Financial Management
Agency (AGEFiB), the project financed the recruitment and placement of support
personnel, office-related improvements, and the purchase of computers for managing and
monitoring project operations relating to the flow of funds to communities and, to some
extent, to monitoring and supervision in the field.

11.     As for monitoring and evaluation, the project envisaged the establishment of a
nationwide, uniform M&E system under the CNLS. The start was very modest as only one
person, without significant M&E experience, was recruited for the task at the CNLS.
However with the guidance of a steering committee drawn from all the stakeholders,
including donor agencies and led and partly financed by UNAIDS, a unified M&E system
for HIV/AIDS has been developed and is ready for use when the follow-on project starts.

12.     Early on the PPLS established its own project-specific M&E system, which has
produced the required quarterly and annual reports on time. The project also financed other
activities of the Project Management Unit that were essential to successful implementation.




                                             23

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(Including assumptions in the analysis)


1.     Separate economic and financial analyses are not applicable to MAPs.




                                          24

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes

(a) Task Team members

       Names              Title             Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
                  Senior Financial
Hugues Agossou    Management            AFTFM      All related financial

                  Specialist                       management aspects

Lydie Ahodehou A. Program Assistant     AFMBJ      All secretarial aspects

Itchi Gnon Ayindo Procurement                      All procurement related
                  Specialist            AFTPC      aspects
Wolfgang M.T.                                      All related disbursement
Chadab            Finance Officer       LOAG2      aspects

Ayite-Fily        Senior Operations                Related health aspects

D'Almeida         Officer               AFTH2      and liaison with other
                                                   partners

Jean J. Delion    Senior Operations                Civil society response
                  Officer               AFTS2      aspects
Marie-Claudine    Language Program
Fundi             Assistant             AFTS3      All secretarial aspects

Midou Ibrahima    Country Manager       AFMCG      Related health aspects
Sonia Gnon Josiane
Nieri-Boko        Executive Assistant   AFMBJ      All secretarial aspects

Karim Olayinka    Communications
Okanla            Officer               AFREX      Communication aspects

Emanuele Santi    Communications
                  Officer               EXTCD      Communication aspects

Abdoul-Wahab      Social Development
Seyni             Specialist            AFTS3      Safeguards issues

Tshiya Subayi-                                     Orphans and Vulnerable
Cuppen            Operations Officer    AFTH2      Children aspects
Juliana Victor-   Monitoring and
Ahuchogu          Evaluation Specialist ACTAFRICA  All M&E related aspects




                                       25

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

          Stage of Project Cycle                             USD Thousands
                                       No. of staff weeks (including travel and
                                                            consultant costs)
Lending
                  FY01                                 28               67.87
                  FY02                                 45               88.03
                  FY03                                                   0.00
                  FY04                                                   0.00
                  FY05                                                   0.00
                  FY06                                                   0.00
                  FY07                                                   0.00
                                 Total:                73              155.90
Supervision/ICR
                  FY01                                                   0.00
                  FY02                                 10               22.46
                  FY03                                 46               74.04
                  FY04                                 52              106.28
                  FY05                                 57              112.29
                  FY06                                 39              117.40
                  FY07                                  6               30.18
                                 Total:               210              462.65




                                     26

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(If any)

Summary

1.       At midterm in the project, the PPLS contracted local consultants to carry out a
sociological survey on the views of project beneficiaries. The methods of the study
included sample-based interviews and inquiries, plus a review of existing project
documents. The samples covered the key participants in the implementation of the project,
that is, civil society organizations (CSOs), community-based organizations (CBOs), Focal
Point Units in the participating ministries, CNLS and its field organization, and bilateral
and multilateral agencies financing HIV/AIDS activities.

2.       The study first inquired about the satisfaction of the various groups participating in
the project. The CBOs generally endorsed the objectives of the project, and a large majority
of them or their committee members (74 percent) believed that the actions promoted by
PPLS will have the desired effect among the population, namely to change sexual behavior.
More than half of the respondents stated that, as part of the strategy to fight HIV/AIDS,
communication in order to alert people to the dangers of and means to avoid HIVAIDS
(sensibilisation) was `extremely important'. For most of the others, communication was
`important'. The views shared by the CSOs were essentially the same. Both types of
organizations confirmed that PPLS was the most important source of financing for
sensitizing the population on these subjects.

3.       As to care and treatment (testing for HIV, providing condoms, and taking care of
people with AIDS), the proximity of aid and services was considered important, even if
such services could not always be arranged very near to the beneficiaries.

4.       The CSOs and CBOs noted the following weaknesses in the project: some
television programs may have given inappropriate messages that the people in various
localities could not fully identify with; the financing procedures of subprojects were very
complex and burdensome; and the rate of rejection for subprojects and financing proposals
was high (18 percent, a percentage that dropped quickly once the communities learned to
fill in the forms correctly). Also, the budgets reserved for the community subprojects (up to
US$3,000 each, but often about US$1,000 equivalent) were too low, and the price of
condoms at FCFA 35 to FCFA 50 (US$0.08 to US$0.10) per unit was too high.

5.       In the public sector, appreciation of the dangers of HIV/AIDS was reported `very
high' (nearly 89 percent of respondents), whereas for the rest it was `a problem'. PPLS had
supported Focal Point Units in 21 ministries, and another 20 in other agencies, in the
preparation and implementation of sensitization strategies and plans. This support had
allowed nearly all key ministries and agencies to train their staff and carry out HIV/AIDS
prevention programs. For instance assistance to the Ministry of Education (which provides
more than half of public sector employment) facilitated the training of 202 educators, and
allowed them to pass along the message to the nation's primary schools. The promotion of
HIV testing resulted in substantially higher use of condoms in the military, and persuaded
400 military personnel to come forward for voluntary testing.


                                              27

6.      It was noted, however, that nearly all Focal Point Units had been late in
implementing their plans and in using the funds allocated to them; that some had been
unable to justify the expense of the first round of assistance, while others had already
started with the second round of activities. Sometimes staff members in the Focal Point
Units were poorly selected, and high turnover required continuous training.

7.      The external agencies financing HIV/AIDS programs in Benin endorsed both the
objectives of PPLS and the strategies to attain them.

8.      In order to achieve wider acceptance of testing among the public at-large, and to
better motivate the implementing partners, the study recommended that voluntary testing
should start at the higher echelons of politicians and public administrators. The inadequacy
of financial incentives was the principal cause of the lethargy and delays observed in nearly
all of the commune- and community-level organizations.




                                              28

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(If any)

Summary

1.      The CNLS and PPLS organized a stakeholder workshop on September 11-13,
2006, just before the project period expired. Over 100 people attended, including staff
members of CNLS, PPLS, PNLS, and other HIV/AIDS projects; departmental and
district-level (commune) administrators (mayors and préfets); representatives of CNLS's
field network; members of the Focal Point Units in all ministries; representatives of
international and bilateral organizations; members of the religious and NGO
communities; people living with HIV/AIDS; staff of the Financial Management Agency
that provided field services for the projects; traditional healers and midwives; several
radio personalities; and some 15 journalists.

2.      The participants unanimously agreed that the project, despite some inevitable
difficulties in the implementation stage, has been a success. Although measuring change
in sexual behavior in the short term is difficult, it was agreed that positive results had
been achieved and that these results could be substantially attributed to the PPLS.
Moreover a national infrastructure of institutions and agencies has been built, and this
will guarantee the sustainability of the project's legacy.

3.      The participants considered the following activities as special innovations:
     · People living with HIV/AIDS have formed their own associations.
     · Caisses de solidarité have been established, and accept funds earmarked for the
          care of people living with HIV/AIDS (under the community subprojects).
     · Orphans, children, and other vulnerable persons are being looked after.
     · Community-level care of PLWHAs has been established.
     · Activities to educate people about HIV/AIDS have been organized at the village
          level.
     · The religious community has been mobilized in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
     · Testing for the HIV virus has been started in penitentiaries.
     · Sex workers have been organized into associations to fight against HIV/AIDS.

4.      Notwithstanding the substantial achievements of the project (nearly all objectives
and targets were attained or exceeded), several shortcomings should be mentioned:
     · The uniform strategy regarding Focal Point Units in the ministries was
          unsatisfactory. This is primarily because of its failure to account for the special
          features and requirements of different sectors, and also because of frequent
          changes of personnel and/or the unavailability of personnel for HIV/AIDS-
          related tasks.
     · The project had poor results regarding the promotion of female condoms.
     · The rate of counterpart financing (33 percent of the committed amounts) was
          poor.




                                             29

    · Some objectives were only partially attained, such as the establishment of
        PLWHA associations and the full staffing of some Focal Point Units in the
        ministries.
    · HIV/AIDS testing, despite getting the attention of the population, was
        unsatisfactory because of its lack of confidentiality, tardiness in getting the
        results, and insufficient counseling services.
    · Although a basis for institutional sustainability has been provided through the
        new network of public, private, NGO, and religious sector representatives,
        financial sustainability is precarious: government financing is lacking,
        particularly with reference to ARV drugs, testing materials, medicines, and
        prevention activities.

5.     An extensive and detailed report of workshop proceedings is available in the
Project Files at the World Bank's Benin office (see Annex 9: List of Reference
Documents).




                                            30

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                          RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
        PROJET PLURISECTORIEL DE LUTTE CONTRE LES IST/VIH/SIDA


1 ­ INTRODUCTION

        Le projet Plurisectoriel de Lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA a été mis en vigueur le
17 juillet 2002 pour une durée de 4 ans. Déjà en février 2003, la plupart des conditions
pouvant permettre une plus grande visibilité des actions du projet étaient remplies. Ainsi,
au cours de cette année, les activités au niveau communautaire et au niveau du secteur
public ont réellement commencé. En distinguant les grandes étapes de la mise en oeuvre
du projet, on dira que l'année 2003 constitue l'année de visibilité de ses activités, l'année
2004 celle du passage à l'échelle et les années 2005 et début 2006, les années de
consolidation progressive des acquis. La date de clôture du projet est intervenue au cours
de la phase de consolidation des acquis du projet. Le projet Plurisectoriel de lutte contre
les IST/VIH/SIDA s'est achevé avec un taux de décaissement de plus de 98% après
quatre années d'activités intenses. Ce rapport d'achèvement, outre l'introduction,
présente les objectifs du projet, ses composantes, sa mise en oeuvre, les principaux
résultats, l'évaluation des performances des différents intervenants et les leçons apprises.


2 ­ OBJECTIFS, STRUCTURES ET MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET
2.1 ­ OBJECTIFS DU PROJET

L'objectif général du Projet Plurisectoriel de Lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA est de faire
ralentir au Bénin la propagation de l'épidémie du VIH/SIDA et d'atténuer son impact sur
les personnes vivant avec le VIH et les personnes affectées.

De façon spécifique, le projet vise à :

        · Accélérer, intensifier et diversifier les mesures de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA
        · mettre à la disposition de la société civile et du secteur public des moyens
             pour lutter contre l'épidémie du VIH/SIDA
        · renforcer les capacités de la société civile et du secteur public aux fins de la
             mise en place et du maintien des mesures d'intervention.

2.2 ­ COMPOSANTES DU PROJET

Le projet comprend trois composantes : les composantes A, B et C.

    -   La Composante A : Fourniture d'appui aux mesures prises par la société civile
        Cette composante comprend trois sous composantes :
                la sous composante A1 concerne le renforcement de capacités des OC
                et des OSC,


                                              31

                la sous composante A2 concerne l'appui aux initiatives des
                organisations communautaires et
                la sous composante A3 l'appui aux initiatives des organisations de la
                société civile.
    -   La Composante B : Fourniture d'appui aux mesures prises par le secteur
        public ; Cette composante comprend deux sous-composantes :
                les sous composantes B1 concerne le secteur public sauf le ministère de
                la santé et
                la sous composante B2 concerne le ministère de la santé.
    -   La Composante C : Appui à la coordination, à la gestion, au suivi et à
        l'évaluation du projet. Elle comprend cinq sous composante :
                la sous composante C1 : Renforcement des capacités du SP/CNLS et de
                l'UGP,
                la sous composante C2 : Renforcement des capacités des CDLS, CALS,
                CCLS et CVLS ;
                la Sous composante C3 : Suivi et évaluation,
                la sous composante C4 : Comptabilité et gestion financière,
                la sous composante C5 : Audits financiers et techniques.


2.3 ­ PROCESSUS DE MISE EN OEUVRE PAR COMPOSANTES
2.3.1 - Composante A

Trois (3) sous-composantes ont permis la mise en oeuvre de cette composante. A travers
la sous-composante A1, le PPLS a appuyé le renforcement des capacités institutionnelles
et techniques des Organisations Communautaires (OC) et des Organisations de la Société
Civile. Ceci a entre autres, rendu possible, la formation des ONG et des OAL
(Organismes d'appui au lancement) qui ont joué le rôle important d'intermédiation
sociale entre les communautés et les différents intervenants. La sous-composante A2
concerne les dons accordés aux Organisations Communautaires dans le cadre du
financement de leurs plans d'actions de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA élaborés par approche
participative pour mener des activités visant à promouvoir et valoriser les changements
de comportement. La sous composante A3 appuie le financement des sous projets
d'Organisations de la Société Civile (OSC) portant sur des activités :

        · des centres de soins et de conseil ;
        · des structures d'appui aux enfants devenus orphelins et aux familles affectées
            par le VIH/SIDA ;
        · des associations nationales et décentralisées des tradithérapeutes ;
        · de dépistages volontaires et anonymes du VIH/SIDA.


Dans le souci d'efficacité et en raison du fait que l'AGeFIB a des expériences antérieures
en matière de gestion de projets communautaires, cette agence a été sollicitée pour
assurer le transfert des fonds aux communautés et le suivi de leurs activités. Les plans
d'actions communautaires et les sous projets d'OSC ne sont pas admis à recevoir des
financements s'il n'y a pas eu approbation par les instances mises en place à cet effet.



                                              32

2.3.2 - Composante B

Dans le cadre de la mobilisation des organisations du secteur public (OSP), le projet a
contribué dans un premier temps à la mise en place d'un cadre institutionnel favorable à
l'appropriation des activités de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA/IST par le secteur public.
Ensuite il a renforcé les capacités des membres des unités focales de lutte contre le
VIH/SIDA puis les a appuyés à élaborer leur plan d'action de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA.
Les plans d'action sont ensuite transmis au Secrétariat Permanent du CNLS pour
approbation lors de la session budgétaire du CNLS. Une fois ces plans d'action
approuvés par le CNLS une convention annuelle de financement est signée entre l'UGP
et l'unité focale.

L'appui au Ministère de la Santé Publique s'est fait à travers le PNLS et l'unité focale de
ce ministère. Le PNLS élabore un plan d'action qu'il transmet au CNLS et aux différents
partenaires dont le PPLS. Le plan final retenu après discussion est transmis au PPLS pour
financement. Le PNLS donne ensuite les spécifications pour les acquisitions pour que
l'UGP entame les procédures de passation des marchés. Notons que le PNLS est associé
à toutes les étapes importantes de la passation des marchés pour les différentes
acquisitions. Le ministère de la santé préside les commissions d'évaluation pour les
acquisitions de médicaments, de réactifs et de matériels médicaux.

2.3.3 - Composante C


En dehors des dépenses courantes qui entrent dans le fonctionnement du projet,
l'Unité de Gestion du PPLS appuie techniquement et financièrement les différents
acteurs, l'AGeFIB qui est une agence de gestion financière assure le transfert des
fonds vers les communautés, leur donne des appuis techniques et financières et suit
leurs activités. Le SP/CNLS reçoit des appuis du PPLS. Il assure la coordination de
toutes les activités de lutte contre le SIDA. Cette composante assure les dépenses liées
à la coordination, à la gestion, au suivi, à l'évaluation du projet, à la gestion financière
et aux audits.

3 ­ PRESENTATION DES RESULTATS PAR COMPOSANTE
3.1 - Composante A

La mise en oeuvre de la composante A du projet a permis d'obtenir les résultats dont les
principaux sont synthétisés dans le tableau qui suit :

                      Résultats                     Attendus              Obtenus        Ecarts

        Nombre de personnes touchées                    -                  36410
        lors des ateliers et réunions de
 A1     lancement
        Nombre de relais communautaires                 -                  7419
        et paires éducateurs formés



                                               33

   Nombre                     d'agents          -              1741
   d'accompagnement       formés    au
   profit des communautés
   Nombre          des        Comités      1300/2000           3811       + 1811
   Communautaires de lutte contre le
   VIH/SIDA établis, formés et ayant
   conçu leurs sous projets à travers
   un   exercice    de   planification
   participative
   Nombre de Comités VIH/SIDA               750/1000           3137       + 2137

A2 recevant d'appui pour mettre en
   oeuvre leurs plans d'actions
   Nombre      de    plans    d'action        2500          3055 dans     +555
   communautaires      achevés   avec                      60,95% des
   succès         dans    50%     des                      communautés
   communautés                                              (villages et
                                                           quartiers de
                                                               ville)
   Nombre de caisses de solidarités             -                58
   mises en place
   Flux    des    fonds   directement Au minimum         4 097 161 667
   envoyés aux communautés pour 6000000 de               soit 138% de
   financer     les    activités    du dollars soit 3600 l'objectif
   VIH/SIDA.                           millions de FCFA prévues
                                       environ
   Montant     mobilisé     près  des           -        186.051.615 F
   communautés pour alimenter les                        CFA
   caisses de solidarité
   Nombre de points de vente de                 -               913
   préservatifs créés
   Nombre de groupes d'appui et 1 association            1 réseau national
   d'associations autosuffisants et nationale de 25      d'associations
   opérationnels                       membres           de plus de 600
                                                         membres.
                                       40 associations   32 associations
                                       communales de 10 communales de
                                       membres au moins plus de 40
                                                         membres
   Nombre d'ONG/organisations de               100              652       +552
A3 la société civile ou associations
   mettant en oeuvre des activités sur
   le SIDA et financés par le
   programme




                                       34

       Nombre de personnes mobilisé par 200 femmes et 200 Nbre            femmes :
       les organismes d'exécution et hommes mobilisés 1136
       travaillant dans le cadre de la par les organismes Nbre hommes :
       réponse de la société civile dans d'exécution dans 1765
       50% des communautés                        50% des         77    communes
                                               communautés        (100%)


       Nombre          de       guérisseurs Avoir           192 *166 Praticiens
       traditionnels   ou    de   matrones guérisseurs            de la médecine
       traditionnelles formés et équipés traditionnels ou de traditionnelle
       des informations sur la prévention matrones                formés par le
       du VIH/SIDA et les IST               traditionnelles       Ministère Santé
                                            formés et équipés Publique
                                            des    informations *8351Praticiens
                                            sur la prévention de la médecine
                                            du VIH/SIDA et traditionnelle
                                            les IST               formés à travers
                                                                  les         plans
                                                                  communauté

Les différentes activités menées par les organisations de la société civile ont permis de
façon synthétique de donner les résultats suivants :
  -   une meilleure connaissance du PPLS par les communautés à la base.
  -   l'existence en milieu communautaire des personnes outillées, capables de relayer
      l'information contribuant au mécanisme de pérennisation,
  -   l'amélioration de la participation des femmes à la mobilisation sociale pour la lutte
      contre le VIH/SIDA (les femmes représentent le 1/3 de l'effectif des membres des
      comités locaux)
  -   l'amélioration de la perception du Sida par les communautés qui reconnaissent
      désormais son existence et établissent des rapports analogiques entre les modes de
      transmission classiques et leurs pratiques quotidiennes,
  -   l'amélioration de l'accessibilité géographique au préservatif masculin
  -   la capacité des communautés à prendre en compte les problèmes des personnes
      infectées et affectées (comités porte parole des caisses de solidarité),
  -   La plus grande visibilité de l'implication des PVVIH dans la mise en oeuvre des
      actions de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA)

3.1.1. Analyse évaluative de la composante A

La mise en oeuvre du projet a été essentiellement basée sur une approche participative. Le
PPLS a associé les bénéficiaires à chaque étape de la mise en oeuvre des activités.
L'implication de ces différents acteurs a permis par exemple d'opérer le partage des
charges relatives à l'exécution des activités. Cette approche a permis d'utiliser moins de
ressources que possible pour la mise en oeuvre du projet. L'implication des communautés
s'est faite à plusieurs niveaux : d'abord elles participent au financement de leurs plans



                                             35

d'action en apportant 5% du financement total. Elles sont utilisées dans le suivi des plans
d'actions, ce qui constitue une garantie pour la pérennisation des actions en cas
d'achèvement du projet. Pour amoindrir les coûts de consultance, le projet utilise des
compétences locales dans divers secteurs (assistant social, agent de santé, spécialiste en
communication). Le projet s'est donc essentiellement basé sur l'existant (Utilisation des
services de l'AGeFIB, Utilisation des locaux de l'AGeFIB et d'une partie du personnel
d'de l'AGeFIB qui avait de l'expérience en matière de gestion financière en milieu
communautaire et associatif).

Tout le processus de renforcement de capacité des OC et des OSC notamment
l'élaboration des modules de formation des OAL, la formation des communautés par les
OAL, la formation des agents d'accompagnement communautaires était imputé sur le
compte spécial B. Ce qui a augmenté les dépenses au niveau de la catégorie 3.

Pour des raisons d'efficience, le projet a pris en compte les minima des montants
plafonds prévus dans l'accord de crédit. Ce qui explique que pour la sous composante A2
par exemple, le projet a atteint plus de la moitié des résultats attendus en fin de projet.

Les différentes actions entreprises au niveau communautaire, le recrutement et la mise au
travail des OAL, l'élaboration des plans d'action communautaires, la mise en place des
caisses de solidarité, sont autant d'acquis qui témoignent de l'efficacité dans la mise en
oeuvre du projet.

Le niveau de connaissance des communautés par rapport aux IST/VIH/SIDA s'est
nettement amélioré (l'étude sur la satisfaction des bénéficiaires à mi parcours l'avait déjà
révélé ; après la mi-parcours des mesures de renforcement de cet acquis ont été prises).
L'auto évaluation par les cartes a été une solution pour l'instauration de la bonne
gouvernance et l'apprentissage de l'autonomisation des communautés. L'implication des
radios de proximité a permis de booster les communautés par rapport aux connaissances
acquises. Ces radios diffusent les meilleures pratiques et conseillent sur les mauvaises
pratiques. Elles ont ainsi fortement supplée aux formations classiques.

3.2 - Composante B

3.2.1 Sous Composante B1 (Appui aux mesures prises par les ministères et autres
institutions)

De 2003 à 2006, l'appui au secteur public autre que le secteur de la santé a consisté à :
        - renforcer les capacités des membres des UFLS
        - financer les PALS des ministères, institutions et entreprises

Quarante sept (47) UFLS ont signé avec l'UGP soixante dix (70) conventions de
financement.

Ces UFLS se répartissent comme suit :
    - 21 Ministères



                                             36

    - 12 institutions (IITA, CCIB, CES, Police nationale, CNSS, les 6 Préfectures des
        Départements et le CPA)
    - 14 entreprises (OPT, ORTB, CODA, IBCG, SCB, SBEE, SATOM, FLUDOR,
        COLAS, CIM-BENINSCB LAFARGE, YAHIK, TOTAL, POSTE du BENIN
        SA)

Plus de 50% des ministères ont pu mobiliser des ressources au budget national et 100%
des entreprises ont toutes contribué au financement de la mise en oeuvre de leur plan
d'action de lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA.

3.2.2 - Sous composante B2 (Appui aux mesures prises par le ministère de la santé
publique)

L'appui au ministère de la santé publique s'est fait à travers le PNLS, le Programme de
Promotion de la médecine traditionnelle et de la pharmacopée et le Programme de Lutte
contre les Affections Bucco-dentaires
L'appui au PNLS se résume aux quatre points suivants :
        La réalisation de supports audiovisuels (3 téléfilms, 3 documentaires fictions, 6
        spots)
        La multiplication de supports imprimés (brochures, dépliants)
        Le renforcement des capacités du personnel (220) des animateurs des ONG (78)
        et des praticiens de la médecine traditionnelle (166)
        L'acquisition de réactifs, médicaments, équipements et mobiliers
        La mise en oeuvre d'initiatives spécifiques : Concours des meilleures productions
        médiatiques sur le SIDA, élaboration du document de normes et procédures pour
        la prise en charge des IST, l'enquête de surveillance des comportements à risque
        pour les IST/VIH/SIDA
Cet appui a permis d'améliorer l'accès des communautés au dépistage volontaire du VIH,
à la prévention de la transmission verticale du VIH et à la prise en charge des PVVIH. Il
a par ailleurs permis d'assurer la sérosurveillance épidémiologique des IST et du VIH.

L'efficacité du projet s'est traduite dans les faits par l'approvisionnement régulier du
PNLS en réactifs et en médicaments, ce qui facilite l'accès des populations au dépistage
volontaire ; l'appui à la PTME par la disponibilité des réactifs de dépistage des femmes
en consultation prénatale, l'appui à la prise en charge et au suivi des PVVIH puis la
contribution au renforcement de la sécurité transfusionnelle.

La disponibilité des réactifs a permis de contribuer à l'amélioration de la représentativité
de la surveillance par réseau sentinelle, à la mise en place de la surveillance de 2ème
génération puis à la réalisation de certaines enquêtes spécifiques. L'on ne doit pas oublier
le renforcement des capacités du personnel. Ceci a participé à l'amélioration de la qualité
des services dans divers domaines. La répartition des réactifs au niveau intermédiaire et
périphérique n'est pas encore systématique. Certains des acteurs de ces niveaux
d'intervention se plaignent de ne recevoir les réactifs qu'après des tracasseries multiples
ou à la limite de la date de péremption.




                                             37

La formation des praticiens de la médecine traditionnelle a contribué au renforcement de
leur implication dans la lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA et par conséquent de la
collaboration entre les deux types de médecine. Il y a aussi l'amélioration de la capacité
de gestion des réactifs et médicaments (chambre froide).

3.2.3 - Analyse évaluative de la composante B

La formalisation de l'existence des structures de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA dans le secteur
public par des actes administratifs, est une première étape dans le processus
d'appropriation et de pérennisation des actions dans ce secteur. Par cet acte, l'Etat
consacre des ressources humaines à la lutte contre le VIH dans les ministères et services
concernés. Cette institutionnalisation a permis aussi à certaines unités focales (MEPS,
MFE) de pouvoir obtenir des bureaux dans leur ministère et une ligne budgétaire (MEPS,
METFP, MMEH, MISD, MEHU) pour contribuer à la mise en oeuvre de leur plan
d'action.

L'un des effets importants ou changement que l'on peut signaler suite à la mise en oeuvre
du PPLS est celui relatif au cadre institutionnel. Aujourd'hui, dans l'environnement des
services du secteur public notamment dans les ministères et dans quelques institutions de
la République, les unités focales sont une réalité, elles ne passent pas inaperçues par les
activités qu'elles mènent. De même, l'appui au PNLS à travers l'acquisition de matériels
de bureau et d'équipements divers a permis de renforcer les capacités techniques de ce
programme du secteur santé.

Le projet a eu un impact certain sur l'environnement sanitaire (la formation des agents
de santé, les équipements, les médicaments et les test acquis sur le projet ont influencé
positivement l'environnement sanitaire. La formation des agents de santé a induit des
changements de comportement. Les zones sanitaires se sont fortement impliquées, elles
ont organisé pour la plupart des séances de dépistage. Le lien établi entre les
communautés et les centres de santé pour régler les problèmes de prise en charge a été
bénéfique à maints égards. Cette mise en lien des communautés a permis une légère
amélioration de la fréquentation des centres de santé.

3.3 - Composante C

Cette composante a pris en compte les besoins de l'AGF, de l'Unité de gestion, les audits
et le suivi et l'évaluation et une partie des besoins du SP/CNLS. De façon précise, il y a
eu au profit du SP/CNLS, l'acquisition de deux véhicules et d'une moto, de matériel de
bureau et d'ordinateurs. Le projet a contribué au financement du fonctionnement du
SP/CNLS, à la formation des membres du CNLS, l'évaluation du cadre stratégique et la
mise en place du système de suivi et évaluation. Pour ce qui concerne l'agence de gestion
financière (AGEFiB), le projet a recruté et mis à sa disposition le personnel d'appui, a
aménagé les bureaux et fourni du matériel informatique. Enfin, cette composante a pris
en compte les dépenses courantes de fonctionnement du projet.




                                              38

3.3.1 - Analyse évaluative de la composante C

En ce qui concerne la composante C, le PPLS a fait de l'appui institutionnel au
secrétariat permanent au lieu d'appuyer essentiellement les audits et les supervisions.
L'appui au SP/CNLS a été orienté vers les équipements, le matériel roulant et le matériel
de bureau. Ce qui a réduit la possibilité de financer les supervisions. Mais le problème est
réellement dû au fait qu'une composante ne soit pas consacrée spécialement à l'appui du
SP/CNLS et ses démembrements et que les ressources de cet appui étaient comprises
dans la composante la moins nantie ; ceci a limité sérieusement les possibilités de
financer davantage le CNLS.

4 ­ EVALUATION DES PERFORMANCES DU BENIN

4.1 ­ Le Gouvernement

La mise en oeuvre du projet a permis d'enregistrer l'implication des autorités politico
administratives et des autorités locales (le Ministre d'Etat, Premier vice président du
CNLS, les autres ministres, les autorités religieuses et traditionnelles, les chefs de culte
vodoun sont fortement impliqués dans les activités du PPLS). Le soutien et l'implication
du 1er vice président du CNLS est une réalité. Il a participé en personne à plusieurs
supervisions au niveau des départements où il a visité des communes et des villages au
sud, au centre et au nord du pays. En tout état de cause face aux nouveaux besoins et aux
contraintes de terrain, le gouvernement a été pro actif en adressant des requêtes pour la
modification de l'Accord de crédit.

Mais le point faible du Gouvernement est de n'avoir pas pu tenir entièrement ses
promesses par rapport à la mise en oeuvre du projet. Il y a eu des difficultés de
mobilisation de la contrepartie béninoise. Ce qui constitue des menaces qui pourraient
compromettre la pérennisation du projet. De ce fait, la contribution réelle du
gouvernement est très faible, elle n'a pu être que le tiers de ce qu'il avait prévu.
Toutefois, il a accepté de financer les unités focales de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA (UFLS)
qui ont pour la plupart prévu une ligne budgétaire pour la lutte contre le SIDA. La
majeure partie des UFLS ont réellement été financées.

4.2 ­ Le CNLS

Les activités du CNLS et de ses structures décentralisées témoignent d'une certaine
organisation opérationnelle. Il existe une cohérence entres les actions menées dans le
cadre de la mise en oeuvre du PPLS et les domaines du cadre stratégique national de lutte
contre les IST/VIH/SIDA. Vers la fin du projet, le CNLS est devenu plus opérationnel,
plus visible et plus dynamique avec la nomination du secrétaire permanent actuel. Avec
sa grande expertise de la problématique du VIH/SIDA et des problèmes de santé en
général, son ancienneté, son expérience professionnelle en matière de gestion et de
coordination, beaucoup de choses ont été faites ces derniers mois sous le leadership du
SP/CNLS malgré le problème criard d'insuffisance en ressources humaines et



                                             39

matérielles ; il s'agit surtout des activités suivantes : revue conjointe du premier cadre
stratégique national de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA/IST et élaboration du nouveau cadre
stratégique, 2006-2010, évaluation de la mise en oeuvre des « Three Ones » au Bénin,
rédaction du rapport UNGASS, 2005, consultation nationale sur l'accès universel à la
prévention, aux soins et au traitement, élaboration du plan d'accélération de la
prévention, mise en place du système national unique de suivi/évaluation et formation des
agents sur le CRIS et le manuel opérationnel etc. Le SP/NCLS a été un tant soi peu
renforcé le PALS/ de la BAD et le PASNALS du PNUD, deux projets localisés au
SP/CNLS et placés directement sous la coordination du SP/CNLS ; Le Secrétariat
Permanent a réussi à impliquer activement les autres intervenants de la lutte contre le
SIDA dans sa nouvelle dynamique.

Le CNLS a bénéficié de l'appui de l'ONUSIDA et de la Banque Mondiale à travers le
PPLS même si les problèmes de son leadership continuent de se poser du fait de
l'arrangement institutionnel actuel des projets de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA en général ;
cet arrangement institutionnel n'est pas favorable aux « Three Ones ». Il faut remarquer
que le taux du « turn over » est assez élevé. En quatre ans, trois Secrétaires Permanents
du CNLS se sont succédés.


Au niveau des départements, c'est le CDLS qui a le pouvoir d'approbation des sous-
projets d'OSC et d'assurer dans le même temps, un mandat de suivi des sous-projets et
plans d'actions. Mais, compte tenu du manque de moyens, les CDLS et les CCLS n'ont
pas pu jouer pleinement ce rôle. Tous les moyens du projet au niveau du département
ayant été mis à la disposition de l'AGF, les CDLS et les CCLS n'ont pas pu suivre les
activités du PPLS sur le terrain.
Grâce au PPLS, il y a eu :
        (i)     La révolutionnarisation des points focaux qui sont devenus des unités
                focales. En effet avec une unité focale de 9 membres contre un pont focal
                de 2 membres, le risque de perte de mémoire de l'institution par
                l'affectation (départ) de ses membres se trouve ainsi réduit.
        (ii)    Leur intitutionnalisation en tant que structure d'exécution du CNLS
        (iii)   L'appropriation de leurs rôles par le CNLS et ses structures décentralisées.
                Ceci participe de la pérennisation des actions de lutte contre le SIDA dans
                le pays.
Avec l'appui du PPLS et de l'ONUSIDA et du PNUD, la mise en place du système
national unique de suivi et évaluation est en cours.

4.3 - L'unité de gestion du projet

Dès le départ, le PPLS avait grande conscience qu'il s'agissait d'un projet qui avait un
cycle de vie et qu'il fallait prendre des mesures pour la pérennisation des actions en
prévision de l'achèvement du projet. C'est ce souci de pérennisation qui explique:

        (i)     Les plans d'action communautaires sont des plans triennaux, le fait de
                financer un même plan pendant 3 ans participe des mesures de



                                              40

                pérennisation. Le même village ou le même quartier de ville qui a exécuté
                pendant trois ans de façon consécutive les activités de son plan d'action de
                lutte contre le SIDA finira par se l'approprier.
        (ii)    L'approche communautaire telle que mise en oeuvre par le PPLS est elle-
                même une stratégie de pérennisation car contrairement aux interventions
                des OSC qui durent quelques mois et dont les animateurs sont le plus
                souvent d'une autre localité que de la localité où ils interviennent, les
                animateurs des plans d'actions communautaires de lutte contre le SIDA
                interviennent dans leur propre localité. Il existe une différence de degré et
                de qualité entre les effets des interventions des OSC et ceux des
                interventions des communautés.
        (iii)   Le processus même d'élaboration des plans d'action s'inscrit dans une
                dynamique de pérennisation, les PACLS ont une assise communautaire et
                appropriable par la communauté, le plan triennal permet l'ancrage de
                bonnes attitudes au niveau de la communauté.
        (iv)    L'approche de l'auto évaluation par les cartes
        (v)     Les agents communaux et communautaires de lutte contre le sida
        (vi)    Les caisses de solidarité sont des instruments de pérennisation.

Le logiciel de gestion financière et comptable est acquis et exploité en version mono site.
Ce qui oblige les comptables des départements à descendre pour saisir leurs opérations
par période et non en temps réel. Or ce logiciel peut être acquis et exploité en site
décentralisé. Cette situation entraîne un retard dans la mise à jour des comptes du projet
et oblige des ateliers d'harmonisation et de traitement afin de répondre aux exigences du
bailleur.

Par ailleurs, l'UGP n'a pas impliqué les démembrements du CNLS. Elle a même exécuté
des activités à la place des structures. L'UGP était séparée du SP/CNLS contrairement au
MAP dans les autres pays; ceci n'est pas favorable aux « Three Ones ».


5 ­ EVALUATION DES PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE

La Banque Mondiale a organisé de façon régulière des missions de supervision tous les 6
mois pendant la durée du projet et des visites mensuelles de terrain. Ces missions ont eu
une influence bénéfique sur les activités du projet. En effet, ces missions sont
sanctionnées par des recommandations qui visent l'amélioration de la mise en oeuvre du
projet. Ces missions ont permis de résoudre les différents problèmes posés par la
coordination du projet. Il y a eu la flexibilité de la Banque dans les différentes initiatives
de modification de l'accord de crédit. Toutefois, il a été noté vers la fin du projet, un
ralentissement dans les avis de non objection, justifié peut-être par la recherche d'une
parfaite adéquation entre la disponibilité financière et les engagements. Par ailleurs, la
notification formelle tardive par la Banque (10 jours de la date de clôture) de l'annulation
du marché controversé BIO RAD et FSE n'a pas été appréciée, bien que ceci ait été
annoncé bien auparavant.




                                              41

6 ­ LEÇONS APPRISES

        · Le partenariat : Le PPLS a mis un accent particulier sur le partenariat.
           Des structures nationales et internationales telles ONUSIDA, UNICEF -
           CRS ­ DIRECTION DES PECHES ­ FERCAB - PACOM- AGeFIB -
           FNUAP - ABPF - SIDA3 - APH - PAM - MSF - CEFA, etc. ont été
           impliquées et la Banque a organisé des missions conjointes. Il y a eu aussi
           le partage d'expériences avec quelques projets MAP de la sous région,
           notamment ceux du Ghana, du Cameroun, du Burkina, et du Sénégal.

        · L'originalité du montage institutionnel : Une agence de gestion
           financière pour gérer la partie A du projet est un exemple original en
           matière de mise en oeuvre du projet. Une structure performante spécialisée
           en matière de gestion financière avec des réseaux existants dans le pays
           pour servir de passerelle entre le projet et les communautés pour le
           convoyage des fonds aux communautés. La leçon ici est que ceci a permis
           de gagner beaucoup de temps, de sauver beaucoup de ressources et
           d'aboutir à des résultats efficaces et efficients.

        · L'amélioration du seuil de passation de marchés : L'amélioration du
           seuil de rentabilité a contribué à réduire les délais pour certains marchés
           qui exigeaient des procédures trop longues.

        · L'augmentation du montant du compte spécial A : Très tôt le niveau du
           compte spécial A a été doublé comme prévu, ce qui a facilité les dépenses.
           La bonne planification et la bonne trésorerie ont permis de tenir le pari
           dans les décaissements et l'élaboration des DRF jusqu'à la fin du projet.

        · Exécution des catégories de dépense à 100% : La modification de
           l'accord de crédit pour permettre la prise en charge des dépenses à 100%
           sur les différentes catégories budgétaires a également facilité la mise
           oeuvre du projet.

        · Documentation de l'expérience : L'expérience du PPLS a été
           documentée par la publication de 5 ouvrages, la production d'affiches, de
           spots et de téléfilms




                                         42

                                                           Les études réalisées

                                                               Type et
            Titre            Institution  Réalisateur Année    nature      Population cible            Objectif général        Techniques de

                                                               d'étude                                                          réalisation

Evaluation du Cadre         CNLS         Secrétariat  2006  Enquête et   Partenaires et          Evaluer la mise en oeuvre     Collecte de
Stratégique National de                  permanant          revue        intervenants dans la    du cadre pour la projection   données par
Lutte contre les IST/VIH                                    documentaire lutte contre le         de celui de 2006-2010         administration
2001-2005                                                                VIH/SIDA au Bénin                                     de
                                                                                                                               questionnaire
Manuel Opérationnel du      CNLS         Secrétariat  2006  Manuel       CNLS, Partenaires       Mettre en place un système    Etude
Système National de Suivi                permanant                       des secteurs public et  national de suivi et          documentaire,
et Evaluation                                                            privé et de la société  évaluation intégrant tous les entretien et
                                                                         civile, les structures  acteurs afin de leur          concertation
                                                                         de coordination et      permettre de contrôler et
                                                                         d'exécution, les        d'évaluer les progrès
                                                                         structures d'appui à    accomplis dans la riposte à
                                                                         la lutte contre le      la pandémie du VIH/SIDA
                                                                         VIH/SIDA/IST.           au Bénin
Evaluation Finale du PPLS   PPLS         Geca         2006  Enquête et   Partenaires et          Evaluer la mise en oeuvre
                                                            revue        intervenants dans la    du PPLS
                                                            documentaire lutte contre le
                                                                         VIH/SIDA au Bénin
Evaluation du "Three ones"  ONUSIDA      ONUSIDA      2005  Enquête      CNLS, programme et      Evaluer la performance de     Collecte de
                                                                         projets de lutte contre la mise en mise du            données par
                                                                         le VIH/SIDA             programme                     administration
                                                                                                                               de
                                                                                                                               questionnaire
Impact du Soutien           INIPSA       Philippe     2005  Enquête      Les centres de          Fournir au projet les         Collecte de
Institutionnel Intégré pour DANIDA       Bocquier,                       traitement, les         données de base nécessaires   données par
les Patients Sous           Ministère    Dial-IRD,                       patients.               à l'élaboration d'une         administration
Traitement Antiretroviral   Français     Kemal                                                   méthodologie appropriée       de
                            des Affaires Cherabi,                                                afin d'évaluer l'impact du    questionnaire
                            Etrangères   IMEA...                                                 soutien institutionnel dans
                                                                                                 le cadre d'une prise en
                                                                                                 charge globale des patients




                                                                    43

                                                                                         sous ARV dans les sites de
                                                                                         traitement de 4 pays
                                                                                         d'Afrique (Bénin, Burundi,
                                                                                         Mali, Sénégal) ou le Pam
                                                                                         fournit de l'aide alimentaire
Rapport de Surveillance de  PNLS,       PNLS      2005 Test et   Femmes enceintes,       Evaluer la situation          Prélèvement
l'Infection à VIH et de la  Coopération                enquête   malades tuberculeux,    épidémiologique de            des spécimen
Syphilis au Bénin. Année    Française,                           les travailleuses de    l'infection à VIH et de la    sanguins et
2004,                       UNDP                                 sexe.                   syphilis au Bénin au cours    interview
                                                                                         de l'année 2004.
Etude sur la Prise en       PPLS        BASP'96   2005 Enquête   PVVIH, personnel        Evaluer la prise en charge    Collecte de
Charge des PVVIH au                                              médical,                médicale des PVVIH au         données par
Bénin                                                            organisation de prise   Bénin de 2000 à 2004          administration
                                                                 en charge,                                            de
                                                                 responsable MSP,                                      questionnaire,
                                                                 PNLS, CNLS.                                           focus de
                                                                                                                       groupe,
Evaluation                  PPLS        CERTI     2005 Enquête   UGP, AGeFIB, COF,       Evaluer l'impact              Collecte de
Epidémiologique à Mi-                                            COS, CHD, UFLS,         épidémiologique à mi-         données par
Parcours du PPLS                                                 OSC, PNLS, les          parcours du PPLS              administration
                                                                 centres d'études                                      de
                                                                 ayant réalisé des                                     questionnaire
                                                                 études sur la situation
                                                                 épidémiologique du
                                                                 SIDA au Bénin
Audit Technique de la       PPLS        PPLS      2005 Audit     UGP, AGeFIB, OC,        Critiques des mécanismes et   Etudes
Composante A (Appui à la                                         OSC, OAL, CNLS,         stratégies de mise en oeuvre  documentaires
Réponse de la Société                                            CDLS, CCLS, CALS        du projet pour une            et entrevues
Civile)                                                                                  amélioration des prestations
                                                                                         de la composante.
Etude Sociologique à Mi-    PPLS        BeCG      2005 Enquête   OSC, OC, OAL,           Apprécier l'appropriation     Collecte de
Parcours sur les                                                 CA/CCLS,                du projet dans tous ces       données par
Bénéficiaires du PPLS                                            CA/CDLS, UFLS,          volets en présence des        administration
                                                                 UG/PPLS,                acteurs publics et privés.    de
                                                                 SP/CNLS, AGeFIB,                                      questionnaire
                                                                 UNICEF.




                                                              44

Enquête de Surveillance de  PNLS,       CEFORP      2005 Enquête   Les professionnels de   Aider à mettre en place un    Cartographie
Deuxième Génération de      PPLS,                                  sexe, les               système de suivi qui          et collecte de
VIH/SIDA/IST au Bénin       Coopération                            routiers/camionneurs,   permette d'obtenir des        données par
                            Française,                             les élèves et étudiants données sur les tendances     administration
                            CHA, PSI,                              non mariés de 15-24     socio comportementales des    de
                            USAID                                  ans, les adolescents    groupes ciblés et de fournir  questionnaire
                                                                   et les jeunes           par la même occasion des
                                                                   travailleurs non        indicateurs sur les succès
                                                                   mariés de 15-24 ans     des indicateurs combinés de
                                                                                           prévention mise en place
                                                                                           dans les sites choisis
La performance et les       PPLS-       Victor A.   2005 Mémoire   Les organisations       Analyser la performance et    Collecte de
Mécanismes de               CESAG       ECLOU                      communautaires, les     les mécanismes de             données par
Pérennisation du PPLS-                                             organisations d'appui   pérennisation du PPLS-        administration
Bénin                                                              au lancement,           Bénin                         de
                                                                   l'agence de gestion                                   questionnaire
                                                                   financière (AGeFIB)
Les Déterminants du Désir   PPLS-IRSP   Patrice     2005 Mémoire   Femmes âgées de 15      Etudier les déterminants du   collecte de
de Procréation chez les                 ZEKENG                     -49 ans ou des          désir de procréation chez les données par
Personnes Vivant avec le                                           hommes âgés de 15       personnes vivant avec le      entretien
VIH/SIDA Suivies au                                                ans et plus infectés    VIH/SIDA suivies au           individuel
CNHU de Cotonou et                                                 par le VIH, membres     CNHU de Cotonou.              approfondi
Membres de l'ONG Arc-                                              de l'ONG Arc-en-                                      sur la base
en-ciel                                                            ciel, reçus en                                        d'un guide
                                                                   consultation de suivi                                 d'entretien.
                                                                   au service des
                                                                   maladies du sang
                                                                   (SMAS) du CNHU
                                                                   de Cotonou et au
                                                                   centre médical de
                                                                   l'ONG Arc-en-ciel.
Première Enquête de         PNLS-       PNLS-SIDA 3 2004 Enquête   Les femmes qui se       Réaliser la première mesure   Collecte de
Surveillance de Deuxième    SIDA 3                                 reconnaissent TS et     pour la surveillance de       données par
Génération de                                                      qui, au moment de       seconde génération (SSG)      administration
VIH/SIDA/IST auprès des                                            l'étude, travaillent    de l'infection au             de
Travailleuses de Sexe et                                           dans les villes         VIH/SIDA/IST dans             questionnaire
leurs Clients au Bénin. Fin                                        mentionnées.            certaines villes du Bénin     et




                                                                45

2001-Début 2002                                                    Les clients des TS      (Porto-Novo,                 prélèvements
                                                                   recrutés dans les sites Abomey/Bohicon et            pour test au
                                                                   de prostitution de      Parakou principalement)      laboratoire
                                                                   villes concernées.      parmi les populations à haut
                                                                                           risque : les TS et leurs
                                                                                           clients.
Rapport de Surveillance de  PNLS      Dr KIKI-      2003 Test et   Femmes enceintes et     Analyser les données         Prélèvement
l'Infection à VIH et de la            FAGLA              enquête   consultants IST         épidémiologiques sur         des spécimen
Syphilis au Bénin                     Médégan                                              l'infection à VIH et la      sanguins et
                                                                                           syphilis ainsi que les cas   interview
                                                                                           notifiés de SIDA 2003
Enquête de surveillance des USAID,    CEFORP        2003 Enquête   Les professionnels de   Mettre en place un système   Cartographie
comportements à risque      FHI, PNLS                              sexe, les               de suivi des tendances des   et collecte de
d'infection à                                                      routiers/camionneurs,   comportements à risque afin  données par
VIH/SIDA/IST au Bénin                                              les adolescents et les  de fournir des               administration
2001                                                               jeunes non mariés de    renseignements nécessaires   de
                                                                   15-24 ans               à l'évaluation régulière des questionnaire
                                                                   (Ouvriers/artisans,     efforts combinés de
                                                                   élèves/étudiants,       prévention du
                                                                   filles de               VIH/SIDA/IST d'une part
                                                                   « restauration »        et fournir des données
                                                                                           standardisées comparables
                                                                                           au niveau international.
                                                                                           C'est aussi la base de la
                                                                                           mise en place d'un système
                                                                                           de surveillance de seconde
                                                                                           génération.
Prise de Décision au Sujet  PSI (USA) Anne Glick    2002 Enquête   Hommes et femmes        Analyse qualitative pour la  collecte de
des Rapports Sexuels,                 Kim Longfield                des zones urbaines et   prise de décision au sujet   données à
Comportement et Critère               CEFORP                       rurales                 des rapports sexuels,        travers des
dans la Sélection de                                               artisans/ouvriers,      comportement et critère      discussions de
Partenaire parmi les                                               agriculteurs/fermiers,  dans la sélection de         groupe.
Groupes Sélectionnés de la                                         élèves/étudiants.       partenaire parmi les groupes
Jeunesse Béninoise : une                                                                   sélectionnés de la jeunesse
Analyse Qualitative.                                                                       béninoise.




                                                                46

Etude Multicentrique sur    PNLS,       Pr. Séverin  1999 Enquête     Population générale    Décrire de façon              Collecte de
les Facteurs qui            INSAE,      ANAGONOU,                     et les prostitués.     standardisée dans différents  données par
Déterminent les Différences CERRHUD     Dr Martin                                            sites africains les           administration
de Niveaux de l'Infection à             LAOUROU,                                             distributions des facteurs de de
VIH en Afrique : Résultats              Mme Lydie                                            risque des populations qui    questionnaire
du Bénin                                KANHONOU                                             peuvent expliquer les         et examen
                                                                                             différences de niveaux de     clinique et
                                                                                             l'infection à VIH dans les    prélèvements
                                                                                             villes africaines ; suivi de
                                                                                             la collecte de sérums pour
                                                                                             évaluer la prévalence du
                                                                                             VIH dans un échantillon de
                                                                                             la population générale et
                                                                                             obtenir une distribution des
                                                                                             différentes souches virales.
Rapport de surveillance de  PNLS,       PNLS         2006 Test et     Femmes enceintes,      Evaluer la situation          Prélèvement
l'infection à VIH et de la  Coopération                   enquête     malades tuberculeux,   épidémiologique de            des spécimen
syphilis au Bénin. Année    Française,                                les travailleuses de   l'infection à VIH et de la    sanguins et
2005,                       UNDP                                      sexe.                  syphilis au Bénin au cours    interview
                                                                                             de l'année 2005.
Impact du SIDA au Bénin     PNLS,       PNLS         2006 Enquête et
                            Coopération                   projection
                            Française,
                            Aware
                            HIV/AIDS
Enquête de Surveillance des USAID,      CEFORP       2006 Test et     Les professionnels de  Mettre en place un système    Cartographie
Comportements à Risque      FHI, PNLS,                    Enquête     sexe, les              de suivi des tendances des    et collecte de
d'Infection à               Coopération                               routiers/camionneurs,  comportements à risque afin   données par
VIH/SIDA/IST au Bénin       Française,                                les adolescents et les de fournir des                administration
2005                        Projet                                    jeunes non mariés de   renseignements nécessaires    de
                            SIDA3,                                    15-24 ans              à l'évaluation régulière des  questionnaire
                            FM,                                       (Ouvriers/artisans,    efforts combinés de
                            JHPIEGO,                                  élèves/étudiants,      prévention du
                            Africare,                                 filles de              VIH/SIDA/IST d'une part
                            PPLS, PSI                                 « restauration »       et fournir des données
                                                                                             standardisées comparables
                                                                                             au niveau international.




                                                                  47

                                                                                       C'est aussi la base de la
                                                                                       mise en place d'un système
                                                                                       de surveillance de seconde
                                                                                       génération.
Suivi Biologique et         FM, PNLS, PNLS     2006 Test et      Les professionnels de Mettre en place un système   Cartographie
Comportemental des          Projet                  Enquête      sexe                  de suivi des tendances des   et collecte de
Travailleuses de Sexe au    SIDA3                                                      comportements à risque et    données par
Bénin                                                                                  des tendances sérologiques   administration
                                                                                                                    de
                                                                                                                    questionnaire
Revue interne du            PNLS      UNICEF   2002 Revue        Femmes enceintes      Evaluer l'étude pilote       Revue
programme PTME                        PNLS          documentaire                       PTME avant de passer         documentaire
                                                    et enquête                         l'approche à l'échelle       et enquête
Analyse des obstacles et    PNLS      UNICEF   2003 Enquête      Femmes enceintes      Définir les étapes critiques Revue
opportunités de la PTME en                                                             pour l'extension des         documentaire
milieu rural au Bénin : cas                                                            activités de PTME dans la    et enquête
de la zone sanitaire Pobè-                                                             zone sanitaire Pobè-Kétou-
Kétou-Adja ouéré                                                                       Adja ouéré

Analyse des Obstacles et    PNLS      UNICEF   2005 Enquête      Femmes enceintes      Définir les étapes critiques Revue
Opportunités à la PTME                                                                 pour l'extension des         documentaire
dans la zone sanitaire                                                                 activités de PTME dans la    et enquête
Djidja-Abomey-                                                                         zone sanitaire Djidja-
Agbangnizoun                                                                           Abomey-Agbangnizoun

Analyse des Obstacles et    PNLS      UNICEF   2006 Enquête      Femmes enceintes      Définir les étapes critiques Revue
Opportunités de la PTME                                                                pour l'extension des         documentaire
en Milieu Rural au Bénin :                                                             activités de PTME dans la    et enquête
Cas de la Zone Sanitaire                                                               zone sanitaire Bembereke-
Bembereke-Sinendé-Phase                                                                Sinendé ire
de Pré-intervention

PTME au Bénin : Une         PNLS      UNICEF   2005 Revue        Femmes enceintes      Faire connaître l'expérience Revue
Démarche Originale et                               documentaire                       de la PTME au Bénin          documentaire
Prometteuse ­ Etude de Cas




                                                            48

Contribution à                PNLS    UNICEF   2005 Etude         Enfants nés de mères  Démontrer la faisabilité et   Etude
l'Amélioration du Suivi des                         prospective   séropositives         l'efficacité de l'intégration prospective
Enfants Infectés par le VIH                                                             des activités de PTME dans    analytique et
dans le Cadre de la PTME                                                                les services de santé         descriptive
du VIH à Cotonou                                                                        maternelle et infantile et
                                                                                        évaluer le suivi des enfants
                                                                                        nés de mères séropositives
Enquête CAP des Jeunes en     UNICEF  UNICEF   2004 Enquête       Les jeunes de 10 à 24 Identifier les connaissances  Etude
Matière d'IST/VIH/SIDA                                            ans                   attitudes et pratiques des    prospective
dans la Zone Sanitaire                                                                  jeunes de 10 à 24 ans, des    qualitative et
Pobè-Kétou-Adja ouéré                                                                   parents et des prestataires   quantitative
                                                                                        de santé en matière
                                                                                        d'IST/VIH/SIDA
Enquête CAP des Jeunes en     UNICEF  UNICEF   2004 Enquête       Les jeunes de 10 à 24 Identifier les connaissances  Etude
Matière d'IST/VIH/SIDA                                            ans                   attitudes et pratiques des    prospective
dans la Zone Sanitaire                                                                  jeunes de 10 à 24 ans, des    qualitative et
Djidja-Abomey-                                                                          parents e des prestataires de quantitative
Agbangnizoun                                                                            santé en matière
                                                                                        d'IST/VIH/SIDA
Etude de la Stigmatisation,   UNICEF  UNICEF   2002 Personnes                           Inventorier les différentes
la Discrimination et le Déni                        infectées ou                        formes de stigmatisation, de
par Rapport aux Personnes                           affectées par                       discrimination et de déni
Infectées et Affectées par le                       VIH                                 reliées aux personnes
VIH au Sein de la Famille                                                               infectées ou affectées par le
et de la Communauté : Cas                                                               VIH/SIDA, analyser les
du Bénin                                                                                causes à l'origine de cette
                                                                                        situation




                                                            49

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and other Partners/Stakeholders

1.      There were no cofinanciers for the project, but many multilateral and bilateral
agencies have been involved in operations similar to those carried out here. Most of their
projects, however, had been completed by the time of the ICR mission.

2.      This Annex presents the views of UNAIDS, the leader of the external assistance
organizations, and of UNICEF, which have been actively promoting nutrition programs.
In addition, the ICR mission sought the views of representatives of the Canadian-
financed Sida 3 project, the UNDP-financed HIV/AIDS strategy development project,
and the USAID-financed integrated family-health project. The latter two were the only
HIV/AIDS-related projects that were active in the sector when the ICR mission visited
Benin (except for a project financed by the African Development Bank that had just
started, and was not active at the same time with PPLS). The mission also met with
stakeholders in the form of representatives of the Ministry of Economy and
Development, of the central organization of NGOs involved in HIV/AIDS work, of a
treatment and care center operated by a charitable/religious organization (CARITAS), of
a commune-level committee for fighting HIV/AIDS, and managers of a local radio
station. The stakeholders' views are summarized in Annex 6 and are incorporated in the
main text of this report.

3.      UNAIDS. The UNAIDS representative emphasized the importance of
implementing the `three ones' approach, namely that in Benin there must be a common
HIV/AIDS strategy (already prepared for the period 2006-2010), common leadership
(provided by CNLS and its Permanent Secretariat), and a uniform monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system (UNAIDS has financed the M&E software and consultant
support). She also reported that PPLS inspired other development partners by its many
innovations, especially the introduction of a multi-sectoral approach to fight the
HIV/AIDS pandemic. As for sustainability, she suggested that building up a national
coordination body (CNLS) and establishing decentralized units in Departments,
communes, arrondissements, and local communities has been important but that these
units still need to be strengthened, adequately financed, and better motivated than in the
past. As for the relationship with the World Bank, she said that UNAIDS had been fully
involved in PPLS activities and that she had regularly participated in the Bank's
supervision missions.

4.      UNICEF. UNICEF has actively promoted the prevention of mother-to-child
transmission (PMCT) of the virus, as well as the provision of special medication and
nutrition programs for infected or affected children, through collaboration with PPLS.
Although congratulating PPLS for its achievements, the UNICEF representatives were
dissatisfied with the amount of funds and attention set aside for the PMCT program. Not
only have the funds reserved by PPLS for this purpose been insufficient, the national
health sector in general is also grossly inadequate in this regard: at present only 11
percent of pregnant mothers have access to medical facilities and clinics that can do HIV
testing. Although only 2 percent of these tests are positive, many children are in danger
of getting the virus and their condition is likely to remain undetected and untreated. The
UNICEF representatives emphasized that follow-up projects must provide more funds for
testing expectant mothers, and that the number and capacity of laboratories to process

                                             50

samples must be increased substantially. UNICEF collaborates closely with the World
Bank and fully supports the `three ones' approach in Benin; UNICEF has helped prepare
the national HIV/AIDS strategy for 2006-2010. The representatives were very satisfied
with the World Bank endorsement of this process, while acknowledging that the
financing has largely come from other sources.

5.       CIDA and the Sida 3 project. The coordinator of the Canadian-financed Sida 3
project stressed that PPLS had been an important partner in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
Three successive Sida projects have been operating in Benin for 15 years, targeting
women and other vulnerable groups. The Sida 3 project concentrated on people who are
at highest risk of getting an HIV infection, such as prostitutes (of whom some 81 percent
are from neighboring countries) and truck drivers. Together with PPLS, the Sida 3 project
worked on the medical follow-up of infected people and on the training of women in
money-generating activities (to help them leave the sex trade). The coordinator believed
that PPLS had drawn on the experience of Sida 3 with vulnerable groups; like PPLS, Sida
3 for its part has used NGOs effectively in its own approach. She underscored the need
for continued information to keep people alert (sensibilisation), in which regard PPLS
has been very effective. She noted that new generations of young persons are constantly
reaching the age of sexual activity, and that many people who may be informed about
HIV/AIDS have not necessarily `internalized' the information to the extent that they have
changed their own sexual behavior. Although she was satisfied with the collaboration
between PPLS and Sida 3, she criticized the slowness of the World Bank's procedures
given the emergency situation in Benin; the late arrival of funds is causing a long gap
between the MAP 1 and MAP 2 projects.

6.       UNDP. Since 2004 UNDP has been actively supporting the development of a
strategic plan for 2006-2010 in Benin, as well as operating an experimental HIV/AIDS
project in one zone in the Northern Department where it has used the local response
approach generalized by PPLS. Collaboration with PPLS has been indirect, in that, there
have been no common contracts under which financing would have been shared; instead,
PPLS and UNDP negotiated a common effort, and each has separately financed its own
share. For example, UNDP and PPLS helped establish and provide continued assistance
to a national apex organization for local associations of PLWHA, as well as a special
program for educating national and departmental leaders on HIV/AIDS issues.

7.       USAID. The USAID-financed integrated family-health project has collaborated
with PPLS by using local NGOs and associations in HIV/AIDS prevention work. As one
of the major achievements of PPLS, the head of the family-health project mentioned the
success of prevention programs; he also acknowledged the difficulty of measuring the
actual outcomes of preventive work. He pointed out that proxies can be useful though,
and one measure of the success of PPLS's preventive work is the voluntary testing of the
target populations. In other words if people come into a testing center and agree to take a
test, it is apparent that they are responding to the HIV/AIDS messages, and the results in
this case have been remarkable: whereas the testing target in 2005 was 300 per quarter (in
his department?), the actual number of people coming in for tests exceeded 700 per
quarter. In 2006, the quarterly number increased to 1,000. Moreover, this development
also suggests that the stigmatization of HIV-infected people is declining, in that the fear
of HIV is now apparently higher than that of stigmatization.

                                             51

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank: Project Appraisal Document on Benin Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project.
December 10, 2001.

World Bank: Development Credit Agreement on Benin Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS
Project.

World Bank: Supervision Mission Aide-Mémoires 1 to 9. World Bank Files, 2002-2006.

World Bank: Implementation Status Reports 1 to 9. World Bank Files, 2002-2006.

World Bank: Mid-Term Report (Aide-Mémoire) on Benin Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS
Project. February 28, 2005.

République du Bénin, Ministère Chargé de la Planification et du Développement, CNLS
(par BeCG consultants) : Etude sociologique à mi-parcours sur les bénéficiaires du
PPLS. Cotonou, février 2005.

République du Bénin, Ministère Chargé de la Planification et du Développement, CNLS :
Audit technique de la composante A du PPLS. Cotonou, mai 2005.

République du Bénin, Ministère Chargé de la Planification et du Développement, CNLS :
Evaluation finale du PPLS. Septembre 2006.

République du Bénin, Ministère Chargé de la Planification et du Développement, par
Consultants GECA Prospective : Evaluation finale du PPLS. Septembre 2006.

République du Bénin, Ministère du Développement, de l'Economie et des Finances,
CNLS (par Epiphane Sohouenou, Facilitateur ) : Forum d'évaluation finale du PPLS :
Rapport général. Septembre 2006.

République du Bénin, Ministère Chargé de la Planification et du Développement, CNLS
(par consultants individuels) : Evaluation épidémiologique à mi-parcours du PPLS.
Juillet 2005.

République du Bénin, Ministère Chargé de la Planification et du Développement, PPLS
personnel : Tradithérapeutes et lutte contre le VIH/SIDA au Benin. Cotonou, août 2006.

République du Bénin, Ministère Chargé de la Planification et du Développement, PPLS
personnel : Contribution du PPLS à la prise en charge de PVV au Benin. Cotonou, août
2006.



                                            52

République du Bénin, Ministère Chargé de la Planification et du Développement, PPLS
personnel : Lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA : PVVIH--maillot incontournable de la
riposte. Cotonou, août 2006.

République du Bénin, Ministère Chargé de la Planification et du Développement, PPLS
personnel: Lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA : Expérience du PPLS en mileu du travail
(Secteur public et privé). Cotonou, août 2006.




                                           53

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33372

0                                1E                                                           2E                                                                                 3E                                              4E
                                                                                                                                                                                             To                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                           Dosso                    Sokoto

                                                                                                                                                                             NIGER
                                                                                                                                                                             NIGER RIVER   NIGER
                                                                                                                                                                                    RIVER

                                                            BURKINA                                                                                                                                                                                         12N

                      BENIN                                   FASO                                                             MékrouMékrou                                              Malanville
                                                                                                                                                                                         Malanville




                                                               Pendjari

                                                                                                                                                         AliboriAlibori
                                                                                                                     s
                                                                                                          a i n

                To                                                                            n    t                                                           KandiKandi
              Dapaong
  11N                                                         PanjariPanjari            o u                                                                                                  SotaSota
                                                                                 M                                                                                                                                                                          11N

                                                                                              MékrouMékrou                                             A L I B O R I


                                                        a
                                          k or
                                                        ATA K O R A
                                      ta
                                   A                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lake
                                    NatitingouNatitingou                                                                                                                                                                                                   KainjiKainji

                                                                                                                               Bembéréké
                                                                                                                               Bembéréké                                    Tassiné
                                                                                                                                                                              ssiné
                        Koumongou
10N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10N



                                                                DjougouDjougou
                                                                                                              OuéméOuémé                             B O R G O U                                                       NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                             To

                                   To
                                  Kabou                                                                        AlpouroAlpouro                                 OkparaOkpara                                 Kaiama


                                                           D O N G A                                                          ParakouParakou




9N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9N

                          TOGO

                                                                                                                                                                                                      0   20       40       60       80         100 Kilometers



                                                                                                                                                                                                      0        20             40              60 Miles
   GHANA
                                                                                         C O L L I N E S
                                                                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
8N                                                                                             SavalouSavalou                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information     8N
                                                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                        ZouZou                 Dassa-
                                                                                                               Dassa-                                                                                                             1E
                                                                                                               Zoumé
                                                                                                               Zoumé
                                                                                                                               Ouémé
                                                                            Couf
                                                                            Couffo                                                PLATEAUPLATEAU                                                                      BENIN
                                                                                            Z O U
                                                                                       AbomeyAbomey            Cové
                                                                                                               Cové
                                                         COUFFOCOUFFO                                                                                                                                                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                          Bohicon
                                                                                                          Bohicon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
7N                                                                                                                                                    PobéPobé                         7N
                                        To                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                       Notsé                                Aplahoué
                                                                            Aplahoué
                                                                                DogboDogbo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RIVERS
  LakeLake                                                                                                                                 OUEMEOUEM
  Vo ta
  Vol                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                               M O N O                                                                              E    SakétéSakété
                                                                                                                                                                                Ibadan                               MAIN ROADS
                                                                              LokossaLokossa  ATLANTIQUE
                                                                                                   TLANTIQUE                                                                                                         RAILROADS
                                                                               MonoMono                                                                 PORTO NOVO
                                                                                                                                                        PORTO NOVO                                                   DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES

                                                           To
                                                          Lomé                                            OuidahOuidah CotonouCotonou                  LITTORALLITTORAL                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                          BIGHT OF BENIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                          BIGHT OF BENIN
0                                1E                                                           2E          Gulf of Guinea                                                         3E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DECEMBER 2005

