Docujment of
FILE Copr                   The World Bank
FOR OFCICIAL USE ONLY
N   D >  RESReprt NoY-1922a-YAR
JCQ~  RTURV~D   REP'ORTS DESK
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPIMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR THE
SANA 'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
December 7, 1976
This docewot bus a resiieted dlurbation sd way be used by cipgleuts *aly i; the perfolmaace of
their oficial dudes. Its contets may not itherwise be discloed without World ihk uthorIation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1/
US$1                 -             YR 4.50
YR 1                               US$0.22
YR 1,000                           US$222
YR 1,000,000         =             US$222,222
FISCAL YEAR
JULY 1 to JUNE 30
ABBREVIATIONS
YAR         = Yemen Arab Republic
MPWM        = Ministry of Public Works and Municipalities
NWSA        = National Water and Sewerage Authority
USAID       = United States Agency for International Development
UNDP        = United Nations Development Programme
UNICEP      = United Nations Children's Fund
WHO         = World Health Organization
1/ No par value for the Yemen Rial has yet been declared to the IMF.
All exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate
which has been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR THE SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed de-
velopment credit of US$10.0 million, equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to
the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), to help finance a project comprising an ex-
tension of the water supply scheme now being built under the first Sana'a
Water Supply Project (IDA Credit 464-YAR of March 4, 1974), and the construc-
tion of a first phase of a sewerage system designed to meet 50 percent of the
city population's needs. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development is
expected to finance the water supply component (US$17.1 million). In addition
the YAR Government is exploring with the Saudi Government and other sources
the possibility of their participating in financing part of the sewerage com-
ponent (US$14.5 million) under parallel financing arrangements. Out of the
proceeds of the credit, US$5.4 million would be on-lent to the National Water
and Sewerage Authority (NWSA) at 8.7 percent interest repayable over 20 years
including 5 years grace, US$4.2 million would be contributed by the Government
to NWSA in the form of equity capital, and the balance of US$e.4 million would
be retained by the Government to cover the foreign exchange costs of technical
assistance to the local construction industry.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the
Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 840a-YAR), dated January 9, 1976, and based on the
findings of an economic mission which visited the Yemen Arab Republic in
September 1974 and an updating mission in October/November 1975, was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on January 20, 1976. Another updating
mission visited YAR in August 1976 and its findings are reflected in this
section. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.        The YAR is among the least-developed countries in the world with a
per capita income in 1975 of about $210 1/ per annum. This underdevelopment
has its roots in three major factors:   (a) the country's long isolation from
1/   Preliminary estimate.
This document has a stricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmous
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authoiadon.



- 2 -
the rest of the world, which ended with the revolution against the traditional
regime of the Imams in 1962, but in fact was not fully overcome until the end
of the subsequent civil war (1962-70), (b) the paucity of natural resources,
and (c) the critical shortage of educational facilities and of modern tech-
nical and administrative skills.
4.        The Government has successfully introduced basic elements of modern
administration in recent years and has sought to alleviate the problems asso-
ciated with a meagre resource base by adopting liberal emigration policies
towards Yemenis seeking employment abroad and welcoming the inflow of foreign
assistance. This policy has paid increasing dividends, and workers' remit-
tances and foreign aid and grants (mainly from Saudi Arabia) have increased
substantially, particularly over the last two years. Limitations on YAR's
absorptive capacity are consequently becoming the main constraint to the
rapid acceleration of development expenditures. The Government is making
substantial efforts to step up its development outlays, while at the same
time building up appropriate institutional structures and training people
in necessary skills. Pressure on available skills is consequently high,
and middle level skills as well as specialized skills have to be imported
from abroad.
Economic Structure, Development Objectives and Constraints
5.        YAR's economic structure, although changing, still reflects its
state of extreme underdevelopment. Over 80 percent of its estimated popula-
tion of 6.5 million (1975) is engaged in agriculture, largely in subsistence
production. Internal transport and communications, though expanding, still
leave many parts of the country isolated from each other. While the main
road system has been rapidly developed and the education system is expanding,
the economic and social infrastructure remains largely underdeveloped. The
literacy rate of YAR's population barely exceeds 15 percent and modern admin-
istration systems are still in their infancy and face an acute shortage of
qualified and experienced manpower. Political integration has been hindered
by tribal differences. The end of the civil war left the tribal sheikhs in
a stronger and more independent position than before. This fragmentation
of power, combined with the inadequacy of institutions and lack of trained
cadres at the Central Government level, hindered the Government's ability
to formulate national economic objectives and carry out a working program
of economic development. However, Central Government control has gradually
spread in recent years and continues to do so, and the building up of an
administrative and security framework is among the Government's highest
priorities.
6.        Despite these constraints, considerable progress has been made in
setting up national economic institutions and introducing development plan-
ning. With significant technical assistance provided by the IMF, the Bank and
the Kuwait Fund, YAR established a Central Bank in 1971, a Central Budget and
a Central Planning Organization in 1972. Formal budgets were introduced in
1973/74, a Three-Year Development Program, covering the period 1973/74-1975/76



-3-
was implemented, and a Five-Year Development Plan covering the period 1976/77
through 1980/81 is currently under preparation. In addition, ministerial
committees for participating in planning efforts have been established.
7.        Under both these programs, the long-term goals for economic develop-
ment mainly emphasize: (a) the development of agriculture to achieve self-
sufficiency in food; (b) the expansion of the transport and communications
infrastructure to improve economic and social integration; (c) a moderate
industrialization program; (d) education and manpower development to secure
the skills needed for YAR's future development efforts; and (e) government
institution building at the national as well as at local levels. The Three-
Year Development Program, which was confined to public sector development,
envisaged total spending of YR 936 million (approximately $208 million).
About 31 percent of these envisaged expenditures had been allocated to trans-
port and communications, 21 percent to education and manpower development,
15 percent to agriculture, and about 10 percent each to industry (including
mining), water supply and sewerage, and health and other services. Annual
outlay of the Five-Year Plan, presently under preparation, though not yet
determined, is expected to be substantially higher than the previous
development program.
8.        The time pattern of expenditures under the Three-Year Development
Program was expected to be $57 million in 1973/74, $76 million in 1974/75
and $75 million in 1975/76. Direct foreign contributions were expected to
account for 75 percent of total program outlays. Recent available data
indicate, however, that actual expenditure during the first two years,
amounted to $35 million (61 percent of planned targets) and $69 million
(90 percent of planned targets), respectively; of this reduced total, the
Government's contribution was 15 percent against the 25 percent which was
originally planned. The shortfall is to a large extent attributable to
institutional and manpower constraints. The experience with regard to
executing public development projects has shown that projects involving a
great deal of preparation with institution-building and training elements
faced greater problems than those confined to physical work or the provi-
sion of foreign experts.
9.        The planning exercise now underway (the Five-Year Development Plan
of 1976/77 - 1980/81) will provide the authorities with an appropriate oppor-
tunity to assess the resources (domestic and foreign) likely to be available
to the YAR for development. Appropriate criteria for project selection are
expected to be framed in order to bring the number and type of projects better
in line with YAR's potential in institution-building and manpower development.
In addition, it is expected that in conjunction with the inflows of foreign
assistance, YAR will increase its own financial participation in development
efforts by investing directly in development projects and through the rapidly
increasing recurrent expenditures associated with the investment program.
10.       A dilemma facing YAR's planners relates to emigration of Yemenis
abroad. Workers' remittances finance to a very large extent the foreign



-4-
trade deficit. On the other hand, such emigration of workers possessing even
marginal skills tend to reduce the country's absorptive capacity. A viable
solution at present may require accelerating the supply of the needed manpower
through rapid development of training institutions.
11.       A basic constraint on development (besides the presently limited
absorptive capacity) is the country's narrow resource base. In agriculture,
which accounts for about two-thirds of GDP and for virtually all of the
meagre exports (notably cotton, coffee, and hides and skins), development
is seriQusly constrained by physical limitations, particularly the erratic
nature of rainfall, the rugged mountainous terrain and the uncertainty of
groundwater supplies. Food grains (sorghum, millet, maize, barley and
wheat) for local consumption are the principal crops; only modest quantities
of cash crops, mainly cotton, qat and coffee are produced. 1/ The agricul-
ture sector is predominantly devoted to rainfed grain production, and mainly
as a result of the prolonged drought of 1966-72, has been meeting a decreas-
ing share of domestic needs. Thus, food imports, in part provided through
emergency relief operations have grown rapidly from about $18 million in
1971/72 to almost $93 million in 1974/75, constituting slightly more than
two-fifths of total recorded imports. Abundant rainfall during the 1974/75
and 1975/76 crop seasons resulted in the harvesting of exceptionally large
crops. Nevertheless, self-sufficiency in agriculture production remains
a distant goal.
12.       YAR has little mineral resources of known commercial value.    Only
rock salt has been exploited so far. Unlike most countries of the Arabian
Peninsula, YAR has no known oil resources, but exploration is currently
underway. Due largely to the scarcity of natural resources, and the small
domestic market, industry was virtually non-existent until the late 1960's.
Since then a small number of medium-sized, import substitution plants have
been established, mostly with bilateral assistance. They include a textile
cmill, a cement factory, a cigarette factory and other plants producing light
consumer manufactures and construction materials. Their overall production,
however, still represents only about 3 percent of GDP. Future industrial
growth will probably remain limited to some import substitution and the
processing of agricultural products unless other mineral resources in com-
mercial quantities are discovered.
Recent Developments
13.       YAR's economy remains heavily based on subsistence agriculture.
But gradual transformation of the economic structure is underway because
of rapid growth in commerce (particularly trading and banking), government
1/   Qat is a mildly narcotic leaf, chewed by a considerable portion of
the adult population. It is produced in relatively large quantities.



services, transport, manufacturing and construction. GDP at constant
prices is estimated to have grown at about 4 percent a year during 1970-73,
and 7 to 8 percent during 1974/75 and 1975/76. The recent acceleration in
growth is due to the upsurge in economic activity resulting from a substan-
tial inflow of capital and workers' remittances, as well as a large increase
in agricultural production. Remittances from workers abroad (largely in
Saudi Arabia) and cash grants from the Saudi Government, in fact, have be-
come by far the largest sources of foreign exchange. They have enabled the
YAR to sustain large deficits in its balance of trade, and their rapid in-
crease led to a substantial addition to reserves in 1974/75 and 1975/76 (see
paragraphs 14 and 15). Direct budgetary support finances the government cur-
rent deficit and the bulk of development outlays (see paragraphs 16-18).
14.       YAR's balance of trade has shown high and widening deficits in re-
cent years. This has resulted directly from YAR's increased needs for essen-
tial commodities (particularly oil and foodstuffs) which had to be imported
at a time of sharply rising prices, and the limited nature of its exports
(comprising mainly cotton, coffee and hides and skins). Exports, which amount
to only 5-7 percent of imports, have grown moderately in recent years (largely
as a result of improved cotton prices) and amounted to about $13 million in
1974/75. However, imports increased to about $259 million in 1974/75, re-
sulting in a trade deficit of $246 million, compared with $180 million in
1973/74. The trade deficit in 1974/75 was financed (as in previous years)
in large part through workers' remittances ($191 million). Commodity and
cash grants received (almost entirely from Saudi Arabia) amounted to $93
million in 1974/ 75, and together with net medium and long-term capital in-
flows of $33 million in the same period led to an increase in foreign assets
by $109 million.
15.       YAR had previously been experiencing small but regular surpluses in
its balance of payments which had led to small increases in its foreign ex-
change holdings. The exceptionally large surplus experienced in 1974/75 and
which continued in 1975/76, resulted in an increase in the foreign exchange
reserves of the Central Bank to about $414 million by March 31, 1976. Of
this amount, $366 million represented free reserves, the balance being mainly
blocked accounts with the Central Bank of Egypt. The free reserves are
equivalent to about 12 months of merchandise imports at the approximated
1975/76 level (import data are only available for the first half of 1975/76).
16.       YAR's budgetary situation is characterized by persistent deficits
on the current account, because of the small tax base. YAR'S aggregate tax
effort remains weak, and the tax/GDP ratio (about 6 percent) is low. However,
budgetary performance has been slowly improving as indicated by the higher
growth rate of government current revenues compared with current expenditures
over the last five years, except in 1974/75. Current revenues increased from
about $30 million in 1971/72 to about $84 million in 1974/75, i.e., at an an-
nual rate of 41 percent (substantially higher than the growth of GDP), while
current expenditures increased by about 27 percent per annum over the same
period (to about $102 million in 1974/75). Almost two-thirds of the absolute



-6-
increase in revenues was accounted for by higher customs receipts from in-
creased imports (which now provide almost 60 percent of total Government
revenues). The increase in current spending resulted largely from higher out-
lays on defense and security which in 1974/75 claimed 56 percent of total
current expenditure; and from salary increases for the very low-paid Govern-
ment civil servants in mid-1974. Expenditures for security (including cash
grants to tribes) were considered necessary, given the socio-political situa-
tion and the need to strengthen the central authority. Salary increases were
necessitated by the need to build up and retain qualified Government ad-
ministrative staff since wage increases in the private sector have generally
exceeded those in the public sector (it is estimated that the average wage
in the private sector increased by about 50 percent during 1973/74 and by
about 60 percent during 1974/75). During 1975/76, the Government continued
to restrain current expenditures. However, another salary increase was
granted in July 1976 largely for low paid government employees to compensate
for deterioration in real income caused by inflation. Nevertheless, in view
of the sharp rise in revenue resulting from better tax collection and the
higher import volume, the current deficit in 1976/77 is expected to be the
lowest so far (see Annex I).
17.       The deficits, together with a large part of government development
expenditures, are expected to be financed, as in the past years, through
direct budgetary support from Saudi Arabia. The Government has also changed
from being a substantial net borrower in 1973/74 to a substantial net creditor
to the banking system (see Annex I). With the improved budgetary situation
the Government has been recently budgeting increased Government support (both
for technical services and project financing) for projects programmed through
the Central Planning Organization (CPO). The Ministry of Finance is also
making direct allocations to economic ministries for some development expendi-
tures including small projects which the ministries can implement on their
own.
18.       The rapid increase in the Government's domestic and foreign assets
reflects some Government restraint in increasing current expenditures. It
also reflects however, limitations in YAR's absorptive capacity as indicated
by shortfalls in the Government's planned development outlays.
Capital Flows and External Debt
19.       Prior to 1970, the major aid donors were mainly:   the USSR, the
People's Republic of China, Egypt and the German Democratic Republic. These
have now been replaced in importance by Arab states and their development
funds, and by the United Nations, IDA, the Federal Republic of Germany, the
United States, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. Foreign assistance
received by the YAR is currently on highly concessional terms (largely due to
the cash grants from Saudi Arabia). However, continued dependence on foreign
aid has had a strong impact on YAR's existing external debt position and debt
service obligations. The external public debt outstanding on March 31, 1976
was estimated at about $477.0 million, of which $206.0 million was undisbursed.
The major creditors were: USSR, the People's Republic of China, IDA, the



-7-
Federal Republic of Germany, the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund. Debt con-
tracted with IDA as of March 31, 1976, accounted for $75.6 million or about
16 percent of the total reported debt. Three more credits totalling $18.2
million were approved after that date.
20.       About half of YAR's total debt outstanding constitutes interest free
loans mainly provided by the People's Republic of China and the USSR. About
35 percent have been received at service charges and interest rates ranging
from 0.5 to 2.5 percent. These are mainly supplied by IDA, the Federal
Republic of Germany, Kuwait and the Kuwait Fund. The remaining 15 percent
have been provided at interest rates reaching up to 6 percent. The debt
service for 1975/76 was estimated at $2.8 million, equivalent to about 22
percent of total merchandise exports but only to about 1.2 percent of total
exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances at the 1974/75
level. Since YAR is one of the least developed countries in the world, with
grossly inadequate commodity exports, and with potentially unstable workers'
remittances, it will have to continue to seek external loans on concessionary
terms for some time to come.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.       The proposed credit would be the twelfth to YAR, bringing total
IDA commitments to US$103.8 million. Apart from the $5.2 million Credit
for the grain storage project approved in June 1976, and the $5.0 million
Credit for the livestock project approved in October, 1976, about 29 percent
of all credits have been disbursed and about 55 percent are committed under
contracts. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and Bank
grants and notes on the execution of on-going projects, as of October 31,
1976.
22.       The major focus of Bank Group activity has been to develop the
essential prerequisites for development: the basic institutions, skills
and physical infrastructure, and to begin lending in the dominant productive
sector--agriculture. In 1971, the Bank made a grant of US$200,000 to help
finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team
of planning and economic advisors; in September 1973 a second Bank grant of
US$200,000 to make possible the continuation and expansion of the planning
team services, was approved. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant
of US$120,000 to provide for the continuation of the services of a planning
team including those of a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait
Fund joined with a grant of about US$425,000. The Bank is also providing
technical assistance for institution building to the Ministry of Agriculture
through the services of seven advisors, financed by UNDP with the Bank as
Executing Agency.



- 8 -
23.       To assist in building up the essential physical infrastructure and
related institutions, IDA has extended two Credits for highways, one in 1972
for $7.7 million and one in 1975 for $9.0 million, which also helped to create
and support a National Highway Authority. IDA also extended a Credit for
Water Supply in Sana'a in 1974 for $6.3 million, and a Credit for Water and
Sewerage in Hodeida in 1975 for $8.1 million, both of which helped to support
the National Water and Sewerage Authority; in the latter project, the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development contributed $21 million to finance
the sewerage component. To assist in the development of Education, IDA has
extended two Credits, the first in 1973 for $11 million, which together with
aid from UNDP, Germany and the United Arab Emirates, finances expansion of
teacher training and secondary and vocational education; and the second for
$8 million in 1976 which is a follow-up to the first project. To develop
infrastructure and production in YAR's major sector, agriculture and agro-
industries, IDA has made four Credits. The first Credit of $10.9 million
in 1973 was for the Tihama Agricultural Development Project, to which the
Kuwait Fund contributed $6.4 million; to meet major cost increases, the Kuwait
Fund approved in 1975 a loan of $9.6 million to the project, and IDA also ap-
proved a Supplementary Credit of $10.3 million in March 1976. The second
Agricultural Credit of $10.0 million was made for the Southern Uplands Rural
Development Project in 1975 in which the Abu Dhabi Fund participated with $10
million. The third Credit of $5.2 million for a Grain Storage and Processing
Project was approved in June 1976. The Saudi Fund for Development joined
with a loan of $11.0 million under parallel financing arrangements. A fourth
Credit of $5.0 million for a livestock credit and processing project was also
approved in October, 1976. The Kuwait Fund (US$11.6 million), the Netherlands
(US$7.5 million) and the United Kingdom (US$2.4 million) will participate in
the financing of the project under parallel financing arrangements. A $2.3
million Credit for an Industrial Estate Project was approved in 1974. The
project is designed to stimulate investment in small-scale industry and
provide a model for future industrial development.
24.       Future Bank Group activity will concentrate on reinforcing the in-
stitutional progress made in the essential sectors of transportation, agricul-
ture and public utilities and help provide the necessary manpower training;
and continue to help devise an appropriate development strategy and investment
program. Particular attention in preparing future projects will continue to
be given to the country's ability to implement these projects and to ensuring
the availability of key staff and other means needed for successful implemen-
tation. A Port Development project was appraised in October, 1976 and a
textiles project, an agricultural project, a third highway project and a power
project are in the preparation stage. The Bank Group's lending strategy
recognizes that YAR is among the poorest of the 29 least-developed countries
and thus requires special assistance, which justifies IDA financing of a large
part of project costs, including local expenditures. Since project costs are
in excess of the limited IDA funds available, efforts have been made to obtain
co-financing from other donors. In addition to its own commitments of US$93.8
million, IDA has also, since 1973, successfully played a catalytic role
through its projects in securing about $102.0 million of co-financing from
other aid donors (Arab Fund $21.0 million; Kuwait Fund $33.5 million; Abu



-9-
Dhabi Fund $11.0 million; United Arab Emirates $8.0 million; Saudi Fund for
Development $11.0 million; UNDP $6.60 million; the Federal Republic of
Germany $0.58 million; the United Kingdom $2.4 million and the Netherlands
$7.5 million).  YAR's level of poverty and the weak structure of its balance
of payments have in the past justified a large portion of local currency
financing by the Association; however, YAR has contributed an increasing
portion of local currency financing and is expected to continue to finance
a rising portion of its development expenditures in the future.
PART III. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
25.       YAR relies mainly on rainfall and groundwater for its water supply
as there are no permanent sources of surface water. Some of the old river
beds have heavy flows during the summer rains, but none contains running
water throughout the year. In the urban centers, where only about 6% of the
population live, some piped water supply is provided by local cooperatives and
private enterprises. The villages and rural areas are supplied with water
primarily from hand-dug wells. In most areas the groundwater *is moderately
mineralized.
26.       The existing water supply facilities are inadequate.   Water short-
ages are widespread and most wells, particularly the hand-dug ones are con-
taminated. Continual lowering of the water table, due to limited recharge
and increasing extraction for both agricultural and domestic uses, is being
experienced in many regions particularly in the Sana'a area.
Sewerage
27.       There are no municipal sewerage systems yet in operation in YAR.
Very few institutions and housing developments in Sana'a have wastewater
facilities. A sewerage system for Hodeida which is being implemented under
the Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project financed by IDA and the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development is scheduled for completion by the
end of 1979.
Sector Program and Constraints
28.       The main problem that the Government faces in trying to accelerate
development in the sector is the paucity of trained engineers and technicians
to prepare sound projects and to build and operate the ongoing works. Because
of this problem it was logical to select as first priorities, urban projects
where the greatest impact could be made with the limited human resources avail-
able. Feasibility studies for water supply and sewerage in the three main
urban centers (Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz) indicate that investments needed for
these centers may reach US$99.0 million in current prices by 1981. The Gov-
ernment is giving top priority to the proposed Sana'a project because of the
present critical water shortage and the inadequacy of sanitary facilities



- 10 -
in the capital city where the concentration of population makes it particu-
larly vulnerable to outbreaks of epidemic diseases. A series of feasibility
studies are planned to be carried out for water supply and sanitation in the
fifteen largest remaining cities. IDA has been requested to finance the
studies for two of these, Ibb and Dhamar. It is estimated that the cost of
providing water supply and sanitation to these fifteen cities will be at least
US$50.0 million.
29.       A rural water development program undertaken by the Ministry of
Public Works is well underway with assistance from WHO as the executing
agency for UNDP, UNICEF and other aid donors, e.g. the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID), Abu Dhabi, Saudi Arabia, Federal
Republic of Germany, the Netherlands and IDA (see paragraph 35). Total
aid for rural water programs to date approaches US$20.0 million, including
volunteer technical assistance. It is estimated that in current prices,
US$550.0 million will be needed to complete the rural water supply program,
of which about one-half would be required in foreign exchange.
30.       Because of severe Government budget constraints, any substantial
improvement of the sector will depend largely on the financial and technical
support given by external agencies. Until now financing has been available
for all projects which the Government has been able to prepare with its
limited technical resources. Once this limitation is removed, more projects
will be prepared and the need for external financial support will grow.
Sector Organization
31.       The Ministry of Public Works and Municipalities is responsible for
planning and executing all Government projects in the sector. It has two main
departments dealing with water supply - Municipal and Rural Affairs, and Rural
Water Supply. The latter was established in 1972 to coordinate external assis-
tance for rural projects. Under a current UNDP project 1/, measures are being
implemented to reorganize and strengthen this department through technical
assistance and training.
32.       With the Association's assistance, the Government in November 1973
established the National Water and Sewerage Authority (NWSA), to be respon-
sible for planning, executing and operating those water supply and sewerage
facilities in urban centers which have been specifically delegated to it by
the Government. The legislation creating NWSA also stipulates that it will
take over any system for which long-term borrowing is foreseen. Thus far, it
has become responsible for the Sana'a and Hodeida systems. NWSA is presently
poorly staffed, while its operations are projected to grow fast (see paragraphs
53-55). Because of this, it is expected that its staff will be overloaded
with work. Therefore, it would be prudent that additional transfers of water
supply or sewerage systems to NWSA be made only as adequate organization and
staff become available (Section 3.04, draft Project Agreement).
1/   Project No. YEM/73/017 of May 1975.



- 11 -
33.       NWSA is an independent Government entity which enjoys financial
autonomy. It is managed by a Board of seven members consisting of the Min-
ister of Public Works and Municipalities as Chairman, the Deputy Minister of
Public Works as Vice-Chairman, the Deputy Minister of Treasury, the Director
General of NWSA, the head of Municipal Affairs, and two representatives of
the private sector. The Board is responsible to the Government Council of
Ministers whose approval is required for establishing or changing water and
sewerage rates, and other charges such as connection fees. Borrowings by NWSA
from sources other than Government must be approved by the Council of Ministers
and the Consultative Assembly. The Director General assures the day-to-day
activities and is responsible to the Board for NWSA's performance.
Previous IDA Lending in the Sector
34.       IDA lending to YAR for the sector commenced in 1974 when a Credit
(464-YAR) of US$6.25 million was made to help the Government finance the
first public water supply system for Sana'a. The execution of this project
was originally delayed by the consultants' slow progress in preparing the
final design and tender documents. Most of the civil works contracts have
now been placed and delivery of materials has been completed. However, the
performance of the local contractor carrying out the construction of reser-
voirs and pumping stations and the installation of pipes, has been poor, and
execution is behind schedule by about six months. To remedy this situation,
NWSA succeeded in October in getting this contractor to enter, at his own
expense, into a management contract with an experienced British contracting
firm (Lilley, International). This arrangement is expected to improve the
execution of civil works under the ongoing project. Satisfactory arrangements
to improve this situation were completed before negotiations were begun on the
proposed credit.
35.       In May 1975 IDA approved a Credit of US$10 million (545-YAR) for
the Southern Uplands and Rural Development Project. Of this credit, US$1.8
million was allocated to help in the financing of village water supply schemes.
In June 1975, an IDA credit of US$8.1 million (559-YAR) was approved to
finance partly the water supply component of the Hodeida Water Supply and
Sewerage Project. Financing of the sewerage component is being provided by
a loan of US$20.2 million from the Arab-Fund for Economic and Social Develop-
ment. Good progress is being accomplished under the Hodeida project.
36.       Through its lending to the sector, IDA has assisted in the creation
of NWSA and is currently helping in strengthening this authority so that it
may become a competent and financially viable institution for the administra-
tion of water supply and sewerage in YAR (see paragraphs 54 and 55). Sub-
stantial technical assistance and short term training have been provided under
the existing credits. A long term training program of Yemeni staff to be
financed by USAID will be carried out in parallel to the proposed project.
Objectives of the Project
37.       The proposed project would help the Government achieve its priority
objective of making maximum impact with limited human resources by concentrating



- 12 -
initial investments where there is a concentration of population, and of
correcting an intolerable situation in Sana'a whose population has been
supplied with water from contaminated wells, and has been deprived of the
minimum sewerage facilities.   The city's population projected under the
first Sana'a project was underestimated, and as a consequence, the facilities
now being built under Credit 464-YAR will not have sufficient capacity to
meet the water supply needs of the actual population. Following YAR's first
census which was conducted in 1975, more reliable projections were obtained
and have been used for this project. The water supply component of the
proposed project is designed to complement the first one and together they
will provide a safe and adequate water supply to about 81% of the expected
1980 population through direct connections, and the remainder through public
taps. This compares with about 45% of the population which was to be served
upon completion of the first Sana'a Water Supply project in 1977. With minor
additional investments in the distribution network totalling about $2.8
million to be made over a period of 5 years after completion of the proposed
project, the system will have the capacity to serve the Sana'a population up
to the year 1985.
38.       Sana'a has no municipal sewerage and storm drainage.    The existing
individual methods of sewage collection and disposal are primitive and highly
unsatisfactory, and lead to contamination of the groundwater and to the
transmission of diseases through direct contact as well as through water and
insect borne vectors. Under the proposed project, sewers will be primarily
installed in the old areas of the city where alternative methods of sewage
disposal are not feasible because of lack of space and adverse soil condi-
tions. The majority of the lower income families live in these areas.
39.       The collection and treatment of sewage from that part of Sana'a
combined with planned sanitation measures for the rest of the population,
should improve living conditions in the city. Nevertheless, control over
future development will be necessary to ensure that present problems, such
as the difficulty of installing water and sewer pipelines in narrow streets
badly located, the wrong usage of land, and proliferation of overcrowded
areas, will not recur. The Government has employed consultants to prepare
an urban development plan for Sana'a. The Government has agreed to consult
the Association about this plan and to take appropriate measures to initiate
its implementation by March 31, 1978 (Section 3.05 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Foreign consultants are also preparing a building plumbing
code for Sana'a. It has also been agreed that the Government, following
consultation with the Association, will adopt and thereafter enforce a plumb-
ing code by July 1, 1977 (Section 3.04, draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed development credit of US$10.0 million would be the As-
sociation's third operation in the sector. The project includes another main
stage of works recommended under a water supply and sewerage master plan pre-
pared by a consultant firm, Italconsult, as part of a UNDP pre-investment



- 13 -
study executed by WHO. The project was appraised in April 1976. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington on November 9 and 10, 1976. The Yemeni delega-
tion was headed by Dr. Mohamed Al-Ariki, Deputy Chairman, Central Planning
Organization. A Staff Project Report entitled "Sana'a Second Water Supply
and Sewerage Project" (No. 1270a-YAR, dated December 6, 1976) is being dis-
tributed separately. A Development Credit and Project Summary is attached as
Annex III. Maps showing the project location and the proposed water supply
and sewerage systems are also attached.
Project Concept
41.       The project would consist of enlarging the water supply scheme now
being built under IDA Credit 464-YAR, to serve the Sana'a population up to
the year 1985, and of constructing the first phase of a sewerage master plan
covering the city's needs up to the year 2000. Initially, the sewerage sys-
tem would serve 50% of the population, mostly the poorest living in the old
city where no private systems of sewage disposal can be used. For the re-
maining parts of the city, the Government will, not later than July 1, 1978,
adopt and thereafter implement a program for the construction of public
conveniences and for the provision of other sanitation measures. (Section
3.07, draft Development Credit Agreement). The project is designed in such a
way as to permit further expansions of its capacity as the demands increase
and additional funds become available. In addition, technical assistance to
the YAR's construction industry will be provided under the proposed project
(paragraphs 56-58).
42.       All wastewaters generated in the project area will be treated in
stabilization lagoons whose effluent will be used for irrigation. This mode
of treatment is the least cost solution among several alternatives studied by
the consultants and, because of its relatively easy operation, is considered
as being the most convenient for Sana'a. Although the treatment plant to be
built *under the proposed project would only have the capacity to handle the
1985 expected sewage flows, it is necessary, however, to acquire henceforth
the land which would be needed to accommodate the plant facilities in the
year 2000. NWSA has completed satisfactory arrangements for the acquisition
of such land.
43.       The main elements of the Project are:
(a) construction and equipment of about 10 wells for a
total capacity of 200 l/s;
(b) installation of well header and transmission pipeline
to convey water to the headworks;
(c) purchase and installation of pumps and motor drives to
increase the pumping capacity by 150 l/s;
(d) construction of a reservoir of 10,000 m3;



- 14 -
(e) supply and laying of distribution pipes, 18,000 water
connections and 50 public taps;
(f) laying of sewers and construction of sewage collectors
and interceptors in the most densely populated areas;
(g) construction of stabilization ponds with a capacity of
65,000 m3/day and related facilities;
(h)  installation of 8,700 sewage connections;
(i) supply of sewer maintenance and laboratory equipment;
(j)  consulting services for project design and construction
supervision;
(k) feasibility studies for water supply and sewerage in two
medium cities, Ibb and Dhamar; and
(1)  technical assistance to YAR construction industry.
Project Costs and Financing
44.       The estimated total cost of the project, net of taxes, is US$45.8
million (YRls 205.9 million) of which 61.4 percent or US$28.1 million rep-
resents the foreign exchange component. The estimated cost of the water
supply component including all contingencies is US$17.1 million; the cost of
the sewerage component is US$28.0 million. The preparation of the feasibility
studies for Ibb and Dhamar and technical assistance for the development of the
construction industry would cost about $0.7 million. The project contains.an
estimated 630 man-months of consulting services for these purposes and for
assistance in construction supervision. The estimated cost of these services
is about U$4,700 per man-month. Details of the cost estimates and the expected
sources of financing are given in Annex III.
45.       The proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million which represents about
22% of the total project costs, would finance the foreign exchange cost of (i)
the sewage treatment plant (stabilization ponds); (ii) sewer pipes; (iii) the
construction of man-holes for the sewer system; (iv) consulting services for
construction supervision of the sewerage component and for preparation of the
feasibility studies for Ibb and Dhamar; and (v) the assistance to YAR construc-
tion industry. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development has expressed
interest in financing the entire cost of the water supply component (US$17.1
million) amounting to about 37% of the total project costs. The YAR Government
is exploring with the Saudi Government and other sources the possibility of
their financing the civil works for installation of the sewer pipes and house
connections (US$14.5 million) representing about 32% of the overall project
cost. The balance of US$4.2 million, or about 9% of the total project costs,
would be provided by the Government from its own sources to cover the local
costs of the IDA financed project components.



- 15 -
46.       The signing of loan agreements between the Government and (a) the
Arab Fund for a loan of US$17.1 million and (b) other sources for a loan of
US$14.5 million would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA
credit (Section 6.01(c) and (d), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Assurances have also been obtained from the Government that it will provide
any additional funds needed for the project including those necessary to meet
any cost overruns (Section 3.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Onlending Arrangements.
47.       The YAR Government would be the borrower of the IDA credit.    The
Government would retain US$400,000 of the proceeds to finance the foreign
exchange of the technical assistance to the construction industry. Similar
to the arrangements made for Credits 464-YAR and 559-YAR, it is proposed that
56% of the credit balance (US$5.4 million) be re-lent by the Government to
NWSA, at the current Bank interest rate of 8.7%, for a term of 20 years
including a 5-year grace period. The remaining 44% (US$4.2 million) would be
passed to NWSA as a Government equity contribution. This is necessary at this
early stage of NWSA's development to help this agency build up its capital
structure and be able to expand progressively its systems and operations with
its own resources. It is also expected, pending further discussions with the
Arab Fund and other cofinancing sources, that the same proportions would be
used for their loans (US$31.6 million). However, based on past experience, it
is assumed that the portion (US$17.7 million) of these loans to be onlent to
NWSA, would bear a lower onlending rate, and this would result in an effective
onlending rate of about 6% on the sub-loans to NWSA.
48.       Execution of a subsidiary financing agreement between the Government
and NWSA, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, will be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit (Section 6.01(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
49.       NWSA will be responsible for the implementation of the project.
Its head office is located in Sana'a. A branch office in Sana'a and another
one in Hodeida operate the systems in these two cities under the supervision
of the head office. NWSA's headquarters is presently divided into five
departments - operational, technical, administrative, financial and procure-
ment. The manager of the Operational Department fulfills the function of
Deputy Director General.
50.       NWSA is a rather young organization with a small technical-staff of
limited experience in the management of public utilities and construction
supervision. An expatriate civil engineer whose services are financed under
Credit 464-YAR is presently assisting NWSA's staff in the day-to-day opera-
tions and construction supervision of the first Sana'a and Hodeida projects.
A second expatriate engineer was hired by NWSA in November 1976 and his



- 16 -
services will be paid for by the Arab Fund. For construction supervision of
the proposed project, it will be necessary that NWSA be assisted by engineer-
ing consultants who would also provide on-the-job training to the staff.
51.       The Project would be carried out during the years 1976 through
1981. Final design and bid documents are being prepared by a British consult-
ing firm, Howard Humphreys and Sons, whose selection was accepted by the As-
sociation. Bidding of the major elements of the project is expected to start
in January 1977. NWSA has agreed that consultants acceptable to the Associa-
tion will be appointed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, to assist NWSA in construction supervision and in carrying out the
feasibility studies of water supply and sewerage for Ibb and Dhamar (Section
2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
52.       Certain key indicators for staffing and training, system opera-
tions, and finances, have been designed for monitoring progress in project
implementation. These indicators were discussed and found acceptable by the
YAR delegation during negotiations. NWSA has also agreed to report quarterly
on these indicators during project execution, and annually during the five
years following project completion (Section 2.04, draft Project Agreement).
Staff Training
53.       NWSA continues to face severe staffing problems.    In part this is
related to the present salary structure in YAR. To a greater extent the
problem is a reflection of the severe general shortage of trained people in
YAR. While NWSA has been able to recruit two Yemeni sanitary engineers to
fill the technical positions, the recruitment of qualified professionals for
financial positions has not been satisfactory. To overcome this situation,
NWSA will have to mount a substantial training program.
54.       Through its previous lending to the sector, the Association has
already provided substantial financing for training of NWSA's staff. Also,
the Arab Fund and UNDP are financing the current training programs whose
major objective is to provide NWSA with staff that it would need by 1980.
However, because of the scarcity of qualified technicians previously men-
tioned, the revised forecast of NWSA's 1980 staffing requirements indicates
that long-term training needs are even greater than those previously esti-
mated during the appraisal of the first Sana'a and Hodeida projects. In
collaboration with USAID, the Association has re-appraised NWSA's needs for
administrative and technical support and has concluded that NWSA should re-
ceive an additional 162 man months of technical assistance and 500 man months
of training over the next four years. The total cost of such assistance and
training is estimated at US$1.2 million. USAID is considering making a loan
to the Government to finance this assistance and training program.
55.       The training program covers many fields and involves the participa-
tion of about 400 people. The few staff now available in NWSA have no expe-
rience in training administration and are needed to assure the operation of



- 17 -
the systems. In order to coordinate the various training activities, it was
agreed that by July 1, 1977 NWSA will employ an expatriate training advisor
for a period of not less than two years (Section 3.03, draft Project Agreement).
Assistance to the Construction Industry
56.       A survey of the local construction industry, excluding the National
Highway Authority, shows that the total capacity of the industry in terms of
the value of works undertaken is only about US$11.0 million per year. Al-
though NWSA's planned annual investments represent only a small fraction of
the country's total construction requirements, the industry's present capacity
will not be able to even meet NWSA's needs. Thus it is evident that YAR will
have to continue to rely in the next few years on foreign contractors, if it
wishes to go on with its proposed investment plan. Meanwhile, the Government
should try to strengthen the local construction industry in order to create
more competition and reduce prices.
57.       Part of the proposed project is therefore to assist the Government
in the development of a strong local private construction industry through
(a) training of administration officials and contractors in the preparation
of tender documents and contract supervision, forecasting manpower and train-
ing needs, and ways of meeting them; (b) provision of a training course for
contractors, covering basic principles of organization and business adminis-
tration, cost control, planning, construction techniques and productivity,
and cost estimating; and (c) provision of on-the-job training for graduate
Yemeni civil engineers with large well-run construction firm overseas.
58.       The estimated cost of this assistance and training is about
US$500,000. The proposed IDA credit would provide for this purpose
US$400,000 which would be retained by the Government to finance the foreign
exchange cost of this program.
Procurement
59.       All major contracts financed by the Association will be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group
Guidelines for Procurement. For bid evaluation a 15% margin of preference
or the actual customs duties, whichever is lower, would be allowed for equip-
ment manufactured in YAR. Local civil works contractors would be allowed
a preference of 7-1/2%. Contracts for civil works or goods of less than
YRls 225,000 (US$50,000), but aggregating to not more than YRls 1,350,000
(US$300,000), would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with NWSA procedures which are acceptable to IDA.
The items financed by the Arab Fund and other cofinancing sources (the water
supply component and the installation of sewers and sewage connections,
respectively) would be procured in accordance with their own guidelines.
Disbursements
60.       The proposed credit would be disbursed against:   (i) the full CIF
cost of all direct imports for the sewerage component; 85% of the cost of



- 18 -
locally procured imported equipment, or 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured equipment and pipes for the sewerage component; (ii) the foreign
exchange cost of consulting services for preparation of the feasibiity studies
for Ibb and Dhamar and for construction supervision of the sewerage component;
(iii) 60% of total expenditures on civil works construction and installation
of the sewage treatment plant and manholes in the sewer system; and (iv) 100%
of foreign expenditures on the technical assistance program to the local
construction industry.
Financial Analysis
Present Situation
61.       NWSA's financial system is still in its early stage of implementa-
tion. Preliminary balance sheets and income statements were prepared for the
period ending June 30, 1975. In that period cash generated by the Sana'a
branch was not enough to cover the operating expenses of the head office,
which were financed by the Government. This situation will continue to pre-
vail until the end of June 1977 when part of the new water supply system fi-
nanced under Credit 464-YAR will be in operation and increased tariffs will
be in force. By that time, NWSA should be able to cover all its operating
and maintenance expenses including those of the head office, with revenues of
the branch offices.
62.       Since it initiated its operations in November 1974, NWSA has been
recording its financial operations on a cash basis. Revenues are credited
only after they are received, the concept of income earned being ignored in
the accounts. In compliance with the provisions of the agreement for the
first Sana'a Water Supply Project (Credit 464-YAR), NWSA commissioned a
Lebanese consulting firm, Deloitte, Haskins, Sells, Shair and Company to
design a new accounting system for NWSA. The consultants' proposals which
cover customer billing, collection and control, cost accounting and budget-
ing, were accepted by NWSA. The implementation of the accounting system
was slow. However, NWSA has recently taken steps satisfactory to the
Association to ensure a speedy implementation of the accounting system.
Tariffs
63.       A tariff study for Sana'a prepared by the same Lebanese consulting
firm, financed under Credit 464-YAR, has been completed, reviewed by the As-
sociation and approved by NWSA and the Government. The proposed tariff struc-
ture appears to be adequate and proper to the Sana'a situation. It provides
for a three-step tariff based on metered sales to make minimum domestic con-
sumption requirements available at a cost which is within the means of the
low-income population, and to promote a rational use of the scarce water re-
sources by levying higher tariffs on consumption in excess of basic needs.
The projected average tariffs in Sana'a will rank,among the highest in the



- 19 -
World, US$1.26/1,000 gallons for water, compared for instance to an average
of US$0.65/1,000 gallons in the United States. Under the provisions of Credit
464-YAR, NWSA should have implemented this tariff structure in 1975. However,
because completion of the first Sana'a water supply project has been delayed,
the Association agreed to NWSA's request to postpone the implementation to
January 1977 when water from the new system will start providing improved
services.
64.       Under the provisions of the credit agreement (559-YAR) for the
Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project, NWSA is committed to set, main-
tain, and periodically adjust water and sewerage tariffs to realize a positive
rate of return in 1978. From 1978 through 1984 the rate of return should
gradually increase so as to reach not less than 5% on NWSA's average net fixed
assets (properly valued or revalued) in operation in 1984, and not less than
7-1/2% in 1987 and thereafter. This covenant will be kept unchanged under the
proposed credit. Financial projections for the project have been made on the
assumption that adequate water and sewerage rates will be implemented in the
cities served by NWSA to produce the agreed overall rates of return.
65.       It was agreed that the Government would take necessary measures to
ensure that all water supply customers provided with fronting sewers will be
required to connect to the sewerage by December 31, 1978 (Section 3.06 draft
Development Credit Agreement). To ensure that this connection cost will not
place an undue financial burden on low-income families, it was agreed that
NWSA will give credit facilities to these families (Section 2.11 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Future Finances
66.       NWSA's financial structure and liquid position will change substan-
tially during the period of project implementation. By the end of 1981 the
year of project completion, its total assets will increase about 24 times,
from US$5.1 million in 1976 to US$123.5 million. By 1980 Government equity
will reach US$57.7 million, while long-term debt will rise from US$1.8 mil-
lion in 1976 to about US$45.7 million in 1980. The debt equity ratio will
change from 0.67 in 1977 to about 0.8 by 1980 from where on it will stabilize
around 0.7 in the successive years. The ratio of current assets to current
liability will be less favorable during the construction period because of
the large investment program. To ensure an orderly development of NWSA's fi-
nancial structure during this period of rapid expansion, agreement was reached
that by March 31, 1977 NWSA will employ two expatriate financial experts for a
period of not less than three years to advise its staff, and that during the
project execution it will annually review with the Association its investment
program and incorporate any reasonable modifications proposed by the Associa-
tion (Sections 3.02 and 4.05, draft Project Agreement). In addition, it was
agreed that prior to taking over any water supply or sewer systems, NWSA will
submit to the Association for its review and comments a detailed program
covering inter alia a description of the work program, valuation of the



- 20 -
existing systems, staffing needs and availability of staff, working capital
requirements, schedule of estimated capital expenditures and their sources,
terms and conditions (Section 3.04, draft Project Agreement).
67.       Under the provisions of the Project Agreement for Credit 464-YAR,
NWSA is committed to obtain the Association's concurrence before incurring
any long-term debt unless its net cash generation from operations provides
an average coverage of at least 1.5 times its maximum debt service. This
requirement will be continued under the proposed project (Section 4.03,
draft Project Agreement). The average debt service ratio forecast up to
1984 is 1.4. The only additional investments projected by NWSA before 1984
are in Taiz. Any arrangement for debt financing of the Taiz project would
have to be made in consultation with the Association.
Economic Benefits
68.       The project is essential to meet Sana'a's basic needs for safe water
over the next decade and to dispose adequately of sewage which at present
constitutes a source of contamination and water-borne diseases. The proposed
water supply project together with the first one will serve about 81% of the
city's 1980 population through direct connections. The remainder will be
served by easily accessible public taps. Adequate water supply will also be-
come available for commercial and industrial usages. The proposed sewerage
project will primarily benefit the low income population the majority of whom
live in the areas to be serviced with sewers. For the rest of the popula-
tion, the Government will build public conveniences and will give technical
assistance to homeowners who wish to construct septic tanks and other private
sewage disposal facilities. Both the proposed water supply and sewerage com-
ponents are the least cost solutions among several feasible alternatives.
69.       If net revenues from water sales and sewerage charges are taken as
benefits, the internal economic rate of return of the project would be 8.9%.
The rate of return would be 13.4% for the water supply component and 4.6% for
the sewerage. The rate of return is significantly sensitive to the levels of
water sales. Moderate increases in capital investments would not much affect
the expected return. Even in the unlikely event that a decrease of 20% in
water sales and an increase of 20% in the capital investments would occur,
the rate of return would be 4%, which is still acceptable considering the
project's unquantifiable social benefits. The full economic return on the
investments would be much higher if it were possible to quantify the improve-
ments of the environment and public health, which are not fully reflected in
the prices charged for water and sewerage services.
Risks
70.       The measures proposed to be taken in conjunction with the project,
such as the technical assistance to NWSA by expatriate advisors for finance,
training and construction supervision, the continuous review by the Associa-



- 21 -
tion of NWSA's financial situation and investment programs, and monitoring of
key indicators of progress (paragraph 52), will ensure that the risks in-
volved are minimized to the fullest extent possible. NWSA is a relatively
young agency which is not yet adequately staffed. However, an extensive
training program is under way and will continue during the next four years.
NWSA's financial stability through the extremely rapid growth period can be
considered assured, because of the willingness of the city's population to pay
for public services, the implementation of improved billing and collection
methods, and the provision of adequate water supply services.
Environmental Impact of the Project
71.       Provision of safe water to large segments of the urban poor should
help to reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases, provide better living
conditions in Sana'a and foster the city's economic growth. After the project
is completed, much of the population will be provided with convenient ways
of disposing wastewaters. Pollution of the aquifer will be greatly reduced,
thus, preserving the unique water supply source available to Sana'a.
Conclusion
72.       The Association's support for the project is fully justified be-
cause of YAR's urgent needs for equipping its capital city with basic infra-
structure such as water supply, sewerage and drainage. For centuries, the
Sana'a population has been drinking polluted water and has been deprived of
adequate sewage disposal facilities. The Government has no alternative but
to proceed with this project if acceptable living conditions are to be offered
in Sana'a. The proposed credit will further assist the Government in its
efforts to strengthen NWSA.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, the Project Agreement between the National
Water and Sewerage Authority and the Association, the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment and the text of the Resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
74.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agree-
ment of special interest are referred to in Section III of Annex IV.
75.       Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement provides
the following additional conditions of effectiveness: (a) the ratification
of the project agreement by all necessary governmental and corporate action,
(b) the execution and ratification of the subsidiary Financing Agreement
between the Borrower and NWSA, (c) the signing of a Loan Agreement between



- 22 -
the Borrower and the Arab Fund for an amount of US$17.1 million and (d) the
signing of Loan Agreement(s) between the Borrower and other cofinancier(s)
for US$14.5 million.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed devel-
opment credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 7, 1976



Pace I of II p.40
TABLE JA
VERIEN ARA8 SEP        SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA 11N9t7
LAND AREA (THOU RN12)                  .........................
.......                          t~~~~~~~IREN ARAB REP                 REfERENCE COUNTRIES (1970I,
TOA    9.                                           MOST RECEFII
AGRIC.        *.                          960        0970   ESIINATE           AFGHANISTAN     NEPAL      Jflh*"
GNP PER CAPITA (USA)                          ..         .        3.                   00         6.           5.
?OPULArION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULTIO    tio-N      qILLION)4.6                   5.8        6.5                15.0         11.1         2.$
POPULATION DOUS! IVT
PEA SCUARE RN                           4.0       30.         i3.                  3. 90                  24.0
VEA SO. KM. AGR                                                                                2 % ICULTURAL LAND  .. 690  I. 102.  272.0  165.0
VITAL STAtISTICS
AVERAGE BlkIN RATE C/THOU)             50.8       50.3        49.6                48.7        44.7        4?.5
AVERAGE DEATH RATZ (/THOU)             30.7       24.1        20.6                27.6        24.6         17.8
INFANT NORTALIlT RATE (/THOU)            ...                160.                120       200.0-300.0
LIFE EXPECIANCV At AIlRTA dYRi         31.2       4,2.3       44.8               83,7.8       40.1        50.1
GROSS REPROUUCIlION RATE                 ..         3.5        3.5                 3.4         3.0         3.5
POPULAkTION GOOWTH RATE CI)2.                                     31.31
F OT AL                                 2.2        23*         23                    2A         .           .
URBAN                                    S.          .          .                   .2         4.0
URBAN POPULATICN (I GF TOTALJ                .         .         5.4                10.1         4.0
AGE STRUCTUPE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 VEARS                         43.3       44.1.      464.6               43.2           .
15 to 64 TEARS                         54.0       53.2       52.7                34.2           ..        49.5L
65 YEARS ANID OVER                      2.?        2.7         2.7                 2.6                      .a
AGE UCEPENCECIC RATIO                     0.9        09          0.9                 0.e-                    I    $1.
ECONORIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  :.          .           .                  .           .
FAMILY PLANNING
.ACCEPI0.IS tCURULATIvE. FHOU)             .          ....                                     86.5
USLAS Cl OF NIARRIED WOMEN)                .         .          .
Emi LO Y EN T
TOTAL IWADAO FORCE (THOUSAND)..                         .           ..                             .        35.
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTUrE Il                .         .       0.-I0                   ..                   330,
UCJNgPLOYED (I OF LABOR FORCE               .           .         .                    ..                   14.0 L
INCOAE iJIS1RIBUtION
S OF PRVATE INOIE RECO0 BY-
HIGHIEST  SX CF HOUSLHTLUS               .           .          .
HIGhEST 200 OF HOUSEHOLDS                             ..
LOWEST   201 OF HOUSEHOLOS                 .         ...
LOWEST   401Z CF HOUSEhOLDS              .           .          .
OISTVTR.UTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
AJIJC    B  TOPD10a  OF OWER                .
I OIED MI SALLEST 101 OWNERS              .           .         .
HEALT1H AND NYUTSRITION
POPULATION PEt PHNYSICIAN            143500.OA~ 31340.0     23110.0             10110. 0     497rO.0 j    Z 680.0
PUP-JLATION PER NURSING PERSON             ...               0320.0             195810.      35600.0 4    150.
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL WED  ..        ..     0~~~~~      ~~600.0  6030.(Z    6750.0        960.0
PLR CAPIIA SUPPLY OIF-
C ALURITEA (I CF REQJ IREME#VT)        8 2.0      81.0       840/         00                  9 3.0       94.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                65. 0      62.0       61.0                 58.         520         60.0
-UF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              .      IIB           .                 11.0        11.00        18.0L1
DEATH RAIE C/THOU) AGES 1-4                S.          .           .                   ..                     .Olj
ECUCATIUN
AUJUiTE eNROLLMENT RATIO
PPRIART SCHOOL                          a.O       1 o.0        60                22. O/4.I    I S1:0~     72.04
SECOND0A0Y SCHJUL                       0..Y       1.oL.       1.0 O "- L20,a.     I.f.g       7O         33.g
TEARS Or' SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                                            ad3                      
(FIRST ANO SfCONO0 LEVEL)                ..       12.0        12. 0               12 .0       10.0        12. 0
4UCkTIONAL EN~ROLLMENT
CI OF SECONCA RV)                                  2. 0      11.0                 4.0         6. 0         3. O&J
AOJLT LIIERACYT RATE (1)                  10.          .       .0-20.0              10.0        1 4.0
H'W IS PER RUOIA (AVERAGE)               .           .         .
OCCUPIED DwELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER Cl)                           .          .          .
ACCESS TO ELiECTRICITY
(0 OF ALL OIWELLINGS)                    .           .          .
AURAL OAECLLINCS CONNECTED
TO ELECTHICITY Cl)                       .           .          .
CONS10 P TI O
NAW!)  IECEIIEAS (PER THrU Pop)             ..         .          .                  6.0         5.0       160.0
PA~SLNG ER CAAs   F ER THOUt POP)           .          .          ..2.0                          0.4         1.0
ELECTRICITY CrWr4/yA PEN CAP)             2.0a        3.0        6.0               23.0          6.0        72.0o
N..WSrHINT (I(,!/TV  PEA~ CAP)              ..         .          .                   .Cj                    0. 3
SEE  OlE  410 OFINTIO4~  N VWE S



HOld                                              lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pgo 2, ci 4 pogon
Un,lessothe,rwise noted, data for 1960 rstor to any pear between 1959 an        1961, for.1970 between 1968 and 1910, and for Ment boc..ot b.svieotn betw.on
1973 ed 1975.
o 0 c. toeigration. I.poplation grow,th ratei towe-r than rata of natoral Ins,sea..
on.vrln  ns lnted ha S  1bjectto- coutry fan Y-ne    Arab Rap. an both -oonrias err Arab with similar        c-cenc   ytmn     hav   o1 c-ot          ea
re...rcen;h have  larg broohor   of   lg8rasis eh.en reitta....wa sobt-ntialip    finance. the ilepot bill; and both depend no, foreign a-c Lcc -nperL tlate
m1-tiono of their vorrent an     capital gvr-  -ant ependiture.
YL211N -ccol ccl.    Uhf60        iomnw       only;     /b  7-12 and 13-19 yanra cf age r-epe-tilyni.
1970;    /   1964-6b;     lb 7-12 and 13-Ill yeara of age   cnp-ti-ely.
vi.icl'l riSiTIAL:  /a   1969-11 seecag;       lb  1)7'*     Ic  712 accd 13-li poem   of age r-pec-ony.
.?011c.dill..il  Ic/i  Ia~L  Diltm.rence onteno  UDi rate of natural iacrea...ea.d 10,1D pcpoletlon growth rate doe to dilltrvicvoo-ant
.lb  in.clg   _aactent venendln              nd ass istant midwive,      /c   hccoludng cotncc-ty enod roe!Icc;tl
/d  -oblic ndo-Li-c onlY;        In  7-1:, any 1)-1il yearn ci age r.ennviv-ly.
.z.c. L                      L. /  e,ocrI. In   -vr-nnt aer-ce       only;     lb   Including Mdidwne;       Ic  6-10 ..cc il-lb years ol og. -epe-tlvly.
v.cc.lcc             I,71    is   coot flank only,    /b   Ketto of pouaio       -oe   15 any 65 and -nr Lo votci     .Labo  force;    fl   I1i-6b;      Id  ilcc
-               ~~~~~~~~~/n  io-l-cbof  blIbIl  scicole.
toc-icbr lb, P/Il.
DEFOIITIONSI OP SIcCIAL INDICATORi
'Land urA-  (thou Lboc                                                                Pocietion pepusn          ernn-    Pylto       divided by ember of preetiving
Total -Total earface are      eomprinig land area and inland waters,                    male nd I_nl     gradunte noe,       trained   or  ce.rtified" 00r000. and
Acrne. -MPlet reveal na.tiate of agioluelae            uned temporarily or              ancillary petsonnel with training oreprin.
permanetly for cropa, pantorna, marbkt A bitehen gardena or so lie                  Ponolation 2ear bonotal be~d - Ppoplation divded by no.nbee of hooPitL1 body
fallow                                        ..avileblo in publi.eand private geanra1 e nd epovialleod benpital nod
rehabilitation centern, evlodes earning hone       andeoainnnt          fr
'NP yer capita (US)' - ClNP per capita entieaten at sc.rctI. narbet p-ave.              cutrdia   ad preventive yam.
caleclated by te. sane vo-vrnion netbod an Wenld Bank Atln (1913-75                 Per capitaIouvppLs. of calories ft ofreie       nt).Conpoted fron nncgp
banin); 1960, 1970 and 1975d dta.                                                     eqoivalnt of net food nopplies a-ilahle intoutry per capita per day.
available nupylina conprine docestic production, i,porto lean enportn.
Ppltio  and vtal atatietis                                                           and changen in   toci; net no pplien.. noiode animal fend, neede. qoac ti-
Poposo      (mid-yr. nillion) - As of Joly firar:     if nsailabLe,                     tie  oe.d ie food preceosing end loasenin die.tribotion; reqofronot
avergea of rev end-yea     entina ten, 1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                      were eatinated by FA0 boned on physioogca        ned'fo vLna       activty
and. health  ..neideringenviroanenetal. temperatre    bdy    eighta, afe and
PPonlatla   d    tvaiy-yr 900amIon      Mid-pear popolation per square kilo-            000dintttrioion     of population, and allowing l0t for waste at haven-
netar ('100 hEcter-a) of total arahold level
Peopletion d.-aLsy - nor nowere knn of aoriv. land - Cp.npted      o above for        Pet vaPita ucpely of pr6tein (groea per day) - protein content of per
agri-oItora1 lend only.                                                               cuptia net nopply of tend per day; nor supply of fond in defined av
above, re qfirenennto for aLl vo-ntrien nutahiehed by USDo Evvc.olc
Olca1 o.toisrica                                                                        geneerh ler-icen provide for a m.iniaaloae            of hi grenu of total
Crude birth rate nor thounand - Aencol lIve hirth. per thounand of old-                 protein per day, and 20 grama of anial and po Lne prtecin, of which
year pepofation, tev-year arithoetie -vraina ending i1960 and 1970,                   10 grae, should be animal protein; thene      tandarda are lowr than thono
and   Lfv-yea  averg.eondiog in 1975 for nouc rcen.t eaciave.of 75 grace of total protein and 23 grana of animal provta ai                                a
Cruds death rave per thouuaed - Annua.l doarho Per thewund of mid-year                  average Fer the world, proponed by F90 In the Third World Nir       P-rsv.
pplto,tnyeraihtc a            erae  ending in 1960 and 1970, and           Peoaiacoei              pyfcn anma       and noise _ Pratein eupply of foccd
five-yea   averag  en-din  in17     ganotrctesmt,                                     derived loo   anoead         Ip.le. ngr     pen day.
In fant anvaitruv       i    A5c  - ovv,el cleaho vf nfaf-e   -nd.e on    ee   f      Dea.th rave f/thv,,) ears 14 - Annoal d-arho no     rh--nn1 c     o.eu
aepethund        Ive_ birtho.                                                       1-4 yearn, to children iv shin apr grou, oog9ec.md u        n  nictrof
Life nopevoancy   t birth lyre) - overage acuber of yeara of life remining              nalouItritoen
at birth; ...ualfy fiv-pooar averagea eoding in 1960, 1970 mcd 1915 for
Green  erndocti.-on rate -Average nucohr of live daughtorn a       oa     ill         Adluted enroIlentrai-pimrahal-Eolet                           f al  age   a
bea.r in her'norma   reprodoti-a period if she enperiennoen present age-              prcentage of primary school-geg population; iecivdeu children aged
specific fertility reten; unually fle-yea       -vragne ending in 1960,               b-lI Yearn hut edjuntd for different lengtbe of primary edoc-Lion,
1970 and 1971 for developing counotien.                                               for vountrina   ith'universal edcvtion, enolmntny enveed lOOT
Popol.tion growth rate (Ti     total - Conpud annual growth roera       of old-         since non   pupila are below or above the officeal     ehav1 age.
peer population  or 1950-60, 16-70   and  97-75                                Adlunted.enrollm,ent ratio - seeondary anheol - Coputed en above;
Peeclavion, oroth rave (T       rbo   - Conpted.like grwhrv:f:te                           odr      dntion roi        et o  leant fou  year  of approved p.-cvry
population; different definitinon    of urban area   may effeet cpre-                 inetruction; providen general, voctional or teac.her tr.ialing
bIiiyofdta anogc-utrien.                                                              inatroction. for popils of 12 to 17 yearn of age; verrenpondenee
lIchen pnpculation ft of ctota) - Ratio of urban to total population,                   coursee are generally eneluded.
different definitions of urbee amen -y affect ceeaparobility of date                Years of echeolng provided ifir.t and anvend level) - lote1 yearn of
00009 c_P trien                                                                       sehooting, at   erondery level,    -octionu1 inetroction naY be Pot-
Age atruocrn (norce..t) - Children (0-lb yearn), curbing-age (15-64 yearn),             tial o1rcnpetely        ociuded
and retired (61 yearn and over) as per...ntagna of old-peer population.             Puet  ena     enrelan  (7 of ndcondary) - 'loctional intitotion
A"' dependenncy ratio, - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                include technical, ind-trr-a     or ethe  pregran   which eperate
thon     ofae   5 throu.gh 64.                                                        independently or non departments af    eeodry laiu        oe
Elono-ie dependency ratio    - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over           idult literocy rate    T)-Literate adults (able toread ond write) a
to the labor force in agegroup of 15-6.4 yearn.                                       perconctaga of total adult populution aged 15 p.ram    end over.
PFnily plaaima - urenetar     (vcaolativ-   thou) - Conulati-n nnber of
aecoptors of bIrth-control devices ond.r auspices of national family                Iona
planning program    ame  icoptio                                                    Poon    pot rem   (averge) - Average number of per.-n per rem in
Family etiaanig- osn      fto      maried can.n)-Perventagen of married                 occupied covenrional dwellings Lm arben amen.; deellirgo noviode
.enen. of child-bearing age (15-44 yearn) who onee birth-control d-wice              none-Permanet struCturesand onoccpied parve.
to allImaried woven is ome      age group.                                          Oceupi nd dwellings wlontpiped water (I1 -Occupied couv-ntionol
dwelligs in urba     and rura   areas  ithout inside or occtnide piped
f,nelonmet                                                                              wertor f-cilitiea an percentage nf all occupied d.ellioga.
Total laor force(sbmhaedl- Economicaly active poroon, including                  Acceon to electricity (T of all deellinin) - Con-notfona1 deellingo
eromid forcee and. anmpoyd but enviading houneivee, otudenta, ete. ;                   ith electricity in Iving qoarters an percent of rural d-llinga in
defniiso  i  vrios   ouarie     re  etcoparable.                                 arban and rura   areas.
Labor forc   iagiotr         (T   -Aricultural labor force (in farming,               Rura,l dwe11ioge coneted to electrivitv,,l), - Conpoted aabove for
forestry  Xhntimg and finhing) a        eretg    of total labor force.                roral dwL Longe onlY.
inneplyn    fT of labor foree) -     -neploye d are ouIl    defied an persoa
who are abl.eand willing to tahe a Job,      u  of ajb on a given day,              Conoomeoso
renamed oat of aJob, and      nebing w-r    fort a  pecified ui-i,     period       iaarcevr         (nr thou poel - All typee of r...i-rer      lot radio bread-
not e.ce.ding one    -ka; may not ha comparable hbtwon evtrlen do yto                 coost to gene.ralpublic per thousan.d of populatIon; e4c1sden
different defLititos   of unemployed and -orve. of date , e.g., eplv-                unliceo...d receivers in countriLes and in y-ar    when regilaration of
emet office atastiotca, neple nur-yn, compulonry unnpley-at inuac,                    radi.onets wan in effect, data for re cent yearn ecy net be comparable
niece mont countrie    abelihed 1 on     lg.
Invon  dincribution, - Percentagetof private incom     (bath in ce:.b and kind)       Pannencer corn (nor thea pop)- Peeenercars comprine          eater care
invoiced by riohant 5T, richoo     2OT, poorear 20T, and poorat4lOT of                nearing less then eight perona; ...oluden anh1l.nc.o. beacons and
honholId..                                                                            nilitery e-hicle..
Electricityr (khb/n pe;rcap) -.Annualcconsumption of in4untria1, eo-
Diarribution of land m.nrahiv - Percentages of lead ownd by wealthient                  mrcial, poblic and pIvate elecriity In kilowatt h,'-.rn per caPita,
lOT and poorent lOT of land owera.                                                    generelly based on production data,i without allowance for loners in
grid hot allowing for lunp ort.,andt.enporta of electricity.
enalth and Nutritin                                                                     ewpint (b/rnr top) - Per vpita           nnual consomption In hilogran
Peenletion pe  phyniccan -  epolation diided by number of practicing         eatimeted from domeetic production     ion. net import.oeq newsprint.
ph,niionu, qualified fro    a- meica   ucoo     t  n1--inty leve.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS IN 1973                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% constant prices)
US $ Mln.     Z        1960-65      1965-70     1973
GNP at Market Prices            880       100
Gross Domestic Investment                              ..
Gross National Savings
Current-Account Balance       - 15          2
Exports of Goods, NFS            9          1
Imports of Goods, NFS          155         18
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE
(1973 est.)              GDP in US$ million 1/    GDP percent    % of Labor force
Agriculture                       487                  66               80-85
Industry                           23                   3              About 1
Services                          233                  31               14-19
TOTAL         743                 100                100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YR. MILLION)                 Actual                 Budget Estimate
70/71  71/72   72/73  73/74  74/75   75/76   76/77
Current revenues                      98    151    199     275    380    486      781
Current expenditures                 171    228    272    323     460    571      820
Current balance                     -73     -77    -73    -48     -80    -85     -39
Capital expenditures                 83      56     58     140    185    425     552
Overall balance                    -156    -133   -131   -188    -265   -510    -591
Domestic financing                    37    -38     14    -32    -231    n.a.    n.a.
External financing                   119'   171    117     250    548    n.a.    n.a.
(Comimodity & Project loans)      (83)    (56)   (58)  (126)   (115)  (237)2/ (303) 2
(Cash loans)                      (36)    (59)   (--)   (15)    (44)  (n.a.)  (n.a.)
(Cash grants)                    (n.a.)   (56)   (59)  (109)   (389)  (n.a.)  (r.a.)
Discrepancy                           -      -       -    -30     -52     -        -
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES (YR. Million)
June 30                  March 31
1972    1973     1974    1975      1975    1976
Money supply                348.9    474.4   611.5   959.5     764.2  1,581.6
Quasi money                  57.5    110.3   116.8   177.9     108.6    400.9
Credit to private sector    108.4    168.6   238.7   395.5     262.3    476.4
Net claims on Governwent    102.5    115.6    83.6  -147.5    -134.1   -327.1
Net Foreign Assets 3/       546.2    608.8   691.8 1,183.4   1,051.3  2,093.1
Genieral Price Index
(1972=100) 4/              100     143      181     224
Annual percentage
Change:                   .,       43      27      24
1/ 1972 prices
2/  Estimates of Central Planning Organization                     ..  Not available
3/  Data refer to end of fiscal year (June 30 of each year)            Not applicable
4/ Annual average of Sena'a Consumer Price Index



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (USS Million)
July-Dec.
1971/72   1972/73    1973/74   1974/75  1974    1975
Exports                                       8.4       7.2      13.8       13.0    5.8     5.0
Imports                                     -86.6    -121.9    -194.1    -258.5 -104.7   -184.8
Balance of trade                            -78.2    -114.7    -180.3    -245.5 - 98.9   -179.8
Workers remittances                         1         107.4     112.0      190.8
Services (net)                               58.6      12.7      18.8      29.9
Commodity and cash grants                    14.7      14.3      30.9       93.1   (
Balance on current accounts                  -4.9      19.7     -18.6       68.3
n.a.
Official M&LT capital, net                   18.7       8.0      28.7       32.7
Gross disbursement                          (24.6)    (12.3)    (32.1)     (36.5)
Repayments                                  (-5.9)    (-4.3)    (-3.4)     (-3.8)
Others, including errors and omissions        7.6      11.0       8.3       8.3
Changes in reserves (- increase)            -21.4     -38.7     -18.4    -109.3
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1971/72-1974/75)i2
Average US$ Million   Percent
Cotton                    4.7              44
Coffee                    1.2              11
Hides and skins            1.0             10
Cotton seeds              0.4               4
Others                    3.3              31
TOTALS               10.6             100
EXTERNAL DEBT (March 31, 1976)                                   US$ Million
External public debt outstanding (March 31, 1976)                       477
Of which:  disbursed                    --                           271
Debt service payments - 1975/76                                           2.8
Ratio of debt service to total merchandise
exports in 1974/75                                                    22 percent
Ratio of debt service to exports
of goods and services (including
Workers' Remittances) - 1974/75         --                              1.2 percent
RATE OF EXCHANGE 2/
Through February 1973: US$1 = YR5; YR1 = US$0.20
Since February 1973:    US$1 = YR4.5; YR1 - US$0.22
1/ An estimated 70 percent of total exports is recorded.
2/ No par value for the Yemen rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of October 31, 1976 - US$ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                      (less cancellations)
Number   Year          Borrower       Purpose               IDA     _Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways               7.7         2.5
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Tihama Agriculture    21.2 /1     13.5
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Education             11.0         8.4
464     1974   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply           6.3         3.3
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Industrial Estate      2.3         1.9
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Rural Development     10.0         9.9
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways               9.0         4.3
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply and
and Sewerage         8.1         7.9
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic   Education              8.0         8.0
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic   Grain Storage and
Processing           5.2         5.2
662     1976   Yemen Arab Republic   Livestock Credit and
Processing /2        5.0         5.0
Total                                             93.8         69.9
Of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                             93.8
Total undisbursed                                              69.9
/1   Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
/2   Approved in October, 1976 and signed on November 15, 1976.
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of October 31, 1976)
IFC has made no investments in YAR.
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
A Bank grant of US$200,000, equivalent, was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. The team
of five advisors has helped establish the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
which is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
economic policies, identifying and preparing investments projects, and co-
ordinating external aid. The Executive Directors approved on September 11,
1973 a second Bank grant of US$200,000 equivalent to make possible the con-
tinuation of the services of the planning team. The Kuwait Fund joined with
a grant of about US$300,000. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant
of US$120,000 to provide for the continuation of the services of a planning
team including those of a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait
Fund also joined with a grant of about US$425,000.
D.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 315-YAR - Highway; US$7.7 Million Credit of June 26, 1972; Effective-
ness Date: January 15, 1973; Closing Date: Mfarch 31, 1978.
After long initial delays in the implementation of the project
arising from the lack of satisfactory response to construction bidding, the
Borrower has arranged for force account execution of the 69 km Taiz-Turba road
construction; the work started in March 1975 and is now progressing satisfac-
torily. New consultants for the technical assistance component of the project
have been appointed. Most of the road and engineering equipment included in
the project has been delivered.
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; US$10.9 Million Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: September 4, 1973; and US$10.3 million Supplementary
Credit of April 9, 1976; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The Tihama Development Authority, responsible for project execution,
was set up and two advisors (technical and financial) were appointed by end of
1973. Project consultants, appointed since April 1973, have completed specifi-
cation drawings of all the required contracts. Nine contracts for preliminary
works including camps, access and field roads and extension offices were
awarded to local contractors. Seven of them have already been substantially
completed. Three major contracts, one each for the construction of diversion
weir, canals and the regulating gates, were put to international tendering and
have since been awarded. The Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) was legally
established towards the end of 1974. The Credit Manager and the Field Manager
for the ACF have been appointed. Measures to increase ACF's flexibility and
its effectiveness have been recently taken. The total cost of the Project is
now estimated at $40.8 million compared with $17.5 million at the time of
initial appraisal. The Government asked the Association and the Kuwait Fund
for additional financing and a reappraisal mission visited Yemen in September
1975. The Kuwait Fund approved in December 1975 a supplementary loan of KD
2.8 million and the Association approved on March 30, 1976 a US$10.3 million
supplementary credit for the project. The reappraisal estimate of December
1978 for project completion is expected to be met.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; US$11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project encountered some initial delays due to difficulties
in recruiting qualified staff for the Project Unit and the UNDP/UNESCO Task
Force. All the principal posts in the Project Unit have, however, now been
filled. The delay of about eight months in project implementation is ex-
pected to be reduced significantly as a result of measures being taken to
expedite completion of designs and educational programs. Construction of
practically all project institutions started in August 1976 and the prepara-
tion of furniture and equipment lists are well advanced. A proposed new
structure for the Ministry of Education has been prepared by the Task Force
for consideration by the Government. The new structure would include a
directorate for primary education and a directorate for technical and
vocational training as required under the current Credit Agreement. These
arrangements are expected to be implemented shortly by the Government. The
Task Force is further working on the preparation of programs and curricula
to be adopted for the project institutions. In the further development of
the project, the Government and the Association are placing increased emphasis
on ensuring the availability of a sufficient number of qualified instructors
for all project institutions.
Cr. No. 464-YAR - Water Supply Project; US$6.25 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1974; Closing Date: June 10, 1978.
The execution of this project was originally delayed by the con-
sultants' slow progress in preparing the final design and tender documents
of the works. Most of the civil works contracts have now been placed and
delivery of materials has been completed. However, the performance of the
local contractor carrying out the construction of reservoirs and pumping
stations and the installation of pipes, has not been satisfactory. NWSA,
has recently succeeded in getting the contractor to enter into a management
contract with an experienced British contracting firm (Lilley, International).
This arrangement is expected to improve the execution of civil works under
the project.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; US$2.3 million Credit of March 4.
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Tenders for civil works were received in the last week of October
as scheduled. The lowest bid was for more than double the appraisal estimate
which had been prepared in early 1973. This high cost is due to the unex-
pected increase in building costs that has taken place since project appraisal.
In the light of this cost increase and at the Government's request, the Asso-
ciation agreed to retain the highest priority items in the project. The
Development Credit Agreement was amended accordingly. Construction works
started in February 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; US$10.0 million
Credit of May 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
The Development Credit was approved on May 6, 1975 and signed on
May 13, 1975. The Project Unit has been established and the Project Manager
has also been appointed. Bids for the project buildings have been received.
Thirty-nine extension agents have been placed in 14 field locations. Delays
in project implementation have arisen due to problems of weak management.
Corrective measures are being taken by the Government to improve the per-
formance of the Project Unit.
Cr. 558-YAR - Second Highway Project; US$9.0 million of June 20, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Development Credit was approved on June 17, 1975 and signed on
June 20, 1975. The contract for the construction of Taiz-Km 64 was signed on
July 1975. Construction works started in October 1975, for completion in
December 1976. The project is progressing satisfatorily.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$8.1 million
of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Preparation of the tender documents is proceeding on schedule.
Tenders for the bulk supply of materials for the water supply and sewerage
components were received on May 30, 1976. The contract has been awarded for
the drilling of test and production wells. Tenders for the construction of
the supply main from the wellfield to the city were received on October 15,
1976 and are now being evaluated. It is expected that contracts for all works
will have been awarded by early 1977, thus maintaining the project schedule.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; US$8.0 million of February 13,
1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The Development Credit was approved on February 10, signed on
February 13, 1976 and declared effective on May 10, 1976. Physical imple-
mentation is proceeding saisfactorily; design development is expected to be
completed on schedule and construction of the Taiz Vocational Center has
been advanced by about one year. However, recruitment of project experts
is progressing relatively slowly. Efforts are being made by the Government
assisted by IDA to adequately staff the Project Unit in the shortest time
possible.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Projlect; US$5.2 million of
June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The expatriate project manager and his local counterpart,,had been
appointed prior to negotiations. Contract negotiations with the engineering
firm Oscar Faber have been completed and the firm has commenced work on the
project. The sites for the silo, the Government bakeries and the warehouses
have been acquired and properly demarcated. A silo superintendent and an
accountant (both local) have been appointed and eight bakery extension agents
have also been selected for training starting January 1977. Applications of
other expatriate experts are being reviewed and steps to initiate the storage
study and nutrition survey are being currently undertaken. Project imple-
mentation is proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Prolect; US$5.0 million of
November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: March 15, 1977, Closing Date:
,June 30, 1984.
The Management consultants have been appointed and will be in the
field in early December 1976. Consultants for site selection have also been
selected.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Yemen Arab Republic
Beneficiary:         National Water and Sewerage Authority (NWSA)
Amount:              US$10.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Onlending Terms:    The YAR Government would be the borrower of the IDA
Credit. From the proceeds of the credit, the Government
would retain $400,000 to finance the foreign exchange
cost of technical assistance to the local construction
industry. Similar to the arrangements made under credits
464-YAR and 559-YAR, it is proposed that of the credit
balance, 56 percent (US$5.4 million) would be on-lent by
the Government to NWSA, at the current Bank interest rate
of 8.7 percent for 20 years including 5 years grace. The
remaining 44 percent (US$4.2 million) would be passed on
to NWSA as Government equity contribution.
Project
Description:       The main elements of the project are:
(A)  the extension of the water supply scheme now
being built under IDA Credit 464-YAR to serve
the Sana'a population with the following major
components:
(i)  construction and installation of equip-
ment for about 10 wells;
(ii)  installation of well header and trans-
mission pipeline to convey water to the
headworks;
(iii)  purchase and installation of booster pumps;
(iv)  construction of a 10,000 m3 reservoir;



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
(v)  laying of distribution pipes, and installa-
tion of about 18,000 water connections and
about 50 public taps;
(vi) purchase of laboratory equipment;
(vii)  provision of consultant services to assist
in the design and construction supervision
of the water supply system.
(B)  construction of the first phase of a sewerage
master plan covering the city's needs up to the
year 2000. Completion of the first phase would
benefit 50% of the population, mostly the poorest
and would comprise:
(i)  purchase of sewer pipes, materials for about
8,700 house connections and sewer maintenance
equipment;
(ii) laying of sewers and sewage collectors and
installation of house connections in the most
densely populated areas of Sana'a;
(iii)  construction of stabilization ponds;
(iv) construction of, and purchase and installation
of equipment for pumping stations;
(v)  provision of consultants' services to assist
NWSA in construction supervision;
(C)  Preparation of feasibility studies for the implementa-
tion of water and sewerage facilities for the towns
of Ibb and Dhamar; and
(D)  technical assistance to the local construction in-
dustry.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Project Cost /1
and Financing:
Local  Foreign    Total        Financing
Component                      (Cost in US$ Thousand)    Source      Amount     %
A. Water Supply
Equipment and Civil Works   6,020   9,890    15,910
Design and Supervision        172     976     1,148   Arab Fund    17,058   37.3
Total                       6,192   10,866   17,058
B. Sewerage
Equipment & civil works
of treatment plant and man-
holes, supply of sewer                                Gov't.        3,648    8.0
pipes                       3,648   8,686    12,334   IDA           8,686   19.0
Civil works for installa-                             Other
tion of sewers and house                              Co-
connections                 7,276   7,260    14,536   financiers   14,536   31.8
Gov't.          379    0.8
Construction Supervision      379     754     1,133   IDA             754    1.6
Total                      11,303   16,700   28,003   Total        28,003   61.2
C. Feasibility Studies                                   Gov't.           40    0.1
for Ibb and Dhamar             40      160      200   IDA             160    0.3
D. Assistance to local                                   Gov't.          100    0.2
construction industry         100     400       500   IDA            400     0.9
Grand Total                17,635  28,126    45,761   Sources     45,761   100.0
/1 Including price and physical contingencies.
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
Fiscal years               1977   1978    1979   1980   1981   1982
------------(US$ million)--------------
Annual                     0.05   0.46    2.10   4.25   2.16   0.98
Cumulative                 0.05   0.51    2.61   6.86   9.02  10.00



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
Procurement
Arrangements:       All major contracts financed by the Association would be
procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines for Procure-
ment and in conformity with the Procurement Schedule of
the draft Project Agreement. For bid evaluation, a 15
percent margin of preference or the customs duties,
whichever is lower, would be allowed for equipment manu-
factured in the YAR. Local civil works contractors would
be allowed a 7-1/2 percent preference. Contracts for civil
works or goods of less than US$50,000 aggregating to not
more than US$300,000 would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with NWSA procedures which are acceptable to IDA. The
items financed by the Arab Fund and other cofinanciers
(the water supply component and the installation of sewers
and sewage connections) would be procured in accordance
with their own guidelines.
Technical
Assistance:         Consultants will be employed in accordance with Bank
procedures to prepare feasibility studies for water and
sewerage facilities in Ibb and Dhamar, aid in construc-
tion supervision and provide technical assistance for
the development of the local construction industry (630
man-months).
Rate of Return:      8.9 percent.
Estimated
Completion Date:   December 31, 1981.
Staff Plroject
Report:             Report No. 1270a-YAR dated December 6, 1976,
Regional Proiects Department. EMENA.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         Two years (April 1974/April 1976)
(b)  Agency which prepared project.         UNDP/WHO
(c)  Project first presented to Bank/IDA:   November 1975
(d) First Bank mission to review
project:                             December 1975
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:        March 20, 1976
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:            October 10, 1976
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:         On about April 30, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
No special actions necessary.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Conditions of effectiveness of the Development Credit are as follows:
(a) the execution and ratification of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement
between the Borrower and NWSA (paragraph 48);
(b) the signing of a Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Arab Fund
for an amount of $17.1 million (paragraph 46); and
(c) the signing of Loan Agreement(s) between the Borrower and other Co-
financier(s) for $14.5 million (paragraph 46).
2.   Measures to be taken by the Government include:
(a) to adopt and thereafter enforce a plumbing code by July 1, 1977
(paragraph 39).
(b) to take measures necessary to ensure the prompt adoption and satisfactory
implementation thereafter of a master urban development plan for the
Sana'a area by March 31, 1978 (paragraph 39).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(c) to adopt and thereafter implement a program for the construction of
public conveniences and provision of other sanitation measures for the
population of Sana'a not served with sewers under the proposed Project
by July 1, 1978 (paragraph 41).
(d) to take measures necessary to ensure that all customers' dwellings con-
nected to the Sana'a water system will also be connected to the fronting
sewers by December 31, 1978 (paragraph 65).
3.   Measures to be taken by NWSA include:
(a) to employ by March 31, 1977 two expatriate financial advisors for a
period of three years to implement appropriate accounting and budgeting
procedures and assist in training its accounting staff (paragraph 66).
(b) to employ by July 1, 1977 a training expert for a period of 2 years to
implement appropriate training program for its managerial, technical and
clerical staff (paragraph 55).
(c) not to take over or assume responsibilities for additional water or
sewerage facilities outside the cities of Sana'a, Hodeida and Ta'izz
without prior consultation with the Association (paragraph 66).
(d) to provide credit facilities to low-income customers to assist them in
meeting the costs of connecting their dwellings to fronting sewers
(paragraph 65).
(e) not to incur any long-term debt without the Association's concurrence
unless its net cash generation from operations provides an average
coverage of at least 1.5 times its maximum debt service (paragraph
67).
(f) to provide each year to the Association for its review and comments
its proposed investment program for that year well in advance of its
adoption and make such modification as the Association reasonably
requests (paragraph 66).
(g) to set, maintain and periodically adjust water and sewerage tariffs in
such manner as shall be necessary to realize a positive rate of return,
in 1978. From 1978 through 1984 the rate of return should gradually in-
crease so as to reach not less than 5% on NWSA's average net fixed assets
(properly valued or revalued) in operation in 1984, and not less than
7.5% in 1987 and thereafter (paragraph 64).






9  44 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 ~~~~~~IBRD-12285
44'                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JULY 1976
W     I$ AD., SC  BARA \'/                 4YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
'!; {W  CUTRAL,>/zA   '1- - -''   \  S A U D I  A R A S I A
j RAWAIT                     SAUDIT  ARABIArzn  SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
SAUR+   EMIFATE Jsay r        <                oI >; sARDl aFABIA  <7      a  | PROJECT
F YE)E                                                      Poved Prrmory Ro0ds
(FA.s _      ~*~                                         - )- \ {  S\- Prlnmory Roods Under Construchon
5-      - EORth lAo                                                    her Roads
is     .'               (                                       0;  j < 2 _) | /  /   :)   3  Not,onal Coptiol
'_________________________ _  J  (S  A  D  A   H   )0  C,t,es  Tlons and  Villages
115MB            2                                     -     Wadrs
\Soodol     S    __   D   ..-.-2700-  Contours In Meters
\3SX  S \  /  A   /   <  ; 5.  *  InternOIlOnoI  Airoorts
rz  t )\ \  Provncnal Boundaries
\ j f\o$>rAt  _  _. _  Internolionol  Boundories
0   20   40  60   80   Ig0
A' J!,_' A                                             KILOMETEE(S
0      20     40      6
MILES
\Ao     )      Ao P L DERI  RB OE
A              /     e    WSEMS m S\ MOISYO NA  270 --
b., ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    .
Al                           E ~~~~I D  AK
lZ.  o,,.
I4*                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14-
PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
E T N I 0 P I A/         \
/ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GUI F                       OF  A DEN
/   F T A. 1.                                                      O
/TA  I 7.,                  r               da6
__/_|0                                           _W  aews4






SANA'A SiECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWRAGE
/                      ~~~~PROJECT                     RA        D,
I              ~~~Water Supply Components/J
"ROJEC T   FEEDER   M ,,SI
|    _  MAINSEBEING U5cr UNDER CfSDIT4IS V
WORKS EU LTI S LSAI,
.WARES 'ANDER CONSTRUCTIONR UYSAID
LIMIT OFEpEGGUREI 
/WELLS
CO""ToURS IIN METERS) 
KITU      AREAS< ,






IBRD-12287
(_  '1pt1.b.976
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                                    TREATMENT VLANT
SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                       (                    s >.-                               {U
PROJECT I
Sewerage    Components                            7      7
..SUD  AREA AWD 30U-DARY                                                      2250
INSEROEPTINO SEW/ER TO DE CONSTRUCTED SEECRE SEED   _ _ g t fa Zt 
---   r:ERCEMTING SEWlER TO 3E CONCSTRUCTESD ETWEErI EDO0 AND ISE35| 1 <0/  
..........  ...C SER TO. E CESTfUCTER 1AD2000 . . 2
-       T3 UNK SEWTET TC RE CONSTRUCTED DREont *E7R
TMUI.E SEEEER TO CE CON5RUCTEL 3ETWEEN 1973 AWD 1ER
.......ONA .....RUNOD3E CODSTCCR COnED3ETWE IEEE ANR 250/l .......................  '. 
.ARINE SDUNDAT IES AN TD 'lC.CAElS                                                |J
CONTOURS .IN METERSI
HODADLACES           r                                   \      \    V     '    /    E,                 /
P-7
D | GUI  \T UP APEAS           \
(3                                                   X  -  W tl * f - 9 xe \ R X~~~~~~~~ol  
! .2?0                                                                           .. 'OD;i r
f                          /     \                           /    \\   )                    lU E   |& p
T  W  PA2. TE >  DRUSUEIETTR\       0   )\                                          )      |   \               \ 
0,j'D U   . *  .?  RC-S  ?                                                                1L=L2,tk 
\   .'                              '
11             020W               -o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
J  ~   SAC  C  ADBEUCDE  IR~     C,EUTA,R U,,U,UICR~SR~C2U
ET.  A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~S~UUUUUU~pU~~C



