Document of
The World Bank                     FILE    P
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1270-YAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF PROJECT REPORT ON THE
SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
December 6, 1976
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents msy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YRls)
YRls 1         = US$ 0.222
US$ 1          = YRls 4.50
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Kilometer (km)                     = 0.62 mile
Square Kilometer (kin2)            = 0.386 square mile
Hectare (ha)                       = 2.47 acres
Millimeter (mm)                    = 0.03937 inch
Centimeter (cm)                    = 0.3937 inch
Meter (m)                          = 39.37 inches
Cubic Meter (m3)                   = 264 US gallons
Cubic Meters per second (m3/sec)  = 22.8 million US gallons per day
Liter (1)                          = 0.264 US gallon
Liters per second (1/sec)          = 22,800 US gallons per day
Liters per capita per day (lcd)   = 0.264 US gallon per capita per day
Milligram per liter (mg/l)         = 1.0 parts per million
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
MPWM           =    Ministry of Public Works and Municipalities
NWSA           =    National Water and Sewerage Authority
UNDP           =    United Nations Dcxelopment Program
USAID          =    Inited States Agency for International Development
UNICEF         =    United Nations Children Fund
WHO            =    World Health Organization
YAR            =    Yemen Arab Republic
ABBREVIATIONS
ft        =  foot                               min          =   minute
lpcd      =  liters per capita per day          ppm          =   part per million
m         =  meter                               sec         =   second
m3/sec    =  cubic meters/per second             U.S.        =   United States
NWSA's FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF PROJECT REPORT ON THE
SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND  SUMMARY  ................................                             i-xvi
1.     THE WATER  SUPPLY AND  SEWERAGE  SECTOR  ....................                              1
General  .................................................                                 1
Water  Resources  and  Sewerage  ............................                              2
Sector  Program  ..........................................                                3
The  Government's  Priorities  in  the  Sector  ....                    ...........        3
Sector  Organization  .....................................                                4
Financing  Needs  .........................................                                5
Performance  under  Previous  IDA Lending  ..................                              5
IDA's Objectives  for the  Sector .........................                                6
Map  IBRD-12285  - Location of  the Project  Area  ....                     .......        8
2.     THE BENEFICIARY  .........................................                                 9
Introduction  ............................................                                 9
Organization  and Management  .............................                                9
Personnel  ...............................................                                10
Training  ................................................                                10
Billing and Collection .......................                                            11
Accounting  Practices  and  Procedures  .....................                             11
Audit  ...................................................                                12
Insurance  ...............................................                               12
Taxes  ...................................................                               12
Chart  No.  163-04  - NWSA's  Organization  ..................                            13
3.     DEMAND AND MARKET  ASPECTS  ...............................                               14
Present  Production  and  Consumption  ......................                             14
Population  Forecast  .....................................                               14
Forecast  of  Consumption  .................................                              15
Table  3.1   Forecast  of  Population  and Water  Consumption  .                          16
Figure  3-1  Population  Forecasts  .........................                            17
Figure  3-2  Forecast  of Water  Consumption  and  Connections.                           18
This report was prepared by Messrs. Fritz Rodriguez, Johann Renkewitz
and William J. Cosgrove.
uO1 3z20o14nf  I1UI        t P°OAO InOWA P"SO3!P ^  11MJ4014O IOU Auw SUO)UO) s1l   nlp I:Ig1o T924 JO
23uwwm Jud oql ul Aluo slusd!3oJ Aq posn .q Avw puB vuownqp1sip polijlsoj B svq U;unOp Siwn



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                                                                                                 Page No.
4.   THE PROJECT .............................................                                                                          19
Existing Facilities ...................                                                                                       19
Scope   of   the   Project   ....................................                                                             19
Project   Description   .....................................                                                                 20
Cost   Estimates    ..........................................                                                                21
Financing   of   the   Project   ................................                                                             23
Project   Implementation   ..................................                                                                 24
Sana'a   Development   Plan   .................................                                                              25
Associated   Sanitation   Measures    ..........................                                                              25
Local   Construction   Industry   .............................                                                               25
Procurement    .............................................                                                                  26
Disbursements   ...........................................                                                                   27
Monitoring   Criteria   .....................................                                                                 30
Table   4-6   Monitoring   Indicators   .........................                                                            31
Fig. 4-1  Bar Chart for Design, Bidding and Construction.                                                                    32
Map   12286   Water   Supply   Components    .......................                                                          33
Map   12287   Sewerage   Components   ...........................                                                             34
5.        FINANCIAL   ANALYSIS   ......................................                                                                35
Past  Finances  and Present  Position  ......................                                                                35
Water   and   Sewerage   Tariffs   ..............................                                                             35
Financing   Plan   ..........................................                                                                37
Future   Financial   Performance   ............................                                                              39
Table 5-4 Summary of Income and Cash Flow Statements   ....                                                                  41
Fig.   5-1          Cash   Flow   Chart   ...............................                                                    42
6.       ECONOMIC   ANALYSIS   .......................................                                                                 43
Investment   Objectives    ...................................                                                               43
Least   Cost   Solution   .....................................                                                              43
Internal   Economic   Return   ................................                                                              43
Average   Incremental   Costs   ...............................                                                              44
Sensitivity   Analysis   ....................................                                                                45
Risks   ...................................................                                                                  46
Environmental  Impact  of  the Project  .....................                                                                46
7.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..................                                                                       47
ANNEX - Additional Information Available in Project File   .....                                                                       49
November 18, 1976



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF PROJECT REPORT ON THE
SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
I. THE WJATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
1.        Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) relies on rainfall and groundwater for
its water supply as there are no permanent sources of surface water. Some of
the old river beds have heavy flows during the summer rains, but none con-
tains running water throughout the year. In the urban centers, where only
about 6% of the population live, some piped water supply is provided by local
cooperatives and private enterprises. The villages and rural areas are sup-
plied with water primarily from hand-dug wells. In most areas the groundwater
is moderately mineralized.
2.        The existing water supply facilities are inadequate.  Water short-
ages are widespread and most wells, particularly the hand-dug ones are con-
taminated. Continual lowering of the water table, due to limited recharge
and increasing extraction for both agricultural and domestic uses, is being
experienced in many regions particularly in the Sana'a area.
Sewerage
3.        There are no municipal sewer systems yet in operation in YAR.  A
very few institutions and housing developments in Sana'a have wastewater
facilities. A sewage system for Hodeida which is being implemented under
the liodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project 1/ financed by IDA and the
Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development is scheduled for completion
by the end of 1979.
Sector Program and Constraints
4.        The main problem that the Government faces in trying to accelerate
development in the sector is the paucity of trained engineers and technicians
to prepare sound projects and to buiLd and operate the ongoing works. Be-
cause of this problem it was logical to select as first priorities, urban
projects wlhere the greatest impact could be made with the limited human re-
sources available. Feasibiilty studies for water supply and sewerage in the
three main urban centers (Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz) indicate that investments
in current prices for these centers may reach US$99.0 million by 1981. The
Government is giving top priority to tle proposed Sana'a project because of
the present critical water shortage and the inadequacy of sanitary facilities
1/   Report No. 773-YAR of June 3, 1975.



- ii -
in the capital city where the concentration of population makes it particu-
larly vulnerable to outbreaks of epidemic diseases. A review of feasibility
studies is being planned for water supply and sanitation in the fifteen
largest remaining cities. IDA has been requested to finance the studies
for two of these, Ibb and Dhamar. It is estimated that the cost of providing
water supply and sanitation to these fifteen cities will be at least US$50.0
million.
5.        A rural water development program undertaken by the Ministry of
Public Works is well underway with assistance from WHO as the executing
agency for UNDP, UNICEF and other bilateral agencies and donor countries,
e.g. the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Abu
Dhabi, Saudi Arabia, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands.
Total aid to the rural sector to date approaches US$20.0 million, including
volunteer technical assistance. It is estimated that at current prices,
US$550.0 million will be needed to complete the rural water supply program,
of which about one-half would be required in foreign exchange.
6.        Because of severe Government budget constraints, any substantial
improvement of the sector will depend largely on the financial and technical
support given by external agencies. Until now financing has been available
for all projects which the Government has been able to prepare with its
limited technical resources. Once this limitation is removed, more projects
will be prepared and the need for external financial support will grow.
Sector Organization
7.        The Ministry of Public Works and Municipalities (MPIWM) is respon-
sible for planning and executing all Government projects in the sector. It
has two main departments dealing with water supply - Municipal and Rural
Affairs, and Rural Water Supply. The latter was established in 1972 to co-
ordinate external assistance for rural projects. Under a current project
of the United Nations Development Program 1/ measures are being implemented
to reorganize and strengthen this department through technical assistance
and training.
8.        With the Association's assistance, the Government in November 1973
established the National Water and Sewerage Authority (NIWSA), to be respon-
sible for planning, executing and operating those water supply and sewerage
facilities in urban centers which have been specifically delegated to it by
the Government. The legislation creating NWSA also stipulates that it will
take over any system for which long-term borrowing is foreseen. Thus far, it
has become responsible for the Sana'a and liodeida systems. NWSA is presently
poorly staffed, but its operations are projected to grow fast.  Because of
this, it is expected that its staff will be overloaded with work. Therefore,
it would be prudent that additional transfers of water supply or sewer systems
to NWSA be made only as adequate organization and staff become available
(Section 3.04, draft Project Agreement).
1/   Project No. YEM/73/017 of May 1975.



- iii -
9.         NWSA is an autonomous Government entity and is managed by a Board
of seven members consisting of the Minister of Public Works and Municipalities
as Chairman, the Deputy Minister of Public Works as Vice-Chairman, the Deputy
Minister of Treasury, the Director General of NWSA, the head of Municipal
Affairs, and two representatives of the private sector. The Board is respon-
sible to the Council of Ministers whose approval is required for establishing
or changing water and sewerage rates, and other charges such as connection
fees. Borrowings by NWSA from sources other than Government must be approved
hy the Council of Ministers and the Consultative Assembly. The Director
General assures the day-to-day activities and is responsible to the Board for
NWSA's performance.
Previous IDA Lending in the Sector
10.        IDA lending to YAR for the sector commenced in 1974 when a Credit
(464-YAR) of US$6.25 million was made t:o help the Government finance the first
public water supply system for Sana'a. The execution of this project was
originally delayed by the consultants' slow progress in preparing the final
design and tender doctments of the works. Most of the civil works contracts
have now been placed and delivery of materials has been completed. However,
the performance of the local contractor carrying out the construction of
reservoirs and pumping stations and the installation of pipes, has been
poor, and execution is behind schedule by about six months.
11.       To remedy this situation, NWSA succeeded in October in getting the
contractor to enter, at his own expense, into a management contract with an
experienced British contracting firm, Lilley International. This arrangement
is expected to improve the execution of civil works under the ongoing project.
12.        In May 1975 IDA approved a credit of US$10 million (545-YAR) for
the Southern Uplands and Rural Development Project. Of this credit, US$1.8
million was allocated to help in the financing of village water supply schemes.
In June 1975, an IDA credit of US$8.1 million (559-YAR) was approved to finance
partly the water supply component of the liodeida Water Supply and Sewerage
Project. Financing of the sewerage component is being provided by a loan of
US$20.2 million from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development. Good
progress is being accomplished under the Hodeida project.
13.       Through its lending to the scctor, ID)A has initially assisted in
the creation of NWSA and is currently helping in strengthening this authority
so that it may become a competent and financially viable institution for the
administration of water supply and sewerage in YAR. Substantial technical
assistance and short term training have been provided under the existing
credits. A long term training program of Yemeni staff to be financed by
USAII) will be carried out in parallel to the proposed project.



- iv -
Objectives of the Project
14.       The proposed project would help the Government achieve its priority
objective of making maximum impact with limited human resources by concen-
trating initial investments where there is a concentration of population, and
correct an intolerable situation in Sana'a whose population has been supplied
with water from contaminated wells, and has been deprived of the minimum
sewerage facilities. The city's population projected under the first Sana'a
project was underestimated, and as a consequence, the facilities now being
built under Credit 464-YAR will not have sufficient capacity to meet the water
supply needs of the actual population. Following YAR's first census in 1975,
more reliable projections were obtained and used for this project. The water
supply component of the proposed project is designed to complement the first
one and together they will provide a safe and adequate water supply to about
81% of the expected 1980 population through direct connections, and the
remainder through public taps, compared to about 45% of the population which
was to be served upon completion of the first Sana'a Water Supply Poject in
1977. However, the water supply system with minor additional investments
totalling about US$2.8 million in distribution works, which would be made over
a period of 5 years after project completion would have the capacity to serve
the Sana'a population up to the year 1985.
15.       Sana'a has no municipal sewerage and storm drainage.  The existing
individual methods of sewage collection and disposal are primitive and highly
unsatisfactory, and lead to contamination of the groundwater and to the
transmission of diseases through direct contact as well as through water and
insect borne vectors. Under the proposed project, sewers will be primarily
installed in the old areas of the city where alternative methods of sewage
disposal are not feasible because of lack of space and adverse soil condi-
tions. The majority of the lower income families live in these areas.
16.       The collection and treatment of sewage from that part of Sana'a
combined with planned sanitation measures for the rest of the population,
should improve living conditions in the city. Nevertheless, control over
future development will be necessary to ensure that present problems, such
as the difficulty of installing water and sewer pipelines in narrow streets
badly located, the wrong usage of land, and proliferation of overcrowded
areas, will not recur. The Government has employed consultants to prepare
an urban development plan for Sana'a. Assurances were obtained that the
Government will consult the Association about this plan and will take appro-
priate measures to initiate its implementation by March 31, 1978 (Section
3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Foreign consultants are
also preparing a building plumbing code for Sana'a. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the Government, following consultation with the
Association, will adopt and enforce the plumbing code by July 1, 1977
(Section 3.04, draft Development Credit Agreement).



- v -
II. THE PROJECT
17.       The proposed development credit of US$10.0 million would be the
Association's third operation in the sector. The project includes the first
stage of works recommended under a water supply and sewerage master plan
prepared by a consultant firm, Italconsult, as part of a UNDP pre-investment
study executed by WHO. The project was appraised in April 1976. Negotiations
were held in Washington on November 9 and 10, 1976. The Yemeni delegation
was headed by Mr. Mohamed Al-Ariki, Deputy Chairman of the Central Planning
Organization.
Project Concept
18.       The project would consist of enlarging the water supply scheme now
being built under IDA Credit 464-YAR, to serve the Sana'a population up to
the year 1985, and of constructing the first phase of a sewerage master plan
covering the city's needs up to the year 2000. Initially, the sewerage sys-
tem would serve 50% of the population, mostly the poorest living in the old
city where no private systems of sewage disposal can be used. For the re-
maining parts of the city, the Government will build public conveniences and
will take other appropriate sanitation measures (Section 3.07, draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The project is designed in such a way as to permit
further expansions of its capacity as the demands increase and additional
funds become available. In addition, technical assistance to the Yemeni
construction industry will be provided under the proposed project (paragraphs
37-39).
19.       All wastewaters generated in the project area will be treated in
stabilization lagoons whose effluent will be used for irrigation. This mode
of treatment is the least cost solution among several alternatives studied by
the consultants and, because of its relatively easy operation, is considered
being the most convenient for Sana'a. Although the treatment plant to be
built under the proposed project would only have the capacity to handle the
1985 expected sewage flows, it is necessary, however, to acquire henceforth
the land which would be needed to accommodate the plant facilities in the
year 2000. NWSA has completed satisfactory arrangements for the acquisition
of such land.
20.       The main elements of the Project are:
(a) construction and equipment of 10 wells for a total
capacity of 200 l/s;
(b) installation of well header and transmission pipeline
to convey water to the headworks;
(c) purchase and installation of pumps and motor drives to
increase the pumping capacity by 150 l/s;
(d) construction of a reservoir of 10,000 m3;



- vi -
(e) supply and laying of distribution pipes, 18,000 water
connections and 50 public taps;
(f) laying of sewers and construction of sewage collectors
and interceptors in the most densely populated areas;
(g) construction of stabilization ponds with a capacity of
65,000 m3/day and related facilities;
(h) installation of 8,700 sewage connections;
(i) supply of sewer maintenance and laboratory equipment;
(j) consulting services for project design and construction
supervision;
(k)  feasibility studies for water supply and sewerage in two
medium cities, Ibb and Dhamar; and
(1) technical assistance to YAR construction industry.
Project Costs
21.       The estimated total cost of the project, net of taxes, is US$45.8
million (YRls 205.9 million) with a foreign exchange component of US$28.1
million or 61.5% of the total cost. The estimated cost of the water supply
component including all contingencies is US$17.1 million; the cost of the
sewerage component is US$28.2 million. A summary of the cost estimates is
as follows:



- vii -
Local  Foreign  Total   Percentage of
----US$ Thousands----  Foreign Exchange
A. Water Supply
Construction of wells                     144   1,305   1,449
Wellfield Collector                       251     633      884
Pumping installation                       16     135      151
Storage reservoir                          67     155      222
Distribution, connections and taps   2,380   4,893   7,273
Total Water Supply                     2,858   7,121   9,979           71.4
B. Sewerage
Sewers and Connections                 4,163   9,319  13,482
Treatment Plant                           962   1,643   2,605
Maintenance Equipment                     -       100      100
Total Sewerage                         5,125  11,062  16,187           68.3
C. Construction Supervision                  551   1,730   2,281          75.8
D. Feasibility Studies                        40      160     200         80.0
E. Assistance to Construction Industry    100        400      500         80.0
Sub-Total                              8,674  20,473  29,147
F. Physical Contingencies                  1,197   2,728   3,925
G. Price Escalation                        7,764   4,925  12,689
Total Project Cost                        17,635  28,126  45,761          61.5
22.       The cost estimates are based on construction price levels prevailing
in September 1976. A 15% allowance for physical contingencies was added to
the base costs. To provide for price escalation in construction works during
the project execution, annual inflation rates of 25% until 1980 and 10% there-
after have been assumed for local expenditures; for foreign expenditures, the
rates are projected to be 9% in 1976, 8% in 1977 through 1979 and 7% thereafter.
These rates are considered realistic and are based on the assumption that the
present cost escalation on works of the same type and magnitude would remain
unchanged during the construction period of the proposed project. Although
the disparity between domestic and foreign inflation rates would normally lead
to fluctuations in the exchange rate, this is not expected because of high
remittances of Yemenis working abroad, which have resulted since 1970 in
increasing foreign exchange reserves.



- viii -
23.       The project contains an estimated 630 man-months of consulting serv-
ices for assistance in construction supervision, the preparation of the feas-
ibility studies for Ibb and Dhamar and technical assistance for the develop-
ment of the construction industry. The estimated cost of these services is
about US$3 million, or a cost of U$4,700 per man-month.
Project Financing
24.       The sources of financing for the project components would be as
follows:
Local  Foreign   Total            Financing
Component                          (Cost in US$ Thousand)   Source   Amount    %
A. Water Supply
Equipment and Civil Works       6,020    9,890  15,910
Design and Supervision            172      976   1,148  A.Fund*   17,058  37.3
Total                           6,192   10,866  17,058
B. Sewerage
Equipment & civil works
of treatment plant and man-                              Gov't.      3,648   8.0
holes, supply of sewer pipes  3,648    8,686  12,334  IDA            8,686  19.0
Civil works for installa-
tion of sewers and house
connections                     7,276    7,260  14,536  O.COFI.** 14,536  31.8
Gov't.        379   0.8
Construction Supervision          379     754    1,133  IDA            754   1.6
Total                          11,303  16,700   28,003  Total       28,003  61.2
C. Feasibility Studies                                      Gov't.         40   0.1
for Ibb and Dhamar                 40     160       200  IDA           160   0.3
D. Assistance to local                                      Gov't.        100   0.2
construction industry             100     400       500  IDA           400   0.9
Grand Total                    17,635  28,126   45,761  Sources   45,761 100.0
*    Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development.
**   Other Co-financier.
25.       The proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million which represents about
22% of the total project costs, would finance the foreign exchange cost of (i)
the sewage treatment plant; (ii) sewer pipes; (iii) the construction of man-
holes on the sewer system; (iv) consulting services for construction supervi-
sion of the sewerage component and for preparation of the feasibility studies



- ix -
for Ibb and Dhamar; and (v) the assistance to YAR construction industry. The
Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development has expressed interest in financ-
ing the total cost of the water supply component (US$17.1 million) amounting
to about 37% of the total project costs. The YAR Government is exploring with
the Saudi Government and other external sources the possibility of financing
the civil works for installation of the sewer pipes and house connections
(US$14.5 million) representing about 32% of the overall project cost. The
balance of US$4.2 million, or about 9% of the total project costs, would be
provided by the Government from its own sources to cover the local costs of
the IDA financed project components.
26.       The signing of loan agreements between the Government and (a) the
Arab Fund for a loan of US$17.1 million and (b) other sources for a loan of
US$14.5 million would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA
credit (Section 6.01(c) and (d), draft Development Credit Agreement). As-
surances were obtained from the Government that it will provide any addi-
tional funds needed for the project including those necessary to meet any
cost overruns (Section 3.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Onlending Arrangements
27.       The YAR Government would be the borrower of the IDA credit.  From the
credit, the Government would retain US$400,000 to finance the foreign exchange
of the technical assistance to the construction industry. Similar to the
arrangements made for Credits 464-YAR and 559-YAR, it is proposed that 56% of
the credit balance (US$5.4 million) be re-lent by the Government to NWSA, at
the current Bank interest rate of 8.7% for a term of 20 years including a
5-year grace period. The remaining 44% (US$4.2 million) would be passed
to NWSA as a Government equity contribution. It is also expected, pending
further discussions with the Arab Fund and other financing sources, that the
same proportions would be used for their loans (US$31.6 million). However,
based on past experience, it is assumed that the portion (US$17.7 million) of
these loans to be onlent to NWSA, would bear lower onlending rate, and this
would result in an effective onlending rate of about 6% on all sub-loans to
NWSA.
28.       The proposed Government equity contribution is necessary at this
early stage of NWSA's development to help this agency build up its capital
structure and be able to expand progressively its systems and operations with
its own resources. In spite of this assistance, the projected tariffs in
Sana'a will rank among the highest in the world, US$1.26/1,000 gallons for
water, compared for instance to an average of US$0.65/1,000 gallons in the
United States. The sewer system will become operative only in 1980, and
therefore, a comparison of the projected sewerage tariffs with others would
be at this stage inappropriate.
29.        Execution of a subsidiary financing agreement between the Government
and NWSA, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, will be a



- x -
condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit (Section 6.01(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
30.       NWSA will be responsible for the implementation of the project.  NWSA
is an independent public authority and enjoys complete financial accountability.
Its head office is located in Sana'a. A branch office in Sana'a and another
one in Hodeida operate the systems in these two cities under the supervision
of the head office. NWSA's headquarters is presently divided into five depart-
ments - operational, technical, administrative, financial and procurement. The
manager of the Operational Department fulfills the function of Deputy Director
General.
31.       NWSA is a rather young organization with a small technical staff
of limited experience in the management of public utilities and construction
supervision. An experienced expatriate civil engineer whose services are
financed under Credit 464-YAR is presently assisting NWSA's staff in the
day-to-day operations and construction supervision of the first Sana'a and
Hodeida projects. A second experienced expatriate engineer was hired by
NWSA in November 1976; his services will be paid for by the Arab Fund. A
training program whose objective is to provide NWSA with the staff that it
would need by 1980, is being implemented. Meanwhile, for construction super-
vision of the proposed project, it will be necessary that NWSA be assisted by
engineering consultants who would also provide on-the-job training to the
staff.
32.       The Project would be carried out during the years 1976 through 1981.
Final design and bid documents are being prepared by a British consulting firm,
Howard Humphreys and Sons, whose selection was accepted by the Association.
Bidding of the major elements of the project is expected to start in January
1977. During negotiations assurances were obtained that consultants acceptable
to the Association will be appointed under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, to assist NWSA in construction supervision and in carrying
out the feasibility studies of water supply and sewerage for Ibb and Dhamar
(Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
33.       Certain key indicators for staffing and training, system operations,
and finances, have been designed for monitoring progress in project implementa-
tion. These indicators were discussed during negotiations found acceptable by
the YAR delegation. Assurances were obtained that NWSA will report quarterly
on these indicators during project execution, and annually during the five
years following project completion (Section 2.04, draft Project Agreement).
Staff Training
34.       NWSA continues to face severe staffing problems.  In part this is
connected to the present salary structure in YAR. To a greater extent the



- xi -
problem is a reflection of the severe general shortage of trained people in
YAR. While NWSA has been able to recruit two Yemeni sanitary engineers to
fill the technical positions, the recruitment of qualified professionals for
financial positions has not been satisfactory. To overcome this situation,
NlWSA will have to mount a substantial training program.
35.       Through its previous lending to the sector, the Association has
already provided substantial financing for training of NWSA's staff. Also,
the Arab Fund and UNDI' are financing the current training programs.  However,
because of the scarcity of qualified technicians previously mentioned, the
revised forecast of NWSA's 1980 staffing requirements indicates that long-
term training needs are even greater than those previously estimated during
the appraisal of the first Sana'a and lHodeida projects. In collaboration
with USAII), the Association has re-appraised NWSA's needs for administrative
and technical support and has concluded that NWSA should receive 162 man
months of technical assistance and 500 man months of training over the next
four years. The total cost of such assistance and training is estimated at
US$1.2 million.  USAID is considering making a loan to the Government to
finance this assistance and training program.
36.       The training program covers many fields and involves the participa-
tion of about 400 people. The few staff now available in NWSA have no expe-
rience in training administration and are needed to assure the operation of
the systems. In order to coordinate the various training activities, agree-
ment was reached during negotiations thiat by July 1, 1977 NWSA will employ
an experienced expatriate training advisor for a period of not less than two
years (Section 3.03, draft Project Agreement).
Assistance to the Construction Industrv
37.       A survey of the local, construction industry, excluding the National
Highway Authority, shows that the total capacity of the industry is only about
US$11.0 million per year.  Although NWSA's planned annual investments represent
only a small fraction of the country's total construction requirements, the
industry's present capacity will not be able to even meet NWISA's needs.  Thus
it is evident that YAR will have to continue to rely in the next few years on
foreign contractors, if it wishes to go on with its proposed investment plan.
Meanwhile, the Government should try to strengthen the local construction
industry in order to create more competition and reduce prices.
38.       hlie proposed project component is to assist the Government in the
development of a strong local private construction industry through (a) train-
ing of administration officials and contractors in the preparation of tender
documents and contract supervision, forecasting manpower and training needs,
and ways of meeting them; (b) provision of a training course for contractors,
covering basic principles of organization and business administration, cost
conitrol, planning, construction techniques and productivity, and cost esti-
mating; and (c) provision of on-the-job training for graduate Yemeni civil
engineers with large well-run construction firm overseas.



- xii -
39.       The estimated cost of this assistance and training is about
US$500,000. The proposed IDA credit would provide inter alia US$400,000
which would be retained by the Government to finance the foreign exchange
cost of this program.
Procurement
40.       All major contracts financed by the Association will be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group
Guidelines for Procurement. For bid evaluation a 15% margin of preference
or the actual customs duties, whichever is lower, would be allowed for equip-
ment manufactured in YAR. Local civil works contractors would be allowed
a preference of 7-1/2%. Contracts for civil works or goods of less than
YRls 225,000 (US$50,000), but aggregating to not more than YRls 1,350,000
(US$300,000), would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with NWSA procedures which are acceptable to IDA.
The items financed by the Arab Fund and other external lenders (the water
supply component and the installation of sewers and sewage connections,
respectively) would be procured in accordance with their own guidelines.
Disbursements
41.       The proposed credit would be disbursed against:  (i) the full CIF
cost of all direct imports for the sewerage component; 85% of the cost of
locally procured imported equipment, or 100% of the ex-factory cost of local-
ly manufactured equipment and pipes for the sewerage component; (ii) the for-
eign exchange cost of consulting services for preparation of the feasibiity
studies for Ibb and Dhamar and for construction supervision of the sewerage
component; (iii) 60% of total expenditures on civil works construction and
installation of the sewage treatment plant and manholes in the sewer system;
and (iv) 100% of foreign expenditures on the technical assistance program to
the local construction industry. The closing date of the credit would be
June 30, 1982.
Financial Analysis
Present Situation
42.        NWSA's financial system is still in its early stage of implementa-
tion. Preliminary balance sheets and income statements were prepared for the
period ending June 30, 1975. In that period cash generated by the Sana'a
branch was not enough to cover the operating expenses of the head office,
which were financed by the Government. This situation will continue to pre-
vail until the end of FY1977 when part of the new water supply system fi-
nanced under Credit 464-YAR will be in operation and increased tariffs will
be in force. By that time, NWSA should be able to cover all its operating
and maintenance expenses including those of the head office, with revenues
of the branch offices.



- xiii -
43.        Since it initiated its operations in November 1974, NWSA has been
recording its financial operations on a cash basis. Revenues are credited
only after they are received, the concept of income earned being ignored in
the accounts. In compliance with the provisions of the agreement for the
first Sana'a Water Supply Project (Credit 464-YAR), NWSA commissioned a
Lebanese consulting firm, Deloitte, Haskins, Sells, Shair and Company to
design a new accounting system for NWSA. The consultants' proposals which
cover customer billing, collection and control, cost accounting and budget-
ing, were accepted by NWSA. The implementation of the accounting system in
the beginning was slow. However, NWSA has recently taken steps satisfactory
to the Association to ensure a speedy implementation of the system.
Tariffs
44.       A tariff study for Sana'a prepared by the same Lebanese consulting
firm, financed under Credit 464-YAR, has been completed, reviewed by the As-
sociation and approved by NWSA and the Government. The proposed tariff struc-
ture appears to be adequate and proper to the Sana'a situation. It provides
for a three-step tariff based on metered sales to make minimum domestic con-
sumption requirements available at a cost which is within the means of the
low-income population, and to promote a rational use of the scarce water re-
sources by levying higher tariffs on consumption in excess of basic needs.
Under the provisions of Credit 464-YAR, NWSA should have implemented this
tariff structure in 1975. However, because completion of the first Sana'a
water supply project has been delayed, the Association agreed to NWSA's re-
quest to postpone the implementation for January 1977 when water from the
new system will start providing improved services.
45.        Under the provisions of the credit agreement (559-YAR) for the
Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project, NWSA is committed to set, main-
tain, and periodically adjust water and sewerage tariffs in such a manner as
shall be necessary to realize a positive rate of return in 1978. From 1978
through 1984 the rate of return should gradually increase so as to reach in
1984 not less than 5% on NWSA's average net fixed assets properly valued, and
not less than 7-1/2% in 1987 and thereafter. It is recommended to keep this
covenant unchanged under the proposed credit.  Financial projections for the
project have been made on the assumption that adequate water and sewerage
rates will be implemented in the cities served by NWSA to produce the agreed
overall rates of return.
46.        During negotiations it was agreed that by December 31, 1978 the
Government will take all necessary measures to ensure that all water supply
customers provided with fronting sewers be required to connect to the sewerage
(Section 3.06, Draft Development Credit Agreement). To ensure that this
connection cost will not place an undue financial burden on low-income families.
agreement was reached that NWSA will give credit facilities to these families
(Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement).



- xiv -
Future Finances
47.       NWSA's financial structure and liquid position will change substan-
tially during the period of project implementation. By the end of 1981 the
year of project completion, its total assets will increase about 24 times,
from US$5.1 million in 1976 to US$123.5 million. By 1980 Government equity
will reach US$57.7 million, while long-term debt will rise from US$1.8 million
in 1976 to about US$45.7 million in 1980. The debt equity ratio will drop
from 1:1.5 in 1977 to about 1:1.3 by 1980 from where on it will stabilize
around 1:1.4 in the successive years. The ratio of current assets to current
liability will be less favorable during the construction period because of
the large investment program. To ensure an orderly development of NWSA's
financial structure during this period of rapid expansion, agreement was
reached that by March 31, 1977 NWSA will employ two experienced expatriate
financial experts for a period of not less than three years to advise its
staff, and that during the project execution it will annually review with the
Association its investment program and will agree to any reasonable modifica-
tions proposed by IDA (Sections 3.02 and 4.05, draft Project Agreement). In
addition, it was agreed that NWSA, prior to taking over any water supply or
sewer systems, will submit to the Association for its review and comments a
detailed program covering inter alia a description of the work program,
valuation of the existing systems, staffing needs and availability of staff,
working capital requirements, schedule of estimated capital expenditures and
their sources, terms and conditions (Section 3.04, draft Project Agreement).
48.       Under the provisions of the Project Agreement for Credit 464-YAR,
NWSA is committed to obtain the Association's concurrence before incurring
any long-term debt unless its net cash generation from operations provides
an average coverage of at least 1.5 tinies its maximum debt service. The
average debt service ratio forecast up to 1984 is 1.4. The only major in-
vestments projected by NWSA before 1984 are in Taiz. Any arrangement for
debt financing of the Taiz project would have to be made in consultation
with the Association.
Economic Benefits
49.       The project is essential to meet Sana'a's basic needs for safe water
over the next decade and to dispose adequately of sewage which at present
constitutes a source of contamination and water-borne diseases. The proposed
water supply project together with the first one will serve about 81% of the
city's 1980 population through direct connections. The remainder will be
served by easily accessible public taps. Adequate water supply will also
become available for commercial and industrial usages. The proposed sewerage
project will primarily benefit the low income population of whom the majority
live in the areas to be serviced with sewers. For the rest of the population,
the Government will build public conveniences and will give technical assis-
tance to homeowners who wish to construct septic tanks and other private
sewage disposal facilities. Both the proposed water supply and sewerage
components are the least cost solutions among several feasible alternatives.



- xv -
5(.        If net revenues from water sales and sewerage charges are taken as
benefits, the internal economic rate of return of the project would be 8.9%.
The rate of return would be 13.4% for the water supply component and 4.6% for
the sewerage. The rate of return is significantly sensitive to the levels of
water sales. Moderate increases in capital investments would not much affect
the expected return. Even in the unlikely event that a decrease of 20% in
water sales and an increase of 20% in the capital investments would occur,
the rate of return would be 4%, which is still acceptable considering the
project's unquantifiable social benefits. The full economic return on the
investments would be much higher if it were possible to quantify the impro-
vements of the environment and public health, which are not fully reflected
in the prices charged for water and sewerage services.
Risks
51.       The measures proposed to be taken in conjunction with the project,
such as the technical assistance to NWSA by expatriate advisors for finance,
training and construction supervision, the continuous review by the Associa-
tion of NWSA's financial situation and investment programs, and monitoring of
key indicators of progress (paragraph 33), will ensure that the risks in-
volved are minimized to the fullest extent possible.  NWSA is a relatively
young agency which is not yet adeqtuately staffed. However, an extensive
training program is under way and will continue during the next four years.
NWSA's financial stability through the extremely rapid growth period can be
considered assured, because of the willingness of the city's population to
pay for public services, the implementation of improved billing and collection
methods, and the provision of adequate water supply services.
Environmental Impact of the Project
52.        Provision of safe water to large segments of the urban poor should
help to reduce the incidence of water-horne diseases, provide better living
conditions in Sana'a and foster the cit:y's economic growth. Much of the popu-
lation after the project is completed will be provided with convenient ways
of eliminating wastewaters. Pollution of the aquifer will be greatly reduced,
thus, preserving the unique water supply source available to Sana'a.
Conclusion
53.        The Association's support for the project is fully justified be-
cause of YAR's urgent needs for equipping its capital city with basic infra-
structure such as water supply, sewerage and drainage. For centuries, the
Sana'a population has been drinking polluted water and deprived of adequate
sewage disposal facilities. The Government has no alternative but to proceed
with this project if better living conditions are to be offered in Sana'a.
The proposed credit will further assist the Government in its efforts to
strengthen the national water supply and sewerage authority (NWSA).



- xvi -
54.       To ensure the successful implementation of the project and the
financial viability of NWSA, certain basic conditions are attached to the
proposed credit. The Association has been assured that NWSA will give credit
facilities to low-income families for payment of their sewage connections,
and that the Government will carry out a program of construction of public
conveniences and other sanitation measures for the Sana'a population not to
be served with sewers under the proposed project. Foreign consultants will
assist NWSA's staff in construction supervision, sector planning, financial
management and identification of training needs. The Association will fur-
ther help the Government strengthen the national construction industry
through technical assistance and training. On the financial side, the Asso-
ciation has obtained assurances that NWSA's financial structure will not be
impaired by ill-timed investments, and for that purpose, NWSA will annually
review with the Association its investTnent program, and will not incur any
long-term debt without IDA's concurrence, unless it has adequate coverage of
its debt service. Finally, the Association has been assured that any addi-
tional funds needed for the Project will be made available by the Government
to NWSA.
55.       Conditions of effectiveness provided in Section 6.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement include (a) the execution and delivery of a sub-
sidiary Financing Agreement between the Government and NWSA with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association; and (b) the signing of loan
agreements between the Government and the Arab Fund for an amount of US$17.1
million and other external lenders for US$14.5 million.
November 18, 1976



CHAPTER I
THE WATER SUPPLY
AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
General
1.01      Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), located in the south-west corner of the
Arabian peninsula, occupies a largely mountainous area of 195,000 km2. It
is bordered on the north and northeast by Saudi Arabia, on the south and
southeast by the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and on the west by
the Red Sea. The country has three distinct geographical regions: (1) the
highlands, covering most of the interior; (2) the coastal plain, extending
about 70 km inland along the Red Sea; and (3) the eastern plateau which has a
desert climate and little vegetation (See Map IBRD-12285).
1.02      The first census ever carried out in YAR, held on February 1, 1975
put the population at 6.5 million with an annua;l growth rate estimated at
2.2%. More than 90% of this population are rural and directly engaged in
agriculture. In the urban side the following populations were established
for the 10 governorate centers:
Sana'a                  -                    134,588
Hodeida                 -                     80,314
Taiz                    -                     78,642
Dhamar                  -                     19,167
Ibb                     -                     19,066
Al Beida                -                      5,975
Hajja                   -                      5,813
Sada                    -                      4,252
Al Mahweet              -                      2,421
Mareb                   -                        292
350,530
This represents only 5.4% of the total population. The remainder live in
small scattered villages. The total number of communities identified by the
census was 31,681. Some unofficial reports have put the number of settlements
as high as 70,000. Most of the social and economic activities are concen-
trated in the three main cities of Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz. Sana'a is the
capital city; Hodeida, the port city and Taiz, the commercial center.
1.03      For centuries, Yemen Arab Republic was closed to outside commercial
and cultural exchanges. Basic urban infrastructure such as water supply,
sewerage and drainage still does not exist in Sana'a. The Government is now
making every effort to equip this city with adequate water supply and sewerage
services, and has requested the Association's technical expertise and finan-
cial assistance to help implement a sanitation program for Sana'a. This
program includes the provision of (i) water supply through private connections
to 81% of the expected 1980 population; (ii) public sewerage to 50% of this



- 2 -
population; (iii) water standpipes and individual sewage disposal systems
for the remaining population; and (iv) technical assistance to the national
construction industry.
1.04      The proposed project would be the Association's third operation in
the sector. Technical and economic studies for the project were financed with
a United Nations Development Program grant (UNDP - Project No. YEM/73/008) and
carried out by foreign consultants under the supervision of the World Health
Organization (WHO). The project was appraised in April 1976 by an IDA mission
composed of Messrs. W.J. Cosgrove, F. Rodriguez and J.H. Renkewitz. The total
cost of the project is estimated at US$45.8 million. An IDA credit of US$10
million to finance partly the sewerage component of the project is proposed.
Water Resources and Sewerage
1.05      The country relies solely on groundwater for its water supply as
there are no permanent sources of surface water. Some of the old river beds
have heavy flows during the summer rains, but none contains running water
throughout the year. There are springs in and around Sana'a and Taiz, but
they do not yield sufficient water to supply these cities. In most areas
the groundwater is moderately mineralized. In the highlands the alkalinity
and hardness are fairly high (250 to 450 mg/l), while in the coastal zone
the salt content is high (2,000 to 3,000 mg/l).
1.06      Presently, most of the people in YAR obtain their water supplies
from shallow wells. In some urban centers limited piped water supply is
provided by local cooperative organizations and private enterprises. The
villages and rural areas depend primarily on handdug wells. The existing
water supply facilities are inadequate, water shortages are widespread and
most wells, particularly hand-dug wells, are contaminated. Continual lowering
of the water table, due to limited recharge and increasing extraction for both
agricultural and domestic uses, is being experienced by many communities
particularly in the Sana'a area.
1.07      Hydrological studies have been undertaken for the main cities of
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida and potential groundwater sources to meet their long-
term requirements have been located. There are very limited hydrological data
available for the rest of the country. However, recent countrywide drilling
experiments indicate that water supplies for most of the rural communities can
be assured by deep boreholes reaching the underlying cretaceous sandstones
some 200-300 m below the ground surface.
1.08      There are no municipal sewage systems in YAR.  A very few institu-
tions and housing developments have wastewater systems. A sewage system for
Hodeida 1/ financed by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development is
now under construction and should be completed by the end of 1979.
1/   Report 773-YAR of June 3, 1975.



-3-
Sector Program
1.09      Feasibility studies of water supply and sewerage in the three
main urban centers, Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz, indicate that investments for
these projects (allowing for price escalation) may reach US$99.0 million by
1981. The following is an estimate of investment requirements in these three
cities through 1981, taking into account projects already under construction
and those urgently needed:
YRls Million   US$ Million
Water Supply in Sana'a                          111.0           24.7
Sewerage in Sana'a                              126.9           28.2
Water Supply in Hodeida                          35.8            8.0
Sewerage in Hodeida                             101.1           22.4
Water Supply and Sewerage in Taiz                70.6           15.7
Total                                 445.4            99.0
This program does not include any financial compensation for the existing
water supply systems, since the Government is expected to hand over the
installations to NWSA as a contribution.
1.10      The Government is also planning a series of feasibility studies
for water supply and sanitation in the fifteen largest remaining centers.
IDA has been requested to finance the studies for Ibb and Dhamar, the two
largest remaining centers, and USAID is considering financing the remainder
of the studies. No cost estimates have yet been prepared for these centers.
They will depend on the levels of service decided upon. As a first approxi-
mation, it is estimated that the costs might reach US$50.0 million.
1.11      A rural water development program is underway with assistance from
UNDP/WHO, UNICEF and bilateral agencies. With over 30,000 communities to
serve, the task is enormous. It is estimated that every year about 25
villages with populations ranging from 800-3,000 persons are equipped with
the minimum level of water service (well, service reservoir and public stand-
pipes). The per capita costs of these supplies range from $25 on UNICEF proj-
ects where the wells are relatively shallow and there is a high input of
volunteer labor, to $150 under a program being carried out by a foreign con-
tractor in difficult geological formations. Thus the total cost of supplying
the rural areas with water is probably in the order of US$550 million, of
which at least half would be required in foreign exchange.
The Government's Priorities in the Sector
1.12      The main problem which the Government faces in trying to accelerate
development in the sector is the paucity of trained engineers and technicians
to prepare projects and to build and operate the works. In determining its
priorities it was therefore essential for the Government to select projects
where the greatest impact could be made with the limited human resources



- 4 -
available. The Government has decided to give top priority to the three main
cities of Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz, because their concentration of population
in unsanitary living conditions makes them susceptible to serious outbreaks
of epidemic diseases, and this concentration makes it possible to use to a
maximum the limited human resources available.
1.13      Following this reasoning, the first major project selected by the
Government in the sector was a water supply system for Sana'a. This was
followed by a water supply system for Hodeida which was combined with YAR's
first sewerage project. The latter was needed because local physical condi-
tions made it otherwise impossible to satisfactorily dispose of the large
volumes of wastewater resulting from the high water consumption in the hot and
humid climate of Hodeida. The first census revealed that the population of
Sana'a and its rate of growth were greater than estimated by the consultants
who prepared the original Sana'a water supply project so that an expansion
of the ongoing project became necessary to satisfy the expected demands. A
first stage of sewerage is also planned for the highly densely populated areas
of Sana'a where narrow streets and unfavorable soil conditions make other
alternative forms of water disposal impossible. A similar water supply and
sewerage project is being planned for Taiz.
1.14      While proceeding with the urban projects, the Government has not
neglected the rural sector. However, it must rely for the time being on the
limited available expatriate technical assistance to carry out the rural water
supply program and therefore slow progress is being made in handling the most
urgent situations almost on a case by case basis.
Sector Organization
1.15      The Ministry of Public Works and Municipalities (MPWM) is responsible
for planning and executing all Government projects in the sector. In order to
make the most efficient use of its limited technical manpower resources in
striving to achieve its priority objectives, the Government in November 1973
established the National Water and Sewerage Authority (NWSA), to be responsible
for the planning, execution and operation of those water supply and sewer
systems in urban centers designated by the Government. A subsequent decree
specified that NWSA will take over any system for which long-term borrowing
is foreseen.
1.16      In November 1974, NWSA took over the operation of the Sana'a water-
works previously owned and operated by the Sana'a Cooperative, incorporating
the waterworks staff of the Cooperative into its own organization. An agree-
ment signed with the Hodeida Port Authority in March 1976 provided for the
takeover of the Hodeida water supply system by NWSA from the Port Authority
effective April 1, 1976. The John F. Kennedy Memorial Water Supply System in
Taiz, the first public network built in YAR and financed by USAID is operated
by the Taiz Cooperative Organization. The few piped water supply systems
in the remaining centers are operated by local authorities and cooperatives.
Additional transfers to NWSA will be delayed until it is adequately organized
and staffed.



- 5 -
1.17      The Rural Water Supply Division of MPWM was established in 1972
to be responsible for planning and constructing rural water systems and for
coordinating external assistance for such projects. The Division is headed
by a Deputy Minister and is composed of a small staff of local technicians
assisted by a UNDP/WHO Project Team composed of one WHO sanitary engineer and
three UNDP volunteers (five volunteer posts are authorized).
Financing Needs
1.18      To serve the total present population, it is estimated that require-
ments for investments in urban water supply and sewerage would amount to
US$149.0 million, and in rural water supply, to US$550 million (paras 1.09-
1.11). Severe budget constraints limit the investments the Government can
make in the sector, and progress in implementing its programs will depend on
the support given by external agencies. Until now financing has been found
for all projects which the Government has been able to prepare with its limited
technical resources. As more trained Yemeni engineers and technicians become
available, the constraint on project preparation and operation and maintenance
will be gradually removed.
1.19      Some of the projects designed by the UNDP Project team for the Rural
Water Supply Division of MPWM have already been built with materials supplied
by UNICEF. Some donor countries have provided funds in trust to UNICEF, such
as a contribution of $810,000 from the Federal Republic of Germany. The
Netherlands made a grant of one million guilders (US$365,000) to finance 12
water supply systems in the Dhamar area. A grant of US$3.0 million from Abu
Dhabi was used by the Government to acquire drilling equipment. USAID is
using this equipment to carry out a village water supply program and to pro-
vide training for well drillers and related technicians. Saudi Arabia is
financing an ongoing program designed to build 36 water supply systems to
serve about 120 villages, at a cost of approximately US$13.6 million. IDA
provided US$1.8 million for rural water supply under the Southern Uplands
Rural Development Project.
Performance under Previous IDA Lending
1.20      An IDA credit (464-YAR) in the amount of US$6.25 million for the
Sana'a water supply project became effective on July 15, 1974. Delays by the
consultants preparing the tender documents originally set back project con-
struction by nearly one year. Contracts amounting to US$10.3 million and
covering all of the project works except house connections which will be
carried out by force account, have been awarded. To meet anticipated cost
overruns, the Government has agreed to contribute an additional amount of
US$3.5 million as an equity contribution to NWSA. Delivery of most materials
has now been completed. However, difficulties have arisen as regards the
performance of the local contractor carrying out the civil works and pipe
installation. The appraisal mission in April 1976 found that the contractor
was falling behind schedule and that the quality of his work was unacceptable,
but the supervising consultants stated that the situation was improving.



- 6 -
A supervision mission in late August 1976 found that most of the works con-
structed were not acceptable to NWSA and its consultants and that at the
present pace it would take several years to complete the contract which was
originally scheduled to be completed by the end of 1977. However, the local
civil works contractor has recently entered into a joint venture with an ex-
perienced British contracting firm, Lilley International. According to the
agreement, the prime responsibility for completing the works is with the
British contractor. It is expected that through this arrangement both
quality and progress of the works will improve substantially.
1.21      Credit 545-YAR for the Southern Uplands and Rural Development was
approved by the Board on May 6, 1975. This credit which finances part of the
cost of village water supply schemes within the rural project area, estimated
to cost US$1.8 million, became effective on January 27, 1976. In June 1975,
an IDA credit of US$8.1 million (559-YAR) was approved to finance the water
supply component of the Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project. Parallel
financing of the sewerage component is provided by a US$20.2 million loan
from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development. This credit became
effective on December 29, 1975. Final design of the works is progressing
well. The first contract has been awarded for the drilling of test and pro-
duction wells. Tenders have also been received for the supply of materials
and for the first civil works. It is expected that contracts for all the
works will be awarded by the end of 1977, as originally forecast during
appraisal.
IDA's Objectives for the Sector
1.22      IDA financing of the proposed Sana'a project would assist the Gov-
ernment in achieving its logical priority objective of making maximum impact
with limited human resources, and of reducing the risks of outbreaks of epi-
demic diseases in the nation's largest city. The objectives of the project
are:
(a) to provide adequate water supply services to at least
81% of the expected 1980 population in Sana'a;
(b) to install public sewer pipelines to serve 50% of the
city's 1980 population;
(c) to ensure an orderly development of the city through the
implementation of an appropriate urbanization plan and
plumbing code;
(d) to help the Government form qualified engineers and tech-
nicians for the proper operation of water supply and sewer
systems in the country; and
(e) to organize and develop NWSA into a competent and finan-
cially viable authority.



- 7 -
1.23      As long as other international lending institutions are looking
after the rural sector, the Association should continue to concentrate its
efforts in the urban sector. USAID intends to finance the water supply and
sewerage works programmed for Taiz.  The Government's next priority is to
provide water supply services in the intermediate cities. The Association
should show its support for this priority by financing the feasibility studies
for Ibb and Dhamar.






50'         50'Ai\t'  ' R   y st                             44-                                                                                                       IBRD-12285
SOt *-sIRAA  <,  RAN    'eO    2                                                                          YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
'< ' scasNoU>-fR'L.7'           <S A U D I    A R A b I A
""'                                           OsoasUNAIT-t  \DhrzEon           SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
o I L wX PROJECT
susan C ~~~~~~~ 'V  5/  ' <i"'       5< ~~~~~~~~~~~0                                               Proiect Locatior
ojnirAoF r'Oe                                                   """ ,,  r     ,                                      Posed Primory Roads
(F .0,6                          "                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr-mary Roods Under Constructoro
10°AH ETHiDr l A ASA 'z-   'l \ooo.a                                        t                                                      E -  -         -Other Roads
_          _SOMAL/                           4    ffi           5                            l z   -                  @        Ncrmsof I Copatal
X j ( (S t iX ~~~~~~D       A                         H              ,            )C  Ws Towns  cnd V,11.ges
linen  2                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wadis
l-oI<>/\  .   ) 1                    :>,Soodos             .  --' 2700-     Contours in Meters
K \  ' \  7 < 0    |   \  /                -                     *       International  Airoorts
N <   2  \   o)  I \  t \   t   N       .         Provinciol Boundories
-  !\    ---    Interoaionol  Bounda,ies
j k  Horl                             
ra>o                   \> r-ii P       I   I i   (~24            
0      20      '50      60      tOC     100
( Abs __  h     A     C J   J   AF \       h; r             ,,                                                        KILOMETERS                             16
MILSES
'-'5<'XR r 
HEdvu  A  Jf Raym _9U0}             < )51 A c N             >           f
'¢ ~ ~~~~~~~ 0J)                                         .                                                   3ElDAb-/,.
0 ia4 K                                                                                           L    -         -          a _          '                                        4)
<                                      §  >Q\Mabbna X    V  j4~~~~~~9t         '    PEOPLE'S   DEMOCRATIC   REPUBLIC   OP   YEMEN
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 0Q05O 050500550,  G0\0
.O      ,,0      R
E~~~~~~~~~~~ TR  E I                                                                                                       D PA  /   
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POL'     DEORAI                                                                    REPUBLI        OF   Y E MEN
/   F.T.A.I.       t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_  i                                  )                        4#   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gew~~~~~*                                                         416~~~Y1






-9-
CHAPTER 2
THE BENEFICIARY
Introduction
2.01      The Borrower will be the Government of Yemen Arab Republic.  The
proposed credit would be on-lent to NWSA on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association. In March 1974, NWSA received the proceeds of an IDA
credit of US$6.25 million made available to Yemen Arab Republic for the first
phase of a water supply project in Sana'a. In June 1975, another IDA credit
of US$8.1 million was given to the Government, out of which US$7.9 million
was earmarked for a water supply and sewerage project in Hodeida. Construc-
tion started on the first credit (464-YAR) in late 1975. Designs and bidding
are being prepared for the second credit (559-YAR).
Organization and Management
2.02      NWSA was established in November 1973 as an autonomous agency with
complete financial accountability, for providing water supply and wastewater
services in the urban areas designated by the Government. The law establish-
ing NWSA provides for the takeover of existing water supply systems in Sana'a,
Hodeida, Taiz and in other towns, subject however, to the issuing of Government
decrees authorizing such takeovers. Further legislation provides that NWSA
will takeover all water supply and sewer systems for which borrowing is re-
quired. Formal transfer of the Sana'a water supply system to NWSA became
effective in November 1974, and that of the Hodeida water supply system, in
April 1976. It is unlikely that NWSA will take over the operations in Taiz
before mid 1977.
2.03      NWSA's organizational structure is shown in Fig. 2.1.  Its organiza-
tion is fairly decentralized with branch offices dealing with the day to day
operations while the scarce managerial and technical skills are concentrated
in the head office located in Sana'a, where they can effectively plan new
works and supervise the activities of consultants and the operations of the
branches.
2.04      NWSA is managed by a Board of seven members consisting of the
Minister of Public Works as Chairman, the Deputy Minister of Public Works as
Vice-Chairman, the Deputy Minister of Treasury, the Director General of NWSA,
the head of Municipal Affairs, and two representatives of the private sector.
The Board is responsible to the Council of Ministers whose approval is required
for establishing or changing water and sewerage rates, and other charges such
as connection fees. Borrowings by NWSA from sources other than the Government
are subject to the approval of the Council of Ministers and the Consultative
Assembly. The Director General is responsible to the Board for NWSA's per-
formance. Reporting directly to him are the five departments of Administra-
tion, Finance, Engineering, Operations and Procurement. The branch offices
report to the Director General through a coordinating Operations Manager who
provisionally fulfills the function of Deputy Director General.



- 10 -
Personnel
2.05      At the time of appraisal, NWSA had a total of 150 staff members of
which 25 were at headquarters, 85 in the Sana'a branch and 40 in the Hodeida
branch. Since July 1, 1975 the Government has been making budgetary alloca-
tions available to NWSA for supplementing staff salaries, thus trying to
achieve more competitiveness with the private industry. Once NWSA's revenues
will be sufficient to cover its operations, including payroll and maintenance
costs, which should be achieved by July 1977, those allocations will be
stopped. NWSA will then be able to decide on a salary scale of its own which
should offer compensation comparable to that of the private industry.
2.06      Continuing efforts are being made to adequately staff NWSA's head
office and branches, particularly in the senior positions. Two foreign
trained Yemeni sanitary engineers were recruited for the technical positions.
However, the recruitment of experienced professionals for financial positions
has not been so successful. An acting Director of Finance was engaged by
NWSA on March 1, 1976. He was subsequently replaced by an expatriate who was
hired as accounting adviser, and is now acting as Financial Manager. The
position of head of the Procurement Department and that of the Internal
Auditor are still vacant.
2.07      In view of the present scarcity of accounting and financial experts
in YAR, it is imperative that NWSA be assisted by expatriate financial advisors
in the next three years. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
NWSA will recruit by March 31, 1977 two experienced expatriate financial ad-
visors, one for the head office and the other for the Sana'a branch, for a
period of not less than three years.
2.08      Because of the rapid growth forecast for NWSA, it is possible that
its staff might become overstretched. Agreement was therefore reached during
negotiations that NWSA will, prior to taking over or assuming responsibility
for any additional water supply or sewerage facilities, submit to the Asso-
ciation for its review and comments, a detailed program covering inter alia
a description of the work program, valuation of the existing facilities,
staffing needs and availability of staff, working capital requirements,
schedule of estimated capital expenditures and their sources, terms and
conditions. The existing project agreements for Credits 464 and 559-YAR
commit NWSA to consult with IDA before any changes in its organizational
structure and its senior personnel.
Training
2.09      A basic short-term training program for NWSA's personnel is under-
way with the assistance and financing of UNDP through WHO. The determination
of long-term training needs had to await the preliminary results of NWSA's
recruitment drive at home and abroad. It is now known that few qualified
professionals are available in YAR, and that NWSA will have to implement and
administer a training program to provide personnel for all of its operational
aspects. In consultation with the appraisal mission, NWSA prepared a fore-
cast of its 1980 staffing requirements for both the head office and branches.
Those requirements were then compared with present NWSA personnel to deter-
mine the needs for recruitment and training.



- 11 -
2.10      The estimated cost of the training needs and technical assistance
to NWSA is $2,325,000, excluding the salaries of trainees payable in local
currency and costs of training in local establishments. Under the Hodeida
Water Supply and Sewerage Project, IDA provided $200,000 and the Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development allocated US$925,000 for training and
technical assistance. The estimated cost of technical assistance alone up
to 1980 is U$500,000. Thus an additional sum of $1,200,000 will be needed
for training. This additional cost would be financed by the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID).
2.11      Training of NWSA's personnel is essential for the success of its
operations. The large number of employees to be recruited and the variety of
training involved will make it necessary to utilize the services of a full-
time training advisor. In addition, more evalution of NWSA's staff recruit-
ment and training needs will havewto be carried out in the future.  NWSA's
staff will be fully occupied with the operation of the systems, and because of
the great extent and complexity of the program, it would be prudent to appoint
an expatriate advisor. Therefore, during negotiations, assurances were ob-
tained that by July 1, 1977 NWSA will engage the services of a full-time
training officer acceptable to IDA, for a period of not less than two years.
Meanwhile, NWSA should begin implementing its training program, utilizing the
services of the training co-ordinator of the Central Planning Office (CPO).
Billing and Collection
2.12      NWSA's customers are presently billed monthly for a fixed charge.
Because of frequent interruption of services, consumption is not actually
metered. At present, different charges for domestic or commercial usage are
levied on the connections. The customers pay their bills at the branches'
cashiers. If a bill is not paid within three months of its submission, the
service is disconnected. However, the records showed that some customers
continued to be billed for a service which was long disconnected. Accounts
receivable represent 3-1/2 months of annual water sales, which is not too bad
considering the present poor level of service. Some of the receivables will
have to be written off.
2.13      Before the existing and new customers are connected to the new water
distribution network, they will be asked to pay a deposit that could cover at
least NWSA's bills for three months of service.
Accounting Practices and Procedures
2.14      NWSA started its operations in November 1974.  Preliminary balance
sheet and income statements as of June 30, 1975 were prepared for the appraisal.
Although the present accounting system has improved from that of a simple cash
basis to one which distinguishes between expenses and assets, much still
remains to be done.
2.15      The financial needs of NWSA - capital and operations - are formulated
in annual budgets which are to be approved by its Board of Directors and the
Council of Ministers. Since NWSA does not have revenues sufficient to cover



- 12 -
the expenses of its head office, these are still being funded by the Govern-
ment. NWSA is expected to be able to meet all its expenses by the beginning
of FY 1978. The branches carry their own accounts, and process all their
financial transactions. The branches' present accounting system shows con-
siderable weaknesses. Budgeting and cost accounting is non-existent.
2.16      In compliance with the provisions of the agreement for the Sana'a
Water Supply Project (Credit 464-YAR), a new accounting system has been
designed for NWSA by a Lebanese consulting firm, Deloitte Haskins Sells Shair
& Co. Customer billing, collection and control, financial and cost accounting
and budgeting are part of this system, which was finalized in October 1975,
and approved later by NWSA. In spite of the urgency for NWSA to improve its
accounting procedures, the implementation of the new system was slow in the
beginning. However, NWSA has recently taken appropriate actions that will
ensure a speedy implementation of the system.
Audit
2.17      External auditing of NWSA is conducted by a Government office, the
"Central Organization for Control and Auditing" which reports to the Office of
the President of YAR. Apart from auditing income and expenditures, this audit
establishes whether or not all relevant laws and pertinent administrative and
financial regulations are properly followed by NWSA. However, the degree of
independence of this office appears to be inadequate. Under the existing
project agreements for Credits 464 and 559-YAR, the first annual audit of
NWSA's financial statements has been carried out by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association.
2.18      As part of the new accounting system (paragraph 2.16), an internal
audit department reporting to the Director General will be set up.
Insurance
2.19     The absence of responsible insurers in Yemen Arab Republic has
delayed the acquisition by NWSA of adequate insurance, as required under
the existing project agreements. A new insurance company has been recently
established in YAR, and negotiations are underway to obtain appropriate
insurance coverage.
Taxes
2.20      Under existing legislation NWSA is required to collect on its sales
a 3% "stamp tax" that should be turned to the Government. As the National
Electrical Corporation has been exempted to collect this tax by claiming that
it renders a public service, NWSA has requested the same treatment for its
sales.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SANA'A WATER SUPPLY II AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
FIG. 2-1 ORGANIZATION CHART
D   LEGAL ADVISOR                DIVISION
CONTROLLERS ~ ~ ~     ~~                BAR SEREARA
D I RECTO RS
PUBLIC RELATIONS            C
|  INTERNAL AUDII                                                    D EXPATRIATE
ADVISORS
GENERAL (TECHNICAL
[ PERSONAL SECRETARY                                                  R & FINANCIAL)
PROCUREMENT  FINANCE  ADMINISTRATIVE     TECHNICAL                                              OPERATIONS
MANAG E R       ~~MANAG ER        MANAG ER                MANAG ER                                               MANAGE R
ACCOUNTING      _     ]PERSONNEL                  G  
l   IDIVISION            ISON   DIVISION                            SANA,'A              HODEIDA             TA'IZZ                UUR    
(DIVISION     E~~SECRETARIAT        l    EIN                    BRANC                BRANAGE             MANAGERI                          I       
1   1   n   DIVISION
_| STAtIONERY                tWlO BAN
DIVISION            SPRION   l                TRE           SFVVERAGE   ||WATER SUPPLY    BRANCH             |     COUNTINGj
1 |DTIVISIDN            DIVISION  ||DIVISION            ADIDVMIsN>SNTRATION    DVSION
|NETWORK     || DISTRIBUTION L]|ACCOUNTING   |
SECTION          SYSECtOM    r                       SECTION     r
| S ECTO N  9tH EA DWO RKS                           LECT-ON
World Bank 16304



- 14 -
CHAPTER 3
DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
Present Production and Consumption
3.01      There are no records relating to the water production and consump-
tion in Sana'a. Present water supply is derived from numerous hand-dug
shallow wells whose production is unmetered and erratic. Most wells serve one
or a few dwellings and operate from 2 to 12 hours depending on the number of
houses served and their storage capacity. The recharging rate of the aquifer
is slower than present extraction resulting in a steady drop of the water
table in the wells which have to be deepened continuously. To maintain the
same production, well pumps must be very often shifted or substituted. Many
wells have dried up in recent years or have been abandoned, because of their
high operating and maintenance costs.
3.02      Before the creation of NWSA, the Sana'a Development Board was the
only public utility operating a small water system with about 2,000 house
connections. It was estimated that another 2,500 households were served by
systems connected to private wells. Public buildings, industrial and commer-
cial dwellings have generally their own wells. Mosques apart from supplying
their own needs, give their excess water free to the public through stand-
pipes. The remaining households get their supply from public points of sale
or directly from water vendors.
3.03      Present domestic consumption in Sana'a is estimated at 6,780 m3/day
or 48 lpcd. This low consumption is attributed to actual difficulties in
water production and to a lack of adequate sewerage facilities. The only
major industrial consumer in Sana'a is a textile factory which uses about
1,300 m3/day. The factory has its own water supply facilities, but will be
connected to the public system once it is put in operation.
Population Forecast
3.04      Estimated midyear populations in the years 1976 through 1985 are
shown in Table 3-1 and Fig. 3-1. They are based on the only census ever made
in Yemen Arab Republic, and carried out in February 1975. The growth rate of
Sana'a's population is expected to decrease from a present high of 6% to about
4.8% by 1985 and 3.9% by 2,000. The population is forecast to increase from
about 142,000 in July 1976 to 226,000 by 1985.
3.05      Present population densities in Sana'a vary widely, from less than
50 inhabitants/ha in the city's outskirts to more than 500 inhabitants/ha in
the old city. Except in the highest densely populated areas where urban
settlement is over 400 inhabitants/ha, other population densities are pro-
jected to increase progressively. It is forecast that the city will cover
an area of about 1,500 ha by 1985.



- 15 -
Forecast of Consumption
3.06      There are presently about 8,000 house water connections but only few
receive a reasonable supply. The production facilities and transmission pipe-
line to the city being constructed under the first project will be in operation
by March 1977 and the supply conditions will substantially improve. By July
1977 about 9,000 connections would be served by the new water network. Per
capita daily consumption is projected to increase to 89 liters by that year.
3.07      Forecasts of water consumption and production in the next 10 years
are shown in Table 3-1 and Figure 3-2. Per capita daily consumption is assumed
to increase from 89 liters in 1977 to 137 liters by 1985, including provision
for industrial use by the textile factory and other light manufacturers. About
45% of the city's population would be served by direct connections in 1977;
it would reach 81% by 1980, in which year about 24,000 dwellings would be
connected to the public water system. All the connections will be metered
and unaccounted-for water is forecast to be no more than 20% of total produc-
tion. The maximum day demand is projected to be 10% more than the yearly
average demand; the maximum hour demand is forecast to be 40% more than the
maximum dav demand.
3.08      The proposed project would have the capacity to cover the city's
water supply needs up to 1985. It is not anticipated that the projected
tariffs (from YRls 2.0/m3 in FY1978 to YRls 2.4/m3 in FY1980) will signi-
ficantly affect the levels of consumption.
3.09      The sewerage would become operative in 1981 and would serve about
50% of the population through 8,700 house connections. This percentage
would increase to 55% by 1985 in which year 11,700 individual houses and
buildings would be connected to the sewer system. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that by December 31, 1978 the Government will take the
measures necessary to ensure that those water customers with sewerage facili-
ties available to them, be required to connect to the sewer system, and that
NWSA will give credit facilities to low-income customers in Sana'a to help
them meet the cost of connecting to the sewer system.



Table 3-1    Forecast of Population and Water Consumption
Water Supply                        Water Consumption 10' x W'/Year                                              SeveraRe
Total        Population  % Population   Number of                                                       Poduc; ion          Number of    Population  % Population
F.Y.    Population       Connected      Served     Connections       Domestic  Industrial   Public  Total         10 xNMeyear          Connections    Connected     Connected
1976     141,900          54,000         38.1         9,000              985         766      1,037   2,788           3,485                   -              -           -
1977     150,100          67,200         44.8         9,700            1,226         947        908   3,081           3,851                   -              -           -
1978     158,600          72,000         45.4        12,000            1,498       1,731        948  4,177            5,221                   -              -           -
1979    167,300          108,000         64.6        18,000            2,483       1,926        649   5,058           6,322                   -              -           -
1980     176,400         144,000         81.6        24,000            3,627       2,117        355   6,099           7,624                   -              -           -
1981     185,700         154,800         83.4        25,800            4,238       2,297        338   6,873           8,591               8,745         92,107        49.6
1982     195,400         165,000         84.4        27,500            4,878       2,474        333   7,685           9,606               9,455         99,590        51.0
1983     205,300         177,000         86.2        29,500            5,556       2,646        310   8,512          10,640              10,165        107,070        52.2
1984     215,500         189,000         87.7        31,500            6,278       2,843        290   9,411          11,764             10,875         114,546        53.2
1985     226,000         201,000         88.9        33,500            7,043       3,053        274  10,370          12,962              11,725        123,500        54.6
May 19, 1976



17
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
FIG. 3-1 POPULATION FORECASTS
1000r
:.I  ~                _              __        _
U,~~~~~~~~~~L
z
I-I 
: 10                                                                                                        1  0
o                                                                                                               90
-J                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~80
ACTUAL CONNECATIONS
70
60
50
ACTUAL  FORECT _                                                                      :
10                                                                              1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 z
1972    ~ 1974           1976           1978           1980           1982           1984          1986
NWSA's FISCAL YEARS
World Bank-1 6262



1.8
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
FIG. 3-2 FORECAST OF WATER CONSUMPTION AND CONNECTIONS
304
204                                                                      ------- 
C-I                                                                                                I
20'
C
.~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T{ Ej,
104
12                                     -------SE
=~~~~~~~POOE SEON WATEATRR
i: 6S|UPPLY PR JE.CT 
NWSAs FICAL REVISE
MAXIMUM                       sank-16260
CL                                0
24XI06
127                   PR9POSE9SECO982WA9ER
NWSA's FISCAL YEAR
CI)                                                     -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol    B n -6 6



- 19 -
CHAPTER 4
THE PROJECT
Existing Facilities
4.01      The present water supply situation in Sana'a is highly unsatis-
factory. The city's population is supplied with water from more than 300
individual shallow wells which are located within the city's limits and
subject to pollution from seepage pits and septic tanks, and whose water
level continues to drop steadily due to over extraction of the aquifer. As
a result of this situation, the city has been experiencing acute water short-
ages and health hazards. About 60% of the population get water from their
own wells which serve one or a few buildings. The remaining 40% obtain their
supply from water vendors and public standpipes in mosques. The distribu-
tion system is rudimentary, divided between the'various dwellings served by
each group of wells. Depending on their location, some houses receive water
for 2 hours daily, others only for 15 minutes.
4.02      To locate a reliable water source and install an adequate supply
system, the Government in 1971 requested UNDP assistance for the preparation
of a water supply project for Sana'a. This project is now being constructed
and financed under an IDA Credit* (464-YAR) of US$6.25 million. At the time
the project was appraised, no census was ever made in Yemen, and Sana'a's
population was estimated at 90,000 on the basis of a sample. However, the
results of a census conducted in February 1975 showed that the population
was about 130,000. The proposed project is to serve the 40,000 people and
higher growth rates not forecast under the first project. Good progress has
been accomplished in the execution of the first project which would be par-
tially operative by March 1977.
4.03      Sana'a has no sewerage; older dwellings use seepage pits while
the more recent ones usually have septic tanks. Very often sewage is simply
dispersed on the ground and rapidly reaches the aquifer from which drinking
water is extracted. A high level of fecal contamination exists in most wells
and water is consumed without prior disinfection. Night soil in the old city
is removed manually and used to heat water for public baths. There is no
storm drainage in the city.
Scope of the Project
4.04      The proposed project would consist of extending the water supply
scheme now being built, and of constructing the first phase of a sanitary
sewerage master plan covering the city's needs up to the year 2000. The
*    See Report No. 287a-YAR of January 14, 1974 and Development Credit
Agreement 464-YAR of March 4, 1974.



- 20 -
objectives of the project are to provide 81% of the city's population forecast
for 1980 with adequate volumes of water of reliable quality through private
connections, and the remainder through public standpipes. The sewerage would
first serve 50% of the population, mostly the poorest living in the old city
where no private systems of sewage disposal can be used because of lack of
land.
4.05      All water connections would be metered and since the distribution
system would be new made, unaccounted-for water is projected to reach no more
than 20% of water produced. Some 80% of water used is expected to return to
the sewers, which will be equipped with special openings for flushing and
cleaning purposes to reduce the generation of hydrogen sulfide and the result-
ing corrosion of the pipes. The wastewaters will be treated in stabilization
lagoons whose effluent will be used for irrigation.
4.06      The groundwater supply source selected is the closest to the city,
and undoubtedly the most economical way to meet the city's medium term water
demands. The sewerage project is the least cost solution to collect and
dispose of sewage from the most critical parts of the city. Various sewage
treatment alternatives were considered and compared, using discount rates of
6% to 12%. Consideration was also given to the limitations in local technical
operational capability. The choice of stabilization ponds was further justi-
fied because of their relatively easy operation. NWSA has taken the necessary
steps to acquire the land which would be needed to accomodate the stabiliza-
tion ponds designed to serve the anticipated population in year 2000.
Project Description
4.07      The principal elements of the water supply and sewerage components
are illustrated on Maps IBRD-12286 and 12287. The major project components
are as follows:
A. Water Supply
(i) Construction and Equipment of 10 wells with a total capacity
of 200 l/s;
(ii)  Installation of well header and transmission pipeline to con-
vey water to the headworks;
(iii)  Purchase and installation of booster pumps at the headworks
to increase the pumping capacity by 150 lls;
(iv)  Construction of a storage reservoir with a capacity of
10,000 m3;
(v) Supply and laying of distribution pipes;
(vi)  Supply and installation of 18,000 connections and 50 public
taps;



- 21 -
(vii) Purchase of laboratory equipment; and
(viii) Consulting services for project design and construction
supervision.
B. Sewerage
(a) Laying of sewers and sewage collectors in the most densely
populated areas;
(b) Installation of 8,700 connections and supply of sewer main-
tenance equipment;
(c) Construction of stabilization ponds with a capacity of 65,000
m3/day and an average detention time of 25 days;
(d) Construction and equipment of raw sewage and final effluent
pumping stations; and
(e) Consulting services for construction supervision.
C.   Preparation of feasibility studies and reports on water
supply and sewerage in two medium cities, Ibb and Dhamar.
D. Assistance to YAR Construction Industry
(1) Technical assistance to Administration officials in
forecasting construction industry needs and training in
preparation of tender documents, bidding procedures and
contract supervision;
(2) Training of local contractors; and
(3) Overseas construction training for graduate Yemeni civil
engineers.
Cost Estimates
4.08      The estimated total cost of the project is YRls 205.9 million
(US$45.8 million). Foreign exchange costs would amount to US$28.1 million
or 61.5% of the total expenditures. The cost estimates are detailed in Table
4-1.  They are based on quantity take-offs from preliminary design plans and
unit costs of similar works now under execution.



- 22 -
Table 4-1   Estimated Costs of the Project Components
Item                             Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
----YRls Thousand -----    -----US'$ Thousand-
A. Water Supply Component
Construction of wells              650    5,870   6,520       144     1,305   1,449
Well field collector             1,130    2,850   3,980       251       633      884
Additional pumps                    30       300     330        7         66      73
Storage reservoir                  300       700   1,000       67       155      222
Distribution System              9,030   16,270  25,300   2,007       3,615   5,622
House connections and            1,660    5,540   7,200       369     1,231   1,600
Public Taps
Electrical work                     40      310      350        9        69       78
Water Quality Laboratory            20       210     230        4         47      51
B. Sewerage Component
Land aquisition                  2,475      -      2,475      550       -        550
Treatment plant                  1,854    7,395   9,249       412     1,643   2,055
Sewer System                    15,964   34,518  50,482   3,547       7,671  11,218
House connections                2,771    7,416  10,187       616     1,648   2,264
Maintenance equipment                2       448     450      -          100     100
Studies for Ibb and Dhamar         180       720     900       40       160      200
C. Assistance to Construc-
tion Industry                450    1,800   2,250       100        400     500
Sub-Total                 36,556   84,347 120,903   8,123    18,743  26,866
D. Construction Supervision    2,480    7,784  10,264         551     1,730   2,281
E. Physical Contingencies        5,389   12,274  17,663   1,197       2,728   3,925
F. Price Escalation             34,938   22,164  57,102   7,764       4,925  12,689
TOTAL PROJECT COST        79,363  126,569 205,932  17,635    28,126  45,761
4.09      The cost estimates are based on construction price levels prevailing
in September 1976. A 15% allowance for physical contingencies was added to
the base costs. Construction supervision is estimated at 7% of the construc-
tion cost. To provide for price escalation during the project execution,
annual inflation rates of 25% until 1980 and 10% thereafter have been assumed
for local expenditures; for foreign expenditures, the rates are forecast to be
9% in 1976, 8% in 1977 through 1979, and 7% thereafter. The estimated rates
of inflation appear appropriate for the project and are projected on the
assumption that present trends of cost increases on similar works would hold
in the next five years. The disparity between domestic and foreign inflation



- 23 -
rates could lead to a gradual increase of the exchange rate of the Yemeni Rial
to leading international currencies. However, this is not expected because
of high remittances of Yemenis working abroad, which have resulted since 1970
in increasing foreign exchange reserves.
Financing of the Project
4.10      Table 4-2 shows the estimated costs (including all contingencies) of
the project components divided into five groups, together with their sources
of financing.
Table 4-2   Sources of Financing for the Project
Group                           Local    Foreign    Total            Financing
--Cost in US$ Thousand---   Source            Amount
A. Water Supply Elements        6,192      10,866   17,058   Arab Fund          17,058
B. Installation of Sewer
Pipes and Sewage House                                   Other
Connections                7,276       7,260   14,536       Cofinancier  14,536
C. Sewage Treatment Plant,
Sewer Pipe Supply,
Ianholes, Construction
Supervision of the                                       IDA               9,440
Sewerage component         4,027       9,440   13,467   Government         4,027
D. Feasibility Studies for                                     IDA                 160
Ibb and Dhamar                40         160       200   Government           40
E. Assistance to local                                         IDA                 400
Construction Industry        100         400       500   Government          100
Total
TOTAL                     17,635      28,126   45,761   Financing         45,761
4.11      The project would be financed by (i) the proposed IDA Credit of
US$10.0 million; (ii) an expected loan of US$17.1 million from the Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development; (iii) another loan of US$14.5 million
from other external sources; and (iv) a Government contribution of US$4.2
million.
4.12      If the project is to be completed at greater costs than the estimates,
the Government would be expected to meet the overruns. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Government will arrange to provide funds as
needed for the project, including those made necessary by any cost overruns.
In the event that costs are lower than estimated, resulting in total disburse-
ments less than the anount of the proposed credit, the Association would
consider using the balance to finance the installation of additional sewers
in Sana'a.



- 24 -
Project Implementation
4.13      Final designs and bid documents for the water supply and sewerage
components are being prepared by a British consulting firm, Howard Humphreys
and Sons, whose selection was approved by IDA. Bidding of the major project
items will start in January 1977. Both components would be physically com-
pleted by the end of 1980, but the credit and loans would be fully disbursed
by the end of 1981. The estimated annual investments during the construction
period are given in Table 4-3. A bar chart of the work program is shown in
Figure 4-1. The implementation schedule was discussed during negotiations
and found acceptable by the YAR delegation.
Table 4-3   Annual Project Investments in YRls Thousands
Group                       1976      1977      1978     1979      1980     Total
A. Water Supply              -       9,564   26,839   19,262   21,103    76,768
B. Installation of
Sewers and Sewage
Connections              -         -     18,034   30,858   16,521    65,413
C. Other Sewerage Works
and Studies            2,815       450    8,528   30,846   18,862    61,501
D. Assistance to
Construction             -         130      520       810      790      2,250
Industry
TOTAL                 2,815   10,144   53,921   81,776   57,276   205,932
4.14      For construction supervision, NWSA would be assisted by engineering
consultants who would provide in-service training to NWSA's staff. An expa-
triate sanitary engineer is currently advising NWSA's technical staff. The
technical assistance to NWSA and training of its staff are covered in para-
graphs 2.07-2.11. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that con-
sultants acceptable to the Bank will be hired, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, to assist NWSA in construction supervision, and to
prepare the feasibility studies for Ibb and Dhamar.
4.15      Intensive IDA supervision of the project is contemplated.  IDA staff
will assist NWSA in the preparation of: (1) terms of reference for the studies
in Ibb and Dhamar; (2) annual investment programs; and (3) long-range planning
for the sector. IDA supervision will in particular focus on the training pro-
gram and management improvement of NWSA. Three supervision visits per year
are anticipated.



- 25 -
Sana'a Development Plan
4.16      Progress made towards improved sanitation in Sana'a could be negated
unless measures are taken to ensure that urban development takes place in an
orderly fashion, so that problems now existing in certain parts of the city,
such as the difficulty of installing water and sewer pipelines in streets
which are too narrow, wrong usage of land, bad location of streets and pro-
liferation of overcrowded areas, will not recur. The Government has hired
consultants to prepare an urbanization plan for Sana'a. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the Government in consultation with IDA will take
appropriate measures to initiate implementation of this plan, revised and
modified as necessary by its staff, by March 31, 1978.
Associated Sanitation Measures
4.17      Improved sanitation for that part of the population not to be served
with sewers under the proposed project, would be provided through public con-
veniences and municipal control of building plumbing, including septic tank
construction. The consultants for the sewerage project are preparing a draft
building plumbing code and are carrying out a study of public conveniences
and other sanitation measures. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that (a) the Government will adopt and enforce by July 1, 1977 a plumbing code
for Sana'a, after having it previously submitted for IDA's review; (b) NWSA
will submit by December 31, 1977 a study on public conveniences and other
sanitation measures for the Sana'a population not to be connected to sewers,
for IDA's review and comments; and (c) the Government will initiate the
implementation of a program of public conveniences and other sanitation
measures as agreed upon, by July 1, 1978.
Local Construction Industry
4.18      The capacity of the local construction industry in YAR is limited
in comparison with the large program of investments being planned for the next
five years. NWSA's investment program alone, excluding supply of materials,
would mobilize the entire capacity of the local industry. YAR can little
afford the higher prices and increased foreign exchange requirements which
would result from its dependence on foreign contractors. Moreover, a strong
local construction industry would create skills, generate employment and have
beneficial effects on other sectors by keeping costs of housing, schools and
other infrastructure at a minimum. The principal constraints to further
development of the industry are the shortage of trained and skilled workers,
and a need for improved management techniques.
4.19      The following measures should strengthen the capacity of the local
construction industry:
(i) Technical assistance from the Government in the preparation
of forecasts of required construction industry capacity and
related manpower and training requirements; establishment
of a program to ensure that manpower and training require-
ments w(ould be met; training of administration officials



- 26 -
in the preparation of tender documents and contract super-
vision. A similar Bank-financed construction industry
assistance program is underway in Tunisia.
(ii)  Provision of a training course for contractors, covering
such subjects as the role of the private contractor in
the country's economy, basic principles of organization,
planning, cost control, construction techniques and pro-
ductivity, financial management and cost estimating.
This course would be given in YAR and as far as possible
in Arabic. It could be patterned after the series of
courses given in Africa by the UN Economic Commission
for Africa.
(iii)  Provision of on-the-job training for graduate Yemeni civil
engineers with large well-run construction firms overseas.
A useful duration might be one year. Some mechanism would
have to be worked out to encourage the return of these
engineers to YAR.
The total cost of these measures is estimated at US$500,000. Financing of the
foreign exchange cost estimated at US$400,000 would be provided from the IDA
credit. A detailed program of these measures together with an implementation
schedule was discussed during negotiations and found acceptable by the YAR
delegation.
Procurement
4.20      All major contracts financed by the Association would be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group
Guidelines for Procurement. For bid evaluation purposes, a 15% margin of
preference or customs duties, whichever is lower, would be allowed for equip-
ment manufactured in Yemen Arab Republic. Local civil works contractors
would be allowed a preference of 7-1/2%. Contracts for civil works or goods
of less than YRls 225,000 (US$50,000), aggregating to not more than YRls
1,350,000 (US$300,000), would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures which are accept-
able to IDA.
4.21      The items financed by the Arab Fund and other external lenders (the
water supply component and installation of sewers and sewage connections) will
be procured in accordance with their own guidelines.
4.22      The water supply and sewerage components would be carried out with
18 contracts:



- 27 -
I.   WATER SUPPLY
Contract No.  1        Construction of 10 wells
Contract No.  2        Supply of pumps, metering and control devices
Contract No.  3        Electrical Works and Instrumentation
Contract No.  4        Pump Installation
Contract No.  5        Supply of Water Pipes
Contract No.  6   :   Installation of Well Field Collector
Contract No.  7        Installation of Distribution Pipes
Contract No.  8   :   Execution of House Water Connections
Contract No.  9        Supply of Laboratory and Miscellaneous Equipment
Contract No. 10   :   Construction of one reservoir
Contract No. 11   :   Construction supervision
II. SEWERAGE
Contract No. 12        Feasibility Studies for Ibb and Dhamar
Contract No. 13   :   Supply of Sewer Pipes
Contract No. 14        Construction of Sewer System Including House Connections
Contract No. 15        Construction of Sewer Manholes
Contract No. 16        Construction of Treatment Plan
Contract No. 17   :   Construction Supervision
Contract No. 18        Supply of Sewer Maintenance Equipment
During negotiations, the understanding was reached that NWSA will place seven
contracts for the sewerage project as defined above. It was also understood
that NWSA will try to reach agreement with the Arab Fund on a contract schedule
for the water supply component in line with the above recommendation.
4.23      Except for water pipes and sewers of less than 10" diameter, foreign
suppliers are expected to win all the contracts for supply of equipment and
materials. Foreign contractors are also expected to win the civil works con-
tracts for construction of the sewage treatment plant and sewer system.
Disbursements
4.24      The proposed IDA credit of US$10 million would be disbursed against:
(i) the full CIF cost of all direct imports for the sewerage component or 85%
of the cost of locally procured imported equipment; (ii) the foreign exchange
cost of consulting services for preparation of the feasibility studies for
Ibb and Dhamar, and for construction supervision of the sewerage component;
(iii) 60% of total expenditures op,civil works construction and installation
of the sewage treatment plant and manholes of the sewer system; (iv) 100% of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment and pipes for the
sewerage component; and (v) 100% of foreign expenditures on the technical
assistance program to the local construction industry. The allocation of
the credit to different types of expenditures is shown below:



- 28 -
Table 4-4  Proposed Allocation of Credit Proceeds in US$ Thousands
Type                                            Amount            % of Total Cost
Foreign Expenditures                              3,800                100.0
Local Expenditures                                  600                100.0
Civil Works                                       4,700                 60.0
Foreign Cost of Consulting Services                 900                100.0
TOTAL IDA CREDIT                      10,000                 70.6
4.25      Estimated disbursements of the IDA Credit and loans of the Arab Fund
and other external sources are given in Table 4-5. The closing date of the
IDA credit would be June 30, 1982.



- 29 -
Table 4-5 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements in YRls Thousands
Other
FY and Quarter             IDA    Arab Fund  external sources Government   Total
1977
End of 2nd quarter          -          -              -             2,815       2,815
End of 4th quarter         225       5,194            -               -         5,419
1978
End of 2nd quarter         450       2,276            -               -         2,726
End of 4th quarter       1,612       7,177          4,058             431      13,278
16,004
1979
End of 2nd quarter       2,774      12,078          8,015             991     23,858
End of 4th quarter       6,682      10,372         11,101           2,206     30,361
54,219
1980
End of 2nd quarter    10,591         8,668         13,886          3,810      36,955
End of 4th quarter       8,534       9,082         10,660          3,171      31,447
68,402
1981
End of 2nd quarter       6,476       9,496          7,434          2,277      25,683
End of 4th quarter       3,247       4,865          3,918           1,260      13,290
38,973
1982
End of 2nd quarter       4,409       7,560          6,341           1,790     20,100
End of 4th quarter         -           -              -              -            -
Total                   45,000      76,768         65,413         18,751    205,932
4.26      The loans from the Arab Fund and other external sources totalling
US$31.6 million would be disbursed directly by these entities for the full
amount of all expenditures on the project components financed under these
loans. IDA, the Arab Fund and other external lenders will keep each other
informed of the status of disbursements under the credit and loans.



- 30 -
Monitoring Criteria
4.27      Table 4-6 shows the Key indicators which would be monitored during
the project execution to measure the achievement of the technical, financial,
administrative and training goals set for the proposed project. This table
also gives the values forecast for these indicators which were discussed
during negotiations and found acceptable by the YAR delegation. Agreement
was reached with NWSA that the evolution of the indicators will be reported
to IDA on a quarterly basis during project implementation and on an annual
basis for five years following project completion, and that it will carry on
any remedial actions suggested by IDA. During supervision missions, NWSA's
performance will be discussed with its staff and evaluated on the basis of
these indicators.



Table 4-6      Monitoring Indicators   FY 1976-1984
Indicators
1. Staffing and Training                                 1976       1977        1978        1979       1980        1981        1982        1983        1984
Number of permanent employees:
a) Headquarters                                                    27          35          60         80         105         110         115        120
b) Sanea'                                                          82         102         120        140         156         161         169         180
Staff per 1,000 population served                                 1.2         1.4         1.1        1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0
Number of employees trained
2. System Operations
Water Produced 103m3/year                                       3,851       5,221      6,322       7,624       8,591       9,606      10,640      11,764
Water Sold 103m3/year                                           3,081       4,177       5,058      6,099       6,873       7,685       8,512       9,411
Unnaccounted for water %                                           20          20          20         20          20          20          20          20
No. of water connections                                        9,700      12,000     18,000      24,000      25,800      27,500      29,500     31,500
No. of sewerage connections                                       --                      -          -         8,745       9,455      10,165     10,875
3. Finances
Rate of Return I/                                                 7.7        16.4         4.3        2.8         3.7         2.5         3.8         5.2
Operating Ratio                                        -          .81         .70         .76        .76         .73         .82         .76         .72
Debt Equity Ratio                                   37:63       40:60       43:57      44:56       45:55       43:57       41:59       39:61      36:64
CG - I  X  2/                                         -            19          26           2        neg         neg         neg           8          36
CG  - II % 3/                                            2         14          15           1        neg         neg         neg           1           1
Debt service Coverage                                  -          -           -           6.9        3.5         1.4          .9         1.1         1.4
Revenue per unit of Investment 4/                      .10        .09         .08         .08        .09         .13         .14         .16         .19
Average Tariff YRls/m3
Sana'a Water                                       -          1.50        2.00       2.20        2.40        2.60        2.80        3.05       3.35
sana'a Sewerage                                                                       -           -          2.40        2.60        2.85       3.10
Hodeida Water                                      -          1.80        2.00       2.10        2.25        2.40        2.55        2.70       2.85
Hodeida Sewerage                                   -           -           -         2.70        2.85        3.00        3.15        3.30       3.45
Taiz Water                                         -           -                      -          2.40        2.65        2.95        3.25       3.55
Taiz Sewerage                                      -                 -                 -         4.00        4.30        4.60       4.90        5.25
1/ No revaluation of assets.
2/  Net cash generation % capital investment for the year.
3/ Net cash generation 7. net fixed assets plus work in progress.
4/ Defined as net fixed assets plus wcrk in progress.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
FIG. 4-1 BAR CHART FOR DESIGN, BIDDING AND CONSTRUCTION
CALENDAR YEAR                                           1976                               19 77                                1978                             1979                              1980
J F JM  AIMI JI J JA  S 0IN 0D IJ FM  A  M  J J AI SI 0 N 01 J IF MIA  M. J IAl SI ON  DI J FIM  A MJ IJ I A 5  OIN 0I J IF MIA M J IJ JA S 0) N IJ
MONTHS AFTER PROJECT INITIATION                     I       1 213 14  5  61718 91101111213 1411516 1711819 2021J222324125126 2728129 383113213334]3536 3738139V                   42314 47895015234516
NO, ACTIVITY
A    SEWERAGE COMPONENT
I FINAL PROJECT DESIGN                                                 DO
3    CONSTRUCTION OF PONDS                                                                                                                   BIE
4     P.S. CIVIL WORKS                                                                                                                                                       EA IIIII
5    P.S. EQUIPMENT                                                                                                       8o
6    CONNECTING CHANNELS                                                                                                          i
7    ACCESS ROAD PAVING                                                                                                                            iil
8    FENCING                                                                              E
9     ELECTRICAL WORK 
18    SEWER PIPE SUPPLY                                                             ***    
11    INSTALLATION OF SEWER PIPES
12    CONSTRUCTIOBN OF MANHOLES                                                                                        "
13     HOUSE SEWER CONNECTIONSsoIoimlpnoll                                                                                                                                                                               u                 r
8    WATER SUPPLY
14    SUPPLY OF WELL EQUIPMENT                                                       *   *                                 BE *,
15    CONSTRUCTION OF WELLS                                                         IIIFE[Al   7121              +
1 6    SUPPLY OF PUMPING EQUIPMENT                                                  mu . urn  * m            Fr
17    INSTALLATION OF COLLECTOR                                                        mil muB  FI  I  e
18    LAYING OF DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                                                 **io  Ism  m   mmmnga aw       
19    HOUSE WATER CONNECTIONS                                                               8               DE                                 +t                               
I II Ito Rai 
20    ELECTRICAL WORK                                                                                                             IE
B           DO
21    CONSTRUCTION OF STORAGE TANK                                                  Isst me .  u  s   im.mStg            I
22    SUPPLY OF LABORATORY EQUIPMENT                                                 *     m                DEm
C    STUDIES FOR IBB AND DAMAR                                                        -~ilkig    m   -IM   n    li
LEGEND                                 ~    ~ ~~~~~~~B Bidding                                                                                                     World Bank-16263
D O   =Detailed Design
----      - u   ~~~~Design                                              DE        Delivery
EA       Execution of Activity
.....m.m..ususmamm Bidding, Selection of Consultants                    F        Fabrication
~~~~~ ~~~ Delivery of Equipment, Materials                              I         Installatioin
Pi       Pipe LayinR
Contructijoi, Executioni of Activity                  SC   =Selection of Consultants
F    =  Fabrication
a 



IBRD-12286
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                                                          /                   K                         _.
SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
PROJECT                                                            1I
Water Supply Components                                                            I                                                                                                                          (
URTABUS TEETER MAINS                                                                                        5U                   7  ~-/gJ  
~-- -  WDRKS lTB  LTER 5YT  UID - I
0       TELLS 
q-,~~~~~~~U
5--- --                             ! -                                                        \                                                   '                        ,2       .'    ffi   v   .
11"IA1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUU                                                                             IT'IAT~.
-    Nx                         ft .jESS               \AS       *"-                                                                                     . N,2U,R'                       .'Ai                         1 o -  _ _
$/-\                                                                                                                                                                                                       "\
A   1G  EA  SU rBUT[v SOT BUc ABUT                                                                     _    _-Er
SLD  T<s    -V    5 SB          EU N                                                 _   2'   
USt  N,'  A5     g BUT      AAIANE    0                                                     l rQn  i1l.At  1  rt~     
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A /rLAUTr   \  SA
itS~~~~~~S T






IBRD-12287
September 1976
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                                                                                                     7
SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
PROJECT                                                                7
Sewerage Components
.    SALON ANEVANO sOVUODANT                                                       /                                  */
NT-CE-ING SEWEE TC SE  VNONSU-ltD BEFO-E 1AV                               7        j
-    4EAEEEPNNVNTVWER TCECO QTEVASTTVTn TErDETOI INS0 AND OTT                                                 i                         - 
T -OTOCATT NG SEVER T DEO  STRICTEDT1985 ANID 2003
- -  - .- ANTEU/ NF NT OAr NATE OT15TOVEN E' INST AS   -t
, .1 LT 2' E L _ _ ___ .......
/S TN  NV  .V                                                                      ,,, N. SEN 
j75    TEESOMAtIA                                                              ..........
U C       r   .wra .Arise .r...e m .1  
/k FNt>n!                                                        /e Ubz P .<ADES>>M,,                                                                                                          6
NEVSJ r~~~~~~~~~0i
4NX~~    ANTTAANNA4
ID EASOTA






- 35 -
CHAPTER 5
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Finances and Present Position
5.01      NWSA is still in an organization phase.  Preliminary balance sheets
and income statements as of June 30, 1975 were prepared for the appraisal.
NWSA's financial situation has not improved in FY1975. As of June 30, 1975
accounts receivable represented three and one-half months of annual water
sales, and have continued to increase following the implementation of higher
tariffs in January 1976, which was not matched by improved service. As no
provision for bad debts has been made, a certain amount of the receivables
will have to be written off, particularly in view of the fact that disconnected
customers are still being billed (paragraph 2.12). At time of appraisal, NWSA
was initiating action against the most delinquent accounts. Improvement of
collection in the future would very much depend upon speedy implementation of
the new billing and accounting system (paragraph 2.16).
5.02      So far cash surplus generated by the branches has not been sufficient
to cover the head office expenses which have been met by the Government. This
situation will continue to prevail until the end of FY1977 when part of the
new water supply system will be in operation and new tariffs will be in force.
By that time NWSA should be able to cover all its operating expenses with
increased revenues of the branch offices. Withdrawal of proceeds from
Credits 464 and 559-YAR for the first Sana'a Water Supply Project and the
Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project are recorded 56% as loans and 44%
as Government equity contributions, as set forth in the Development Credit
Agreements.
Water and Sewerage Tariffs
5.03      A tariff study for Sana'a water supply services financed under
Credit 464-YAR, has been completed by a Lebanese consulting firm, Deloitte
Haskins, Sells, Shair & Co. It recommends the introduction of a three-step
tariff structure based on metered sales, to make a minimum domestic consump-
tion available at a cost which is within the means of the low-income popula-
tion and to encourage a rational water usage by levying higher tariffs on
consumption in excess of basic needs. Under the provisions of Credit 464-YAR,
these tariffs should have been implemented by October 1975. In view of de-
lays in project completion, the Association agreed to NWSA's request to delay
implementation of the tariffs until January 1977, when part of the new dis-
tribution network will be in service and meter installation will be further
advanced. The proposed tariff structure calls for the first 10 m3 of monthly
consumption at YRls 2.0/m3, the next 10 m3 at YRls 2.50/m3 and above 20 m3 at
YRls 4.0/m3. At present the minimum monthly charge for water supply services
is YRls 15 per connection. This is equivalent to about YRls 1.5/m3 assuming
a minimum consumption of about 10 m3 per connection.



- 36 -
5.04      NWSA is presently committed under the project agreements for Credits
464 and 559-YAR to earn by 1978 a positive rate of return on its net fixed
assets in operation, properly valued. The rate of return should gradually
increase to not less than 5% by 1984 and not less than 7-1/2% by 1987 and
thereafter. It is recommended that these rates remain unchanged under the
proposed credit. The average water and sewerage tariffs that should be im-
plemented in the cities served by NWSA to meet the financial covenants are
as follows:
Table 5-1   Water Tariffs and Sewerage Charges
Sana'a           Hodeida          Taiz
 -------------YRls/m3-------------
Water Supply
FY77                               1.50                1.80
78                               2.00               2.00
79                               2.20               2.10
80                               2.40               2.25           2.40
81                               2.60               2.40           2.65
82                               2.80               2.55           2.95
83                               3.05               2.70           3.25
84                               3.35               2.85           3.55
Sewerage
FY79                                 -                 2.70            -
80                               2.40               2.85           4.00
81                               2.40               3.00           4.30
82                               2.60               3.15           4.60
83                               2.85               3.30           4.90
84                               3.10               3.45           5.25
The proposed average water rate in FY1977 in Sana'a (US$1.26/1,000 gallons)
is quite high compared to present tariffs in other countries 1/ and indeed
is one of the highest in the developing countries. The projected high water
rate is due in part to the expected high operating cost of the system which
will have two stages of pumping. A comparison of the projected FY 1980 sew-
erage tariffs with existing tariffs in other countries would be at this stage
inappropriate. These tariffs would be within the customers' ability to pay
and would also generate funds towards financing future expansion of the sys-
tems. The fee for connecting to the water supply system would amount to YRls
400 in 1976 prices, and that for the sewerage, to YRls 1,314. As mentioned
in paragraph 3.09, NWSA will provide credit facilities to low income cus-
tomers for payment of the sewerage connection fee.
1/   For comparison, present average water rates are for instance US$0.90/1,000
gallons in Jordan; US$0.64/1,000 gallons in Tunisia; US$0.20/1,000 gallons
in Syria; and US$0.65/1,000 gallons in the United States.



- 37 -
5.05      The appraisal of the First Sana'a Water Supply Project and that of
the Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project projected lower average tariffs.
However, the implementation of higher tariffs in Sana'a appears necessary
because of a 60% cost increase in the estimates of the first Sana'a project
and of similar inflationary increases in operating expenses; increased
tariffs for Hodeida are also needed because of projected higher operating
expenses. The higher cost of the first Sana'a project is resulting from
increased local annual inflation rates which were projected at 6% in the
appraisal report for this project, but which have been standing at about 20%.
For the proposed project annual inflation rates of 25% until 1980 and 10%
thereafter are projected during the project execution.
Financing Plan
5.06      NWSA's overall financing plan for the period FY1976-1982 is as
follows:



- 38 -
Table 5-2   NWSA's Overall Financing Plan
YRls         US$           %
---- million----
Application of Funds
Proposed Project                                      205.93      45.76        35.5
Other Projects
Sana'a Water I                                      46.80       10.40         8.1
Hodeida Water                                       37.67        8.37         6.5
Hodeida Sewerage                                    99.60       22.13        17.1
Other works                                         102.24      22.72        17.6
Interest During Construction                           15.70       3.49         2.7
Total Investment                                      507.94     112.87        87.5
Increase in Working Capital                            72.38       16.08       12.5
TOTAL APPLICATION                                    580.32      128.95       100.0
Sources of Funds
Net Internal Cash Generation                           33.93        7.54        5.8
Customers' Contributions                               70.92       15.76       12.2
Government Equity                                     101.67      22.59        17.5
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Credit 464-YAR)             18.60       4.13         3.2
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Credit 559-YAR)             22.93       5.10         4.0
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Arab Fund)                 57.35       12.74         9.9
Proposed Government Loan
IDA Credit Proceeds                                 24.20        5.38         4.2
Arab Fund Proceeds                                  42.98        9.55         7.4
Other Proceeds                                      36.63        8.14         6.3
Proposed Government Equity Investment                  99.86      22.19        17.2
Government Equity Investment for Taiz                  31.07        6.90        5.4
Unidentified Borrowing                                 40.18        8.93        6.9
TOTAL SOURCES                                        580.32      128.95       100.0
5.07      The financing plan takes into account the tariff adjustments de-
scribed in paragraph 5.04 and includes NWSA's activities in Sana'a, Hodeida
and Taiz, the latter scheduled to be incorporated into NWSA by mid-1977. The
proposed project will require about 35% of all funds provided, while 32% are
earmarked for the construction of the ongoing projects in Sana's and Hodeida
financed under Credits 464 and 559-YAR. Out of the investment requirements
for other works, 68% would be needed for the improvement of water supply and
sewerage in Taiz. About 18% of the total investments will be financed with
net funds provided by operations and customers' contributions.



- 39 -
5.08      The borrower of the IDA credit and the loans from the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development, and other external sources would be the Gov-
ernment. From the IDA credit an amount of US$400,000 would be used by the
Government to finance measures designed to strengthen the local construction
industry. The remainder of the proceeds of the IDA Credit would partly be
re-lent by the Government to NWSA, and partly be contributed as equity to
NWSA. Similar to the arrangements made for Credits 464 and 559-YAR, it is
proposed that 56% of the remaining proceeds or US$5.4 million be re-lent to
NWSA at the current Bank interest rate of 8.7% with amortization over 15
years after a 5 year grace period. The remaining 44% or US$4.2 million
would be passed to NWSA as Government equity contributions. In preparing
the financial forecasts for NWSA it was further anticipated that the same
proportions would be used for the loans from the Arab Fund and other external
sources, but at lower interest rates, resulting in an average interest rate of
about 6% for all subloans.
5.09      The proposed Government contribution is essential to hielp NWSA build
up its capital structure and generate internal funds for a progressive expan-
sion of the cities' systems.
5.10      A condition for presenting the loan to the Executive Directors has
been that the Government has made arrangements satisfactory to the Association
to obtain the additional funds needed for the project, from the Arab Fund and
other external lenders. It is proposed that the allocation of the proceeds
of the IDA credit be executed through a subsidiary financing agreement between
the Government and NWSA. The execution of this agreement with terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Association, and the signing of loan agreements
between the Government and the Arab Fund and other external lenders, will be
conditions of effectiveness for the proposed credit.
Future Financial Performance
5.11      NWSA's financial structure and liquid position will change substan-
tially during the period of project implementation. As summarized in Table
5-3, total assets will increase from YRls 23.1 million in 1976 to about YRls
558.7 million in 1982. Equity will increase by about 23 times from YRls 13.9
million in 1976 to YRls 322.8 million in 1982, whilst long-term debt will
rise from YRls 8.2 million to YRls 226.2 million in the same period. The
ratio of current assets to current liability will be low in 1977, 1978 and
1979 because of the large investment program.



- 40 -
Table 5-3   Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheeets (YRls Million)
FY July 1 - June 30            1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Assets
Net Fixed Assets                4.3   15.9    30.9  122.4  249.8  338.2  450.0
Current Assets                  1.2    3.4      7.8   17.3   55.5   90.5   83.0
Works in Progress              17.6   62.4   163.1  213.2  186.1  127.2   25.7
Total Assets            23.1   81.7   201.8  352.9  491.4  555.9  558.7
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                         13.9   41.8    93.2  172.2  259.5  311.6  322.8
Long-Term Debt                  8.2   27.9    69.6  138.0  205.6  227.4  226.2
Current Liabilities             1.0   12.0    39.0   42.7   26.3   16.9    9.7
Total Equity and Liability   23.1   81.7   201.8  352.9  491.4  555.9  558.7
Current Assets to Current
Liabilities                  l 2/1   .3/1   .2/1   .411   2.1/1  5.4/1  8.6/1
Long-Term Debt to Equity       1/1.7   1/1.5  1/1.3  1/1.2  1/1.3  1/1.4  1/1.4
5.12      A summary of forecast income and cash flow statements in 1977
through 1984 is shown in Table 5-4. The flow of cash is illustrated in Fig.
5-1. The financial projections cover NWSA's overall financial operations at
the head office and branches in Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz. The consolidated
operating ratio is projected to fluctuate around 76% during the construction
period. Net cash generation from operation would provide an average coverage
of 1.4 times the debt service up to 1984. Under the provisions of the Project
Agreement 464-YAR, NWSA is committed not to incur any long-term debt without
the Association's concurrence, unless its projected net income before interest
and depreciation is at least 1.5 times its maximum debt service. Major invest-
ment works are being planned for Taiz. Any arrangement for debt financing of
the Taiz project would therefore have to get the Association's concurrence.
5.13      NWSA is scheduled to grow financially extremely fast in the next
six years, increasing its total assets 24 times in that period. To ensure an
orderly financial expansion of NWSA, agreement was reached during negotiations
that NWSA, during the project execution, will annually review and discuss with
the Association its investment program in the sector, and will agree to any
reasonable modifications proposed by the Association.



TABLE 5-4    SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME AND CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
FY July 1 - June 30                               1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
-------------------------- YRls Million ----------------------_
Operating Revenues                                 2.1     7.0    15.9    25.7    40.8    60.2    67.6    80.9    96.3
Operating Expenses                                 2.5     5.6    11.2    19.5    31.0    43.7    55.6    61.6    69.4
Net Revenues                                    (.4)    1.4     4.7      6.2     9.8    16.5    12.0    19.3    26.9
Non-Cash Charges                                    .5      .9     1.8      4.7     8.7    11.6    15.5    16.1    17.2
Internally Generated Funds                          .1     2.3      6.5    10.9    18.5    28.1    27.5    35.4    44.1
Debt Service                                        -       .2       .6     i.8     5.4    20.5    31.0    32.9    31.9
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital              .0    (8.9)  (23.3)    5.8    54.6    44.2    (0.1)  (25.3)   (5.2)
Usable Internally Generated Funds                   .1   10.9    29.2       3.3   (41.5)  (36.6)   (3.4)   27.8    17.4
Borrowings                                         8.2    19.7    41.7    68.2    68.5    28.0    12.3         -       _
Equity Contributions                               9.3    24.6    41.3    60.8    61.5    25.0    11.0         -       -   H
Customers' Contributions                           _       2.2     3.4    13.9    20.6    25.1       5.8      6.4     7.2
17.6    57.4   115.6   146.3   109.1    41.5   25.7    34.2    24.6
_-                 -                   =
Investment Program:
Proposed Project                                 -     10.1    30.2    68.1       5.0    29.0      -        -       -
Projects financed under Credits
464-YAR and 559-YAR                        15.8    45.5    78.7    54.5    70.6         -       -        -
Other Works                                     1.8     1.8      6.7    23.7    33.5    12.5    25.7    34.2    24.6
Total                                      17.6    57.4   115.6   146.3   109.1    41.5    25.7    34.2    24.6
Average Rate Base                                   -     10.1    23.4    76.6   186.1   294.0   394.1   453.8   466.6
Rate of Return %                                    -      7.7    16.4      4.1      2.7     3.6      2.5     3.7      5.1
Operating Ratio %                                   -     81       70      76       76      73      82       76      72
Average Tariff YRls/m3 - Sana'a Water               -      1.50    2.00    2.20    2.40    2.60    2.80    3.05    3.35
Sana'a Sewerage           -       -       -        -       -       2.40    2.60    2.85    3.10
Hodeida Water             -      1.80    2.00    2.10    2.25    2.40    2.55    2.70    2.85
Hodeida Sewerage          -       -        -      2.70    2.85    3.00    3.15    3.30    3.45
Taizz Water               -       -        -       -      2.140    2.65    2.95    3.25    3.55
Taizz Sewerage            -       -        -       -      4.00    4.30    4.60    4.90    5.25



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
FIG. 5-1 CASH FLOW CHART
MILLION
YRLS
200  -__________
190
B0  S  r   l      I                   l                  |         ,fI4I/: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNDENTIFIED)| 
ISO                                      I         _WORKINGCAPtTALCH                           S     BORROWINGS
170
160
150
140
130-
120-
110 
100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
900 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NETET FORINESTEN
80 
70                                                                                                                          CUSTMER CONTRIBUTIONS
60 -o                                                                                                                  ...
50-
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
TOTAL         CAAH
20  OPERATIONS
EXPENSES
10~~~~~~~0
INERNAL FUNDS
10                                                                      AVAILABLE
FOR INVESTMENT
1975               171971978                                                 1979                1980               1981                1982
FISCAL YEARS
World Bank-16303(Ri



- 43 -
CHAPTER 6
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Investment Objectives
6.01      The project is essential to meet Sana'a's basic needs for safe water
over the next decade and to dispose adequately of sewage which at present con-
stitutes a potential source of fecal contamination and water-borne diseases.
The objective of the first water supply project was to correct an intolerable
situation in which the city's entire population was supplied with water from
contaminated wells. The proposed water supply project together with the first
one will serve about 81% of the city's population forecast for 1980 through
direct connections. The remainder will be served by easily accessible public
standpipes. The project would also make water available for commercial and
industrial usages.
6.02      Only the first stage of a master sewerage plan will be executed.  It
will collect and dispose of wastewaters in the most densely populated areas of
the city where unsanitary conditions now prevail. Night soil and other wastes
are presently handled manually, a health hazard that should be removed ur-
gently. The sewerage would also assure that water distributed is conveniently
eliminated from the dwellings.
Least Cost Solution
6.03      The sewerage project was scaled down to put it in line with other
Government priorities. Yet it would meet the most urgent needs, especially
in the old city. It is the least cost solution among several alternative
collection systems and disposal treatment methods analyzed by the consultants.
For sizing and comparing water transmission mains and sewer interceptors, dis-
count rates of 6% to 12% were used by the consultants. Two sewage interceptors
would be in operation when the master plan is completed. The western inter-
ceptor will be built immediately and will drain both the western and eastern
parts of the city. The eastern interceptor would be constructed after maximum
flow capacity is reached in the western interceptor.
6.04      The sandstone aquifer flowing to the north of the city is the only
available water supply source that can conveniently serve the city. All the
components of the water supply project would be constructed at least cost.
Internal Economic Return
6.05      The internal economic rate of return on the proposed investments is
8.9%. The rates of return would be 13.4% for the water supply component and
4.6% for the sewerage. The calculations of the return are based on September
1976 price levels and are shown in Table 6-1. Net revenues are taken to be



- 44 -
the income from water sales and sewerage charges valued at YRls 1.93/m3 1/
for water and YRls 1.53/m3 1/ for sewerage, after deducting operating and
maintenance costs. Capital costs are those of the proposed works including
the investments for the first water suply project. To the initial capital
costs are added subsequent investments needed to utilize fully the project
facilities in the next 35 years. All costs are taken net of inflation but
include physical contingencies.
Table 6-1 Calculation of Cost Recovery /1
Year        Water Sold       Gross        Capital       Operating      Net Revenues
103 x m3      Revenues        Costs        and Main-
tenance
Costs
--------------------YRls Thousands------------------
1976          1,540           2,973       11,684         1,180           (9,891)
1977         3,629            7,004       15,799         2,646          (11,441)
1978         4,618            8,913       52,990         3,680          (47,757)
1979         5,579           10,767       58,920         4,691          (52,844)
1980          6,486          15,427       34,333         5,964          (24,870)
1981          7,279          20,436       10,997         7,702            1,737
1982          8,099          22,827        8,147         8,720            5,960
1983          8,962          25,271        6,912         9,128            9,231
1984          9,891          28,021        2,344         9,625           16,052
1985-2010   10,370           29,462          -           9,439           20,023
/1   Internal Economic Rate of Return = 8.85%.
6.06      The calculated return is lower than the expected economic benefits
from the proposed investments, because intangible benefits such as improvement
of productivity due to better environment and public health are not fully
reflected in the prices charged for water and sewerage services. Provision
of safe water to large segments of the urban poor should help to reduce the
incidence of waterborne diseases, provide better living conditions, and foster
the city's economic growth.
Average Incremental Costs
6.07      There is no capital market in Yemen Arab Republic and a relevant
value for the opportunity cost of capital is not available. Following in-
quiries of the Government and local banks, a value of 8% has been considered
to be realistic.
1/   They were obtained by deflating the FY1977 water rate of YRls 2.0/m3
and FY1980 sewerage tariff of YRls 2.40/m3 to the 1976 price levels.



- 45 -
6.08      Table 6-2 gives the long-run average incremental costs of water
supply in Sana'a, calculated at discount rates varying from 3% to 14%.
At the opportunity interest rates of 3% to 12%, the proposed tariffs are
higher than the long-run average incremental costs by YRls 0.79 to YRls 0.11.
At 14% the tariffs are only YRls 0.05 below the average incremental cost.
Under the proposed tariff structure, low income families will receive the
minimum needed volume of water at less than the average cost, while large
consumers will be charged more than the average cost in order to encourage
a rational usage of the scarce water resources.
Table 6-2  Long-run Average Incremental Cost of Water Supply
in Sana'a
Discount               Present Value             Cost per                 Deviation
Rate %       Volumes of       Total Costs /1    m3 (YRls)    Tariff        YRls/m3
Water Sold                                       YRls/m3
3.0         194,784          221,723             1.14          1.93      0.79
4.0         167,330          201,319             1.20          1.93      0.73
6.0         126,812           170,373            1.34          1.93      0.59
8.0          99,250          148,388             1.49          1.93      0.44
10.0          79,900           132,165            1.65          1.93      0.28
12.0          65,906           119,772            1.82          1.93      0.11
14.0          55,508          110,006             1.98          1.93     (0.05)
/1   Based on September 1976 price levels, in YRls Thousands..
Sensitivity Analysis
6.09      A sensitivity analysis shows that the return is significantly sensi-
tive to the levels of water sales. Moderate increases in capital investments
would not much affect the expected return. As shown in Table 6-3, for each
10% decrease in water sales, the rate of return would decrease by about 1.7%;
for each 10% increase in the capital costs, the return would decrease by about
0.8%. Variations in the operating and maintenance costs are not considered,
since any increase in these costs would be offset by a proportional increase
in the tariffs.
6.10      Under the most pessimistic conditions in which the investments would
increase by 20% and water sales would fall by 20%, the rate of return would be
4.0%, which is still acceptable considering the social character of the proj-
ect. However, it is more probable that water sales would be greater than
projected. The average per capita domestic consumption considered is less
than a third of the average current usage in Tunisia for example, and is the
lowest that can be conceived under the lowest minimum standards.



- 46 -
Table 6-3 Sensitivity Analysis of the Internal Rate of Return
% of Decrease in                         % of Increase in Capital Costs
Revenues                            0          10         20          30
0                                8.85      7.85        7.05        6.25
10                                7.15      6.25        5.55        4.85
20                                5.45      4.65        3.95        3.25
Risks
6.11      The measures recommended to be taken in the course of the project
execution, such as the technical assistance to NWSA by experienced expatriate
advisors for finance, training and construction supervision, the proposed
review by the Association of NWSA's financial situation and investment pro-
grams, and monitoring of key indicators of progress, will ensure that the
risks are no greater than can normally be expected with usual water supply and
sewerage projects. NWSA was set up 2-1/2 years ago and is not yet properly
staffed. An extensive training program financed under the first IDA Credit
is now being implemented with some success. This program will continue to be
carried out in the next 4 years, and additional funds for training would be
lent by USAID to the Government. It is expected that by 1980 NWSA will be
staffed adequately.
6.12      The city's population is willing to pay for public services and the
projected per capita water consumption is not more than is strictly necessary
under the lowest conceivable standards. Therefore, it is unlikely that this
consumption would be affected by the tariff levels. Consequently, the risk
of not achieving the institutional, technical and financial objectives of
the project is medium.
Environmental Impact of the Project
6.13      The Government is now trying to equip the country's major cities
with basic infrastructure such as water supply, sewerage and drainage. For
centuries the Sana'a population has been drinking polluted water and disposing
of night soil manually. The Government has no alternative but to proceed with
this project if better living conditions are to be set up in Sana'a. Much of
the population after the project is completed will be supplied with adequate
volumes of wholesome and palatable water, and will be provided with convenient
ways of eliminating wastewaters.



- 47 -
CHAPTER 7
AGREEMENTS REACHED
AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a)  by December 31, 1978 it will take appropriate steps to
ensure that those water customers in Sana'a with sewerage
facilities available to them, be required to connect to the
sewer system (paragraph 3.09);
(b)  it will arrange to provide NWSA with funds as needed for the
project (paragraph 4.12);
(c)  implementation of an urbanization plan for Sana'a will start
by March 31, 1978 (paragraph 4.16);
(d)  following consultation with the Association, it will adopt
and enforce by July 1, 1977 a building plumbing code for
Sana'a (paragraph 4.17); and
(e)  a program of construction of public conveniences and other
sanitation measures for the Sana'a population not to be
served with sewers, under the proposed project, will start
by July 1, 1978 (paragraph 4.17).
7.02      Agreement was also reached with NWSA that:
(i)  by March 31, 1977, two experienced expatriate financial
advisors, one for the head office and the other for the
Sana'a branch, will be appointed for a period of not less
than three years (paragraph 2.07);
(ii) prior to taking over any water supply or sewerage facilities
it will submit for the Association's review and comments a
detailed program covering inter alia a description of the work
program, valuation of the existing facilities, staffing needs
and availability of staff, working capital requirements,
schedule of estimated capital expenditures and their sources,
terms and conditions (paragraph 2.08);
(iii) by July 1, 1977 it will engage the services of a full time
training officer acceptable to the Association, for a
period of not less than two years (paragraph 2.11);



- 48 -
(iv) it will give credit facilities to low-income customers in
Sana'a to help them meet the cost of connecting to the sewer
system (paragraph 3.09);
(v) engineering consultants acceptable to the Association will
be employed, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, to assist NWSA in construction supervision and
to prepare the feasibility studies for Ibb and Dhamar (para-
graph 4.14);
(vi)  it will submit by December 31, 1977 a study on public con-
veniences and other sanitation measures for that part of
Sana'a not to be served with sewers under the proposed
project, for the Association's review and comments
(paragraph 4.17);
(vii)  goods and services for the project will be procured in
accordance with an agreed upon contract schedule (paragraph
4.22);
(viii)  on a quarterly basis during project execution and annual
basis for five years after project completion, it will
report to IDA on the evolution of the indicators.designed
for monitoring progress in project implementation, and
will carry on any remedial actions suggested by the Asso-
ciation to achieve the values forecast for those indicators
(paragraph 4.27); and
(ix)  during the project execution, it will annually review and
discuss with the Association its investment program in the
sector, and on the basis of these discussions, will if
necessary modify the program (paragraph 5.13).
7.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit will be (i) the
ratification of the Project Agreement by all necessary governmental and cor-
perate action; (ii) the execution of a subsidiary Financing Agreement between
the Government and NWSA, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion; and (iii) the signing of loan agreements between the Government and the
Arab Fund for an amount of US$17.1 million and other external lenders for
US$14.5 million (paragraph 5.10).
7.04      Provided the foregoi-, conditions are met, the proposed project
is suifable for an !DA credit ~f LSS10 miLlion to the Government of Yemen
Arab aepublic.
November 18, 19>7



- 49 -
ANNEX
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
SANA'A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Additional Information Available in Project File
1. Master Plan of Sana'a Sewerage (4 Volumes) - December 1975
2. Preliminary Engineering and Feasibility Study for Sana'a Sewerage
(2 Volumes) - February 1976
3. WHO Report on Mid-Project Review of Sana'a Sewerage - December 31, 1975
4. Sana'a Water Supply System - Design Review Report by Al-Handasah -
Consultants - Shair and Partners - October 1974
5. Sana'a Water Supply Project Review Report by Al-Handasah - Consultants -
Shair and Partners - August 1975
6. Statistical Yearbook - 1976 - Central Planning Organization of
Yemen Arab Republic
7. Master Plan and Feasibility Study for Taiz Water Supply and Sewerage
(2 Volumes) - April 30, 1975
8. The Housing and Population Census - Central Planning Organization of
Yemen Arab Republic - February 1975
9. A Study of Morbidity/Mortality Pattern in Children Hospitalized in
New Olafi Hospital, Hodeida - Ministry of Health - October 1975
10. Calculation of Cost Estimates, Operating and Maintenance Expenses
11. Calculations for Financial Statements and Projections
12. Detailed Calculations of the Economic Return on the Proposed Investments
13. Survey of Local Contractors
14. Training Facilities in Yemen Arab Republic Related to the Water Supply
and Sewerage Sector
15. Forecasts of NWSA's 1980 Staffing and Training Requirements
16. Short-term Flood Control Measures for Sana'a City by B.A.O. Ward
(United Nations Disaster Relief Office) - January 9, 1976



