CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 670 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Sana'a Second Water Supply
and Sewerage Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 14, 1977
S


﻿DEVELOPFNT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 14, 1977, between YE.4EN ARAB
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of Parts B (1), (3) and (4), C and D of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (hereinafter called the Arab Fund)
a loan (hereinafter called the Arab Fund Loan) in an amount in
Kuwaiti Dinars equivalent to about seventeen million one hundred
thousand dollars ($17,100,000) to assist in financing Part A of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (here-
inafter called the Arab Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Arab Fund;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from other external
sources, financial assistance amounting to about fourteen million
five hundred thousand dollars (M4,500,000) equivalent for the
financing of Part B (2) of the Project.
(D) Parts A, B and C of the Project will be carried out by
the National Water and SeweraFe Authority (hereinafter called the
Authority), an autonomous agency of the Borrower established under
the Borrower's Law No. 13-73 of the year 1973, with the Borrower's


﻿-2-
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Authority the funds required for carrying out
Parts A, B and C of the Project, including part of the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided and the funds referred to in
Recitals (B) and (C) of this Agreement;
(E) Part D of the Project will be carried out by the Borroweri
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the fore6oing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
eneri "onditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Awreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Authority of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time. and such term includes all sched-
ules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supnlemental to
the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Authority pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
(c) "Yemeni Rial" means the currency of the Borrower.
SI


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million dollars (t10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, a,s such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in ac-
cordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in Section
2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
S


﻿of 1%) per annum on the princi-al amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1987, and ending November 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.00. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purDoses of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Minister of Development of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section r.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
S


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part D of the
Project through its Central Planning Organization with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, management, training, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall cause the Authority to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable the Authority to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or inter-
fere with such performance.
(c) For the purpose of carrying out Parts B (1), (3) and (4)
and C of the Project, the Borrower shall (i) relend an amount equi-
valent to five million four hundred thousand dollars ($5,400,000),
and (ii) make available, as a capital contribution, an amount equi-
valent to four million two hundred thousand dollars ($4,200,000)
out of the proceeds of the Credit to the Authority under a subsidi-
ary financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Authority under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
S


﻿7-
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the in-
terests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering and
management consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associ-
ation.
Section 3.03. The Borrower: (a) shall maintain records ade-
quate to record the progress of Part D of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in Part D of the Project; (b) shall enable the Association's ac-
credited representatives to examine any relevant records and docu-
ments pertaining to Part D of the Project; and (c) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning Part D of the Project, the expendi-
tures of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. In consultation with the Association and not
later than July 1, 1977, or such other date as may be agreed be-
tween the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall take
all measures necessary to cause the adoption and the enforcement
thereafter of a plumbing code for the Sana'a area.
SI


﻿-8-
Section 3.05. In consultation with the Association, and not
later than March 31, 1978, or such other date as may be agreed be-
tween the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall take
all measures necessary to ensure the prompt and satisfactory im-
plementation of a master urban development plan for the Sana'a area
after such date.
Section 3.06. Not later than December 31, 1978, or such other
date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that all
dwellings in Sana'a which are connected to the water supply system
shall also be connected to the fronting sewers.
Section 3.07. Based on the results of the study referred to
in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement, and not later than July 1,
1978, or such other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association, the Borrower shall adopt a program, satisfactory
to the Association, for the construction of public conveniences
and the provision of other sanitation measures for the population
of Sana'a not served with sewers under the Project, and shall there-
after implement such program with due diligence and efficiency.
S


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate ac-
counting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in
respect of Part D of the Project, of its Central Planning Organi-
zation.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Authority shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the Authority under the Project Agree-
ment;
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Authority will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) Law No. 13-73 of the Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to ma-
terially and adversely affect the ability of the Authority to
carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth
in the Project Agreement;
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the Authority or for the suspension of its operations;
(e)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Arab Fund Loan or of any


﻿- 11 -
other financing other than the Credit made
available to the Borrower for the financing
of Parts A and B (2) of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
any agreement providing therefor; or
(B) The Arab Fund Loan or any other financing
shall have become due and payable prior to
the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreements; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement and of the Authority under the Project
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
S


﻿- 12 -
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and the Authority; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) (i)
(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
S
S


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Authority has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental and corporate action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Authority, respectively, has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and cor-
porate action;
(c) the Arab Fund Loan Agreement has been duly signed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Arab Fund, respectively; and
(d) the agreement or agreements providing for the finan-
cial assistance referred to in Recital (C) of this Agreement
have been duly signed on behalf of the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association:
S


﻿- 114-
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Authority, and is legally binding upon the Authority
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) That the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Authority, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Authority in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date May 16, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
SI


﻿- 15 -
ARTTCLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Development of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Development
Sana'a
.Lemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                Telex:
CENPLAI                       266 CENPLAN
Sana'a                        SANA'A
Yemen Arab Republic
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
TNDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145  (wUT)


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ Yahya M. Al-Mutawakel
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Martijn J.W.M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment and ma-           3,500,000        100% of foreign
terials for Part                            expenditures,
B (1), (3) and                              100% of local
(4) of the Proj-                            expenditures (ex-
ect                                         factory) and 85%
of local expen-
ditures for lo-
cally procured
imported equip-
ment and materi-
als
(2) Civil works for             3,900,000        60%
Part B (3)
and (4) of the
Project
(3) Consultants' services         400,ooo        100% of foreign
for construction su-                        expenditures
pervision under Part
B of the Project and
for Part C (2) of the
Project
S


﻿- 18 -
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Technical assistance          W00,000        100% of foreign
and related equipment                        expenditures and
and materials for Part                       85% of local ex-
D of the Project                             penditures for
locally procured
imported equip-
ment and mate-
rials
(5) Unallocated                 1,800,000
TOTAL      10,000,000
S


﻿-19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount


﻿- 20 -
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association myj, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to an-
other Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expen-
ditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist (a) the Borrower in strength-
ening the local construction industry in the Borrower's territories,
and (b) the Authority in improving the water supply and sewerage
system in Sana'a, in strengthening its management and staff and in
carrying out feasibility studies of water supply and sewerage for
the cities of Ibb and Dhamar. The Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:   Water Supply
(1) Construction of, and the purchase and installation of
equipment for, about 10 wells.
(2) Purchase and installation of well header and transmission
pipeline to convey water to the headworks.
(3) Purchase and installation of booster pumps at the head-
works to increase the pumping capacity by about 150
liters per second.
(4) Construction of a reservoir with a capacity of about
10,000 cubic meters.
(5) Purchase and laying of distribution pipes.
(6) Purchase and installation of about 18,000 house connec-
tions and about 50 public taps.


﻿- 22 -
(7) Purchase and installation of laboratory equipment.
Part B:   Sewerage
(1) Purchase of sever pipes, materials for about 8,700 house
connections and sever maintenance equipment.
(2) Laying of severs and sewage collectors and installation
of house connections in the most densely populated areas
of Sana'a.
(3) Construction of stabilization ponds with a capacity of
about 65,600 cubic meters per day and an average deten-
tion time of about 25 days.
(4) Construction of, and the purchase and installation of
equipment for, raw sewage and final effluent pumping
stations.
Part C:   Studies, Management Support and Training
(1) Strengthening of the Authority's management and staff
through appropriate support and training.
(2) Carrying out of feasibility studies of water supply and
sewerage for the cities of Ibb and. Dhamar.


﻿- 23 -
Part D:   Local Construction Industry
(1) Preparation of forecasts of required construction indus-
try needs and related manpower and training requirements
and the training of the Borrower's administration offi-
cials in the preparation of tender documents, bidding
procedures and contract supervision.
(2) Provision of a training course for local contractors.
(3) Provision of overseas training for graduate Yemeni civil
engineers.
(4) Provision of iscellaneous equipment and material for
Part D (1) and (2).
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


