Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9233-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RWANDA
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT
MAY 15, 1991
Africa Region
South Central & Indian Ocean Department
Population & Human Resources Division
This documenl has a restricted distsbunton and may be used by recipients orly in the performance of
their officia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwihuWolBakutrzton
Rai                                       wihu Wol Ban authorization



RWANDA: FIRST POPULATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            -           Rwandan Franc (FRW)
US$1.00                  m           FRW 118 (February 1991)
MEASUREMENTS
1 meter                  -            3.28 feet
1 kilometer              -            0.62 mile
1 square kilometer                   0.39 square mile
1 hectare                -            2.47 acres
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA - FISCAL YEAR
January lst - December 31st
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Kigali in October 1990, comprising of Dr. J. Baudouy, Mission Leader; Dr.
A. M. Pierre-Louis, Deputy Mission leader and Task Manager; Mmes M.
Schneidman, Economist, and E. Murray, Financial Analyst. Mr. B. CarLson is
the lead advisor for this operation. Mmes V. Fauconnier, F. Duchesne. F.
Ryckebusch and V. Vaselopoulos provided secretarial support in the
preparation of this report. Messrs. A. Colliou aa'd F. Aguirre-Sacasa are
the Managing Division Chief and the Department Director, respectively for
this operation.



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA: FIRST POPULATION PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDS           Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
ARBEF           Association Rwandaise pour le Bien-Etre Familial (Rwandese
Association for family welfare)
BUFHAR          Bureau des Formations Mddicales Agr6des du Rwanda
(Association of religious NGOs involved in the health
sector in Rwanda)
CBD             Community Based Distribution
CBR             Crude Birth Rate
CCDFP           Centre Communal de Developpement et de Formation Permanente
(Community Center for Developpement and Continuing
Education)
CERAI           Centre d'Enseignement Rural et Artisanal Integr6 (Post-
primary Rural Centers of MINEPRISEC)
CND             Conseil National de Developpement (National Development
Council)
CPS             Contraceptive Prevalence Survey
DHS             Demographic and Health Survey
GTZ             Gesellschaft fUr Technische Zusammenarbeit (German
Cooperation agency)
HC              Health Center
HCR             Haut Co=missariat aux Rafugi6s (United Nations Agency)
HIV             Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IEC             Information, Education and Communication
INTRAH          International Training in Health
EPPF            International Planned Parenthood Federation
IUD             Intra Uterine Device
JOC             Jeunesse Ouvri$re Catholique (Catholic youth workers)
MCH             Maternal and Child Health
MEDIRESA        Medecin Directeur de la Region Sanitaire (Regional Medical.
Officer)
MINIPRESEC      Ministbre de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire
(Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education)
MOH             Ministry of Health
MRND            Mouvement R6volutionnaire National pour le D4veloppement
(National Revolutionary Organization for Development)
MIS             Management Information System
NFP             Natural Family Planning
NFS             National Fertility Survey
NGO             Non Governmental Organization
ONAPO           Office National de la Population
ORINFOR         Office Rwandais d'Information (Rwandese Office of
Information)
PAU             Project Administrative Unit
PHC             Primary Health Care
PHN             Populat ion-Health-Nutrition
TFR             Total Fertility Rate
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
UNFPA           United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNR             Universit4 Nationale du Rwanda
LILMAM          Rwandese Women Xssociation (Association des Femmes
Rwandaises pour le Developpement)
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



RWANDA: FIRST POPULATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA I/
Population (1990)                          7.3 million
Rural 2                               942
Urban Z                                6S
Population growth rate                     3.6Z 21
Population density (per km2)               279  2/
Crude birth rate                           53 per 1000 births  3/
Crude death rate                           18 per 1000 deaths  3/
Infant mortality rate                      122 per 1000
Total fertility rate                       8.5  2/
Contraceptive prevalence
rate (1989, all modern methods)          9?  2/
GNP per capita (1990)                      US$310
Access to primary health care              4O0  of the population 2/
Number of physicians                       272
Number of nurses and medical
assistants                               1271                   2/
Health expenditures as a
percentage of budget                     about 6S               2/
I/   Population and demographic indicators are taken from Population
Reference Bureau, 1990, except where noted.
2/   Data are from 1987 and 1989 ONAPO reports and 1990 HOH annual report
3/ World Develop Report 1990.



RUANDA: FIRST POPULATION PROJECT
DEFINITIONS
Age Specific Fertility Rates               Number of live births to women in
a given age group per 1.000 women
in the same age group, in a given
year.
Contraceptive Prevalence Rates             The percentage of married women of
reproductive age who are using (or
whose husbands are using) any form
of contraception.
Crude Birth Rate:                          The number of births per 1.000
population in a given year.
Crude Death Rate:                          The number of deaths per 1,000
population in a given year.
Dependency Ratio:                          The ratio of the economically
dependent part of the population
to the productive part,
arbitrarily defined as the ratio
of the young (those under 15 years
of age) plus the elderly (those 65
years of age and over) to the
population in the "working ages"
(those 15 to 64 years of age).
Infant Mortality Rate:                     The number of deaths of infants
under one year old in a given year
per 1,000 live births in that
year.
Life Expectancy at Birth:                  The average number of years a
newborn would live if current age-
specific mortality rate trends
prevailing at the time of birth
were to continue.
Net Reproduction Rates                     The average number of daughters
that would be born to a woman (or
group of women) if during her
lifetime she were to conform to
the age specific fertility and
mortality rates of a given year.
A net reproduction rate of 1.00
means that each generation of
mothers is having exactly enough
daughters to replace itself in the
population.



Definitions (Continued)
Rate of Natural Increase:                  The rate at which a population is
increasing (or decreasing) in a
given year due to surplus (or
deficit) of births over deaths
expressed as a percentage of the
base population.
Rate of Population Growth:                 The rate at which a population is
increaring (or decreasing) in a
given year due to natural increase
and net migration expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Total Fertility Rate:                      The average number of children
that would be born alive to a
woman (or group of women) during
her lifetime if during her child-
bearing years she were to bear
children at each age in accordance
with prevailing age-specific
fertility rates.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA: FIRST POPULATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...........................   i-ii
I.   BACKGROUND
A.   Socioeconomic context .....                    ...................   1
B.   The PHN situation ....... ................                           2
II.  POPULATION SECTOR STATUS AND ISSIES
A.   Demographic status .......................                           2
B.   Impact of population growth on socioeconomic
development ...........................................             3
C.   Population policy and family planning activities ........            6
D.   Major sector issues ..........................................    10
E.   Sectoral strategy and Bank's role .......................    13
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project objectives and design ..................    15
B.   Detailed project description ................. ...........    16
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs ............................  25
B.   Incremental Recurrent Costs and Projec; Sustainability ..    26
C.   Financing .................................................    28
D.   Procurement .... . . .... . ...    .          ............. .       29
E.   Disbursement                 ..................    31
V.   PROJECT IMPLEDNTATION
A.   Status of project preparation ...........................    32
B.   Organizacion and management .....        .......................    32
C.   Honitoring and Reporting .... ................... ............    34
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Justification and Benefits              ..............................    35
B.   Risks ..........        .........................................    36
VII,                                    ...................................................  37



RWANDA: FIRST POPULATION PROJECT
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
List of Tables in Text
2.1  Projected population size and growth ..................              3
4.1  Summary accounts cost summary ..............     ....................   25
4.2  Project casts summary by component .............................   26
4.3  Financing plan by disbursement category .....    ...................   28
4.4  Procurement arrangements ...................    ....................   29
4.5 Disbursement schedule ........     ..................................   31
ANNEXES
1 -  TABLES
Table 1:  Rwanda - Population estimates by region
Table 2:  Evolution of population of Rwanda, 1940-1985
Table 3:  Rwanda - Population distribution by age
Table 4:  Rwanda - Estimated population density by region
Table 5:  Number of new accepturs per method and number of health
facilities delivering FP services, 1981-1989
Table 5a: Total number of users and contraceptive mix by method, 1985-90
Table Sb: Total number of users and contraceptive mix, by region
and by method (december 1989)
Table 6:  Distribution of new acceptors per method, 1981-2011
Table 7: Estimation of contraceptive prevalence required to reach
different fertility targets, 1990-2015
Application of the simplified version of Bongaarts Model
Table SA: Ministry of Health and ONAPO recurrent budget
Table 8B: Donors contributions to ONAPO (in RF), 1981-1987
2 -  FIGURES
Fig. 1A:  Organization chart: Ministry of Health
Fig. 1B:  Organization chart: ONAPO
Fig. 2 : Population projections, Rwanda 1990-2015
Fig. 3 : Projection of land availability, 1990-2015
Fig. 4 : Population Program in Rwanda: The effects of a reduction of the
total fertility rate
Fig. 5 : Contraceptive prevalence and total fertility rate in Africa's
seolected countries
3 - Key Project Indicators
4 -  Summary Account by Project Component
Table 1: Improving quality and efficiency of FP services
Table 2s FP post-- equipment and supplies
Table 3: Support to IEC Strategy
Table 4: Volontaires Abegangurambaba



RWANDAt FIRST POPULATION PROJECT
Table of Contents (Continued)
Table 5  Research/development of multisectoral populatien activities
Table 6:  Project management unit SAP
Table 7: Summary Account by Year
Table 7a: Base Costs (thousand of US $)
Table 7b: Totals Including Contingencies (thousand of US $)
Table 7c: Totals Including Contingencies (thousand of FRW)
5 - Research carried out by ONAPO since 1982
6 - Targeted donors intervention in Rwanda
7 - Official declarations on population issues in Rwanda
8 - Project Management: project organizational chart; TOR's of project
coordinator, project advisor, project accountant and procurement
specialist
9 - Terms of reference for the PP posts, the Volunteers and the Health
Canter
10 - Supervision plan
11 - Detailed training plan
12 - Implementation schedule by project component
13 - Estimated schedule of disbursement
14 - Technical assistsnce requirements
15 - Procurement schedule
16 - References
MAP



RWANDA: FIRST POPULATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower        :     Republic of Rwanda
Beneficiaries         Ministry of Health (MOH) and National Office of
Population (Office National de ls Population - ONAPO)
Amount          .      SDR 14.5 million (US$19.6 millic'  equivalent)
Terms                  Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Project Description:
(a) Objectives:
The project will support the implementation of the National
Population Policy and will contribute to: (a) reducing the total fertility
rate (TFR); (b) improving maternal and child health (MCH); and (c)
integrating the demographic dimension in cross-sectoral development
activities. These objectives will be reached by: (a) improving the quality
and efficiency of Family Planning (FP) service delivery; (b) increasing
demand for and access to FP services; (c) carrying out a set of population
studies and strengthening the FP information system; and (d) supporting
multisectoral ectivities within the framework of the national population
policy. Selected demographic targets for 1997 (last year of project
implementation) include (figures for 1990 are in parenthesis): TFR at
7.2(8.5); modern contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) at 20.0 (9.0) and
276,000 FP users (100,000).
(b' CoMponents:
The project will provide for: (a) improvement in quality and
efficiency of FP services through In-service training of approximatively
1,100 health workers, intensification of supervisl and management
procedures and the provision of contraceptives and FF equipment; (b)
expansion and promotion of FP services through the strengthening of 39
existing FP posts and the establishment of 44 new posts as satellites of the
health center network, the mobilization of about 17,500 community volunteers
and the support of a targeted Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
strategy; and (c) implementation of population studies and promotion of
multisectoral population activities through technical assistance, seminars
and operational support.
(c) Benefits and Risks:
By rapidly increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate, the project
will provide micro and macro benefits. At the individual level, reduced
family size and increased birth spacing will have positive health effects on
women and children and will diminish family expenses on schooling, health
care and food. At the national level, the reduction in population pressure
on scarce land resources, fraaile eco systems, limited savings and
employment/ investment capacities will contribute to economic growth. The
first risk is linked to the limited meanagerial capabilities of ONAPO. To
address this risk, a project management structure will be put in place
before credit effectiveness. The second risk is a lack of coordination
between ONAPO and MOI.  To address this risk agreement was reached during
project negotiations, on the implementation of the collaboration mechanisms



ii -
between MOH and ONAPO which have been developed during project preparation.
The third risk relates to the capacity of Rwanda to find appropriate
solutions to the lingering problems of Rwandese refugees in neighboring
countries. Reinsertion of these refugees in Rwanda requires careful
planning and a major support from the international community.
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Local      Foreign        Total
-US$ million
- Improvement of quality &
efficiency FP services                  0.59          5.38          5.97
- Expansion & promotion
of FP services                          7.18          4.52         11.70
- Studies and multi-
sectoral activities                     0.84          0.81          1.65
-  Project management                       0.45         1.22          1.67
Total base costs               9.06         11.93        20.99
Physical contingencies         0.10          1.05         1.15
Price contingencies            2.50          1.46         3.96
Total project costs           11.66         14.44        26.10
Financing Rlan
- IDA                                       8.3         11.3          19.6
- Th.AID 1/                                  --          1.9           1.9
- UNFPA 1/                                   --          1.2           1.2
- Government 2/                             3.4            --          3.4
Total                                      11.7         14.4          26.1
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
FY92      FY93       FY94       FY95       FY96      FY97       PY98
Annual       1.00      6.00       4.00        5.00     2.00        1.20      0.40
Cumulative  1.00       7.00      11.00       16.00    18.00       19.20    19.60
Vi    The figures represent estimates of the contributions of these
agencies to the activities undertaken under this project. Their total
support to population and FP activities in Rwanda is more substantial than
the figures indicated in this table.
2/    Including $64,000 equivalent for taxes.



FIRtST P0PLA&TIO_K0PROECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REOR
I. BACKGROUND
A. Socioeconomic context
1.01        With a GNP per capita estimated at US$310 in 1989, Rwanda
belongs to the group of the world's least developed countries. As common
to poor nations, social conditions are bleaks malnutrition affects many
women and children, maternal and infant mortality are high, illiteracy is
high (60 percent of women are illiterate) and unemployment is a serioas
problem (less than 10 percent of those entering annually the labor maLket
will find formal employmant). What is particular to Rwanda as compared to
other Sub-Saharan African countries (with the exception of neighboring
Burundi which faces a similar situation) is the extremely high population
density and the explosive rate of population growth. With a total
population estimated at 7.3 million in 1989, this small landlocked country
has a population density of 279 people per square kilometer, the highest in
Africa. Such a density puts a heavy pressure on land availability and
agricultural production in this essentially rural economy, where people
live on small farms scattered across the hilly countryside. Population
pressure will increase rapidly as a result of the current population growth
rate of 3.6 percent per year (the fastest growth rate in Africa). At this
rate, the total population will double in twenty years. While trying to
avoid prediction of a doomsday scenario, it is difficult not to be
apprehensive about Rwanda's situation in the year 2010. At that time, with
2 to 3 million job-seekers and landless farmers and a heavily deteriorated
environment, Rwanda could be facing severe internal social unrest and
external tension with neighboring countries unable or unwilling to absorb
large numbers of illegal migrants. The potential resettlement in Rwanda of
thousands of refugees as a result of recent political events will worsen
the population pressure in certain parts of the country.
1.02        On the economic side, the situation is also worrisome.  Rwanda
is essentially an agricultural country, with agriculture accounting for
half of GDP and 75 percent of total export earnings. The nation's balance
of payment situation is heavily dependent upon a single export, coffee.
During the 19709, thanks to high coffee prices o0 the world's market and
prudent government management, Rwanda's economic performance was good,
particularly in comparison with other SSA countries. However, in the 19809
the situation progressively deteriorated for several reasons. The price of
coffee fell and is not likely to rise in the near future. The government,
by keeping a tight control on £11 segments of the economy, failed to make
the productive sectors responsive to a new economic environment. Finally,
an important compounding factor was the rapid population growth which
largely outstripped government's capabilities in terms of investment and
job creation. Confronted since the early eighties with the necessity to



°2-
take adjustment measures, the government delayed its decision until the
situation became economically and socially unbearable and therefore more
difficult to improve. In 1990, the Government finally agreed on a policy
framework paper with the IMF and the Bank, and more recently adjusted its
exchange rate, and liberalized most prices.
B. The PHN situation
1.03        Since the last population health and nutrition (PHN) sector
report (1984), certain PHN indicators have improved, including an
increase in life expectancy from 46 years in the early 1980s to almost
50 in 1990, mostly due to a decrease in under-five mortality from 230
per thousand in 1980 to 196 per thousand in 1990. On the other hand,
several Indicators have worsened, such as the total fertility rate (TFR)
which increased to 8.5 in 1989 from 7.4 in the early 1980s. As a
result, the annual population growth rate has increased from 3.3 percent
in 1980 to 3.6 percent in 1989. The maternal mortality rate is still
high, averaging 300 per 100,000 live births in health facilities. Food
insecurity and widespread malnutrition are becoming major concerns. The
food production per capita index which was estimated at 98 in 1980 was
reduced to 87 in 19861/. The prevalence of moderate child
malnutrition has reached 37 percent in 1989 (weight-for-age below 80
percent of Harvard Standard)j/. Between 5 and 10 percent of the
children are severely malnourished (weight-for-age below 60 percent of
Harvard Standard). Adult malnutrition is likely to become a serious
problem in the future. In addition, two major public health problems
have emerged: malaria (680,000 new cases reported in 1987 as compared to
85,000 in 1976) and AIDS (more than 20 percent of R.dults living in urban
areas are seropositire) which have the potential ti cause severe human
and econcmic losses.
II. POPULA2ION SECTOR STATUS MN ISSUMS
A. Demogra2hic status
2.01        Demographic characteristics.  The 1978 census estimated the
population size at 5.6 million. The population is now estimated at 7.3
million, which implies an &verage annual population growth rate of
1/    Index of daily supply of foods per capita expressed in calorie
with the average of 1979-81 as bars index.
V/    Harvard Standard is a reference populatlon table derLved from a
sample study of relatively well nourlshad Caucasian chlIdren in
USA. The data are expressed ln percentlles of weLght for age and
height for age.  Boston or Harvard reference population data have
ben used in designing weight for age growth monitorlng charts in
LatLn America, AsLa and Africa.



-3-
approximately 3.3 percent for the period 1978-90. The Total Fertllity
Rate (TFR) of 8.5 is the highest in Africa (Annex IS, Figure 5). On the
other hand, mortality has continued to decline during the last 30 years.
The Crude Birth Rate (CBR) was estimated at 51 per 1000 in 1990 and the
crude death rate at 17 per 1000. With its young age structure (46
percent of the population is under 15 years of age; (Annex I, Table 3).
the population has an extremely high demographic momentum as shown in
the projections below. If fertility remained constant, population
growth rate would increase to 3.8 between year 2000 and 2010.
2.02        Population _rowth.  Population projections for the period
1980-2010 have been prepared by the World Bank. The total population is
projected to reach approximately 10 million by the year 2000, even with
an effective FP program underway. The following table reflects the
population growth (in absolute numbers, assuming no migration):
Table 2.1: Proiected population size and arowth
------------------------------------------------------------------
Projections                          Population (in million)
1990              2000        2010
3------- -------- -------     ----__
Constant fertility            7.15               10.48       15.54
Moderate fertility decline    7.15               10.34       14.44
Rapid fertility decline       7.15                9.63       11.91
Growth rates            1990-2000         2000-2010
Constant fertility                     3.8                3.9
Moderate fertility decline                                3.6
Rapid fertility decline                                   2.9
…----------------.-----------------------------------------------__----_
Source: World Bank Projections. 1990.
B.  Impact of population growth o  socioeconomic development
2.03        Envirorment.  The rapid population growth has forced people
to occupy new land at the expense of natural forests, the size of which
has decreased by 25 percent over the last 20 years, despite the
reforestation program being implemented by the government. The demand
for fuelwood (the main source of household energy) will triple in 25
years if the TFR and other conditions remain constant. Fuelwood
deficits will increase the workload of women (and children) who are
traditionally responsible for wood gathering. They would have to walk
further and spend more time collecting it from increasingly distant
areas. The size of cultivated land has increased significantly at the
expense of pasture land, in order to meet the nutritional requirements
of a fast growing population. Utilization of marginal land (slopes,



-4-
swamps) is creating erosion problems despite government efforts to
implemenc conservation measures; it is estimated that 10 tons of soil
per hectare are lost every year. Overall, the environmental impact of
population growth is severe and can only worsen in the near future.
2.04        Agriculture.  Agricultural land availability is becoming a
crucial problem, particclarly in the southern part of the country. The
density of population per square kilometer of land has significantly
increased since 1970, reaching 279 in 1990 (Annex I, Table 4). With the
projected population growth. the situation will worsen: while there is
currently between 5 and 6 persons per cultivable hectare of land, in
2015 16 persons would have to share a single hectare. At the moment,
approximately 1.2 million rural families live on farms with less than
1.0 hectare of productive land (Annex II, figure 3). This situation has
led to a reduction in family farm size beyond sustainability and an
exhaustion of soils by abandonment of fallow periods in parts of the
country. While in the past 20 years, Rwandese farmers have been able to
keep pace with population growth, this equilibrium may be reaching its
limits. Traditional methods of agriculture, even well applied, do not
have the necessary productivity to respond any longer to a doubling in
food 4emand in a period of 20 years. The outbreak of famine in 1989,
affecting more than 600,000 people (almost 10 percent of the population)
in the southern and eastern parts of the country, has brutally
illustrated the fact that, in some areas of the country, current
agricultural production is not sufficient to meet the demand for food.
2.05        Health Status.  The high population growth rate (and to a
certain extent the high population density) has several adverse effects
on the health sector. First, the population pressure is an important
contributing factor to the two major public health problems emerging in
Rwanda-spreading malaria and the AIDS epidemic. In order to find
available land, large groups of people (currently estimated at 500,000)
have migrated from malaria-free highlands (the parasite does not breed
above a certain altitude) to lower lands where malaria is highly
prevalent. These migrants do not have yet a natural immunity to malaria
and are affected by the most severe forms of the disease, with resulting
high morbidity and mortality rates.  As for AIDS, the high population
density has increased rural-urban and urban-rural flows of population,
thereby increasing the potential for the transmission of the disease to
rural areas (usually less affected). Second, on the nutrition
situation, while export earnings are insufficient to buy the necessary
quantity of imported food, the population pressure has led Rwanda to a
situation of permanent food insecurity: the country's current
agricultural resources are increasingly insufficient to feed the entire
population; there are no open land frontiers left; and households
without land (or with very small holdings) cannot bring new land under
production. Thus, even if per capita food production rose sharply,
these households would not benefit without redistribution of productive
land which may be politically difficult. Any regional imbalance caused
by poor weather or a food crop disease could trigger a famine situation.
Third, the high risk pregnancies experienced by most Rwandese women are



a major cause of the high maternal mortality and the high infant and
child mortality and morbidity.
2.06        Investment Needs.  The rapid population growth rate imposes
a high investment rate to respond to social and employment needs of the
population. In the Educrtion Sector, schools should be built for the
large number of children entering each year the schooling system. The
government does not have sufficient resources to finance capital and
operating costs of these new structures. In the absence of external
funding and increased financial participation of the population
(difficult to increase given the poor economic situation) the quality of
education will start deteriorating: overcrowded classrooms are not
propitious for improving the quality of teaching. Ultimately,
enrollment rates will start diminishing. A study on the cost and
financing of primary and secondary school conducted by the Bank in 1989,
indicates that the primary school enrollment rate, already low today at
64 percent, might decrease to 43 percent over the next 10 years assuming
that the population growth rate and the present policies in the
education sector remain constant. In order to maintain this enrollment
rate, the government has recently decided (February 91) to reduce
primary education from 8 to 6 years. In the Health Sector, -he
situation is somewhat similar with the population growth rate imposing
an expansion in health services beyond the government capabilities.
This is felt already in certain areas, both urban and rural. For
example, in Kigali, the capital city, certain wards of the central
hospital are largely overcrowded and cannot deliver an adequate quality
of care. In certain rural areas, there is no primary health care
infrastructure at a reasonable distance and no plan to build one given
the lack of financial resources.
2.07         In the Emplovment Sector, the population pressure is
strongly felt. Since the economic situation precludes any rapid
increase in employment demand, curbing the rate of growth of the working
age population by effective family planning programs appears as a high
priority. Assuming no reduction in the total fertility rate, the number
of new entrants in the labor market will incr-ase from l30,000 per year
in 1990, to 360,000 per year in 2015. Rwanda's economy will have major
difficulties in absorbing this work force. As mentioned before, the
formal sector can only offer a limited number of job oppcrtunities and
would require large resetructuring and investments to increase its
employment potential. This is unlikely to occur rapidly. The informal
sector is poorly developed in Rwanda mainly because the Government has
kept, until recently, a tight control on most productive activities and
the urban sector (where informal activities usually flourish) is very
small. Finally, the agricultural sector, which absorbs most human
resources, is becoming acutely saturated and there are not many off-farm
employment opportunities.



C. Population Policy and Family PFlanning Activities,
Population Policy
1.08        Rwanda has been among the first African countries to
initiate discussions on population issues. As early as 1966, the
government had expressed increasing concern about rapid population
growth. At first, efforts were mostly concentrated on the improvement
of the nation's economic productivity, but in 1974 an advisory committee
was created to study socio-demographic problems. As a result, in the
second economic plan (1977-81). the emphasis was shifted from analysis
to strategies aimed at reducing the population growth rate.
2.09        On several public occasions (official speeches in 1974;
International Conference on Population in Mexico, 1984; in 1987 for the
25th anniversary of the Independence of the Country), the President of
the Republic underlined the necessity to curb the country's explosive
population growth rate. In his 198S annual address, he advocated a
family size of 4 children by the year 2000 (Annex VII, last para.).
More recently (July 1990), he took for the first time a stronger
official stand on the issue, stating that 'People must limit the number
of children they have or there will be no room for thema. A recent
breakthrough in the sector is the adoption of the Population Policy on
June 6, 1990 by both the Party (Moivement R4volutionnaire National pour
le D4veloppement) and the Parliament (Conseil National de
DAvelooPement). The stated objective of the policy is to reduce the
population growth rate from 3.6 to 2 percent by the year 2000. The
decision of formalizing the population policy seems to have been
prompted by the President's visit to the southeastern famine areas in
March 1990. In addition, as shown by the minutes of recent meetings and
seminars attended by decision makers and political leaders, a wide
consensus had been building up on the necessity of forcefully addressing
the population problem. This was further emphasized during the recent
political events, with the President repeatedly mentioning population
pressure as the major underlying factor of Rwandese problems. The
National Population Office (Office National de la Population - ONAPO)
has been instrumental in preparing the ground work for establishing a
broad-based population policy. ONAPO has now been given the mandate to
coordinate and support the implementation of this policy.
2.10         ONAPO and itE  -lving role.  Created in 1982, ONAPO is a
parastatal agency with f'. ..cial and administrative autonomy, whose
mandate is to collect population data, propose population policies and
support action programs. Previously under the umbrella of the Ministry
of Social Affairs it is now attached to the Ministry of Health (Annex
II, Figure lA). Since its creation, ONAPO has received strong support
from USAID, and thereafter from UNRPA and, to a lesser extent from GTZ
(German Corporation) and other internat4onal agencies. An
administrative board is appointed for  .gee years, renewable by the
President of the Republic. ONAPO is divided ito three main departments:
(a) the financial and administrative department (which includes general
accounting, management and procurement): (b) the study and program



* 7 -
department (which includes research, evaluation, fsmily planning and
communicationp); and (c) the general administration department (which
includes personnel management) (Annex 11, Figure 1B). From 1981 to
1989, ONAPO's personnel grew from 50 to 250 employees (including 110
high level staff). In addition to the central bureau, ONAPO has offices
in all 11 regions of the country. The regional teams (which include 23
high level staff altogether) are responsible for developing and
integrating FP services at the health center level, and for carrying out
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) and multisectoral
activities. ONAPO has also a training center (built with USAID funding)
which is expected to progressively acquire a regional focus with the
support of the World Health Organization (WHO) and the African
Development Bank (AfDB). ONAPO's operating budget comes from two main
sources: government allocation (30 percent, mostly salaries) and
external aid (70 percent) (Annex VIII a and b).
2.11        ONAPO's efforts have followed a three-pronged strategy: (i)
to increase awareness of decision makers, political leaders and the
general public on the seriousness of thA population issue and the need
to address it; (ii) to improve the data base on population-related
development issues and demographic indicators; and (iii) to support the
implementation of an effective FP program, in collaboration with the
Ministry of Health (MOH). Initially, ONAPO has concentrated its efforts
towards sensitization and information activities. It has been
successful in convincing decision makers to include demographic
objectives in development plans, and more recently to formulate a formal
population policy. ONAPO has also been effective in educating political
leaders about population problems through seminars, mass media and
several widely distributed publications. With regard to the general
public, ONAPO has established a vast information, education and
communication (IEC) program aimed at raising general awareness on
population issues and the benefits of using family planning (PP). More
recently, ONAPO has assisted the Ministry of Education in introducing
population-related issues in the curricula of primary schools, together
with the sensitization of school teachers and post-primary rural centers
(CERAIs) personnel.
2.12        On studies and statistics, ONAPO has consolidated the data
base on socio-demographic issues as a first step to the design of the
population policy. Studies such as the national fertility survey (NFS)
and the impact of population on health, nutrition, food security and
economic development, have been carried out (Annex V). ONAPO is
currently involved in the preparation of the 1991 census and the
implementation of a demographic and health survey (DHS) with USAID
support. Finally, ONAPO has also implemented in the northern region of
the country (Ruhengeri), with assistance from Columbia University, a
successful operational research project on community participation in FP
activities (OR/FP). All these findings have been incorporated in the
population policy statement which was adopted in June 1990.
2.13        ONAPO is supporting the implementation of FP services within
the MOH facilities by providing the necessary contraceptives, equipment



and FP training. Joint ONAPO/MOH supervisions of these services are
carried out from the central and regional levels. ONAPO has been
reasonably successful in carrying out its tasks of sensitization, policy
formulation and data collection.   However, the support of PP activities
has, so far, produced generally disappointing results (para. 3.16),
after nearly a decade of family planning activities. The reasons for
this limited impact are multiple, but three factors are particularly
important. First, the poor performance of the public health facilities
in integrating modern FP services into basic health services diminishes
the effectiveness and quality of FP activities and explains part of the
unmet demand for contraceptives. Second, the Catholic ch4rch9s position
on modern contraception has slowed down the growth of both demand for
and supply of modern FP services because about 402 of PHC services are
delivered by Catholic health facilities (see para. 2.21). Third, an
insufficient demand for modern FP services from a population which
remains traditional and pro-natalist.
Family Planning Activities
2.14         Demand for FP services.  Data from the national fertility
survey (1983) show that there is an unmet demand for PP services: 20
percent of the women aged 15-40 years in the sample did not want an
additional child; 31 percent of the same age group said they intended to
use contraception in the future. More recent data will be available
soon when the on-going USAID-supported demographic and health survey
(DHS) would have been completed. It is most likely that unmet demand is
higher now than in 1983 because the population pressure has dramatically
increased, much faster than FP services availability. However, despite
this potential demand and the significant amount of resources already
allocated to FP activities, the access of the population to modern
contraceptive methods has been inadequate (para 2.21).
2.15         The Rwandese legislation is generally favorable to the
promotion of family planning, even if the Civil Code tends to
overemphasize the authority of the wife's father and husband over
personal decisions. The new family code under preparation is expected
to provide more freedom for women to have access to modern contraceptive
methods regardless of their legal status (married or single).
2.16         F? service deliverX.  With assistance from ONAPO, the number
of MOH facilities providing FP services increased from 25 to 182 during
1981-90, with over 80 percent of public health facilities currently
delivering PP services. ONAPO also played a particularly useful role in
providing assistance to health centers operated by non-Catholic NGOs,
which have demonstrated receptiveness in promoting FP. with close to 68
percent of these facilities now providing these services. While this
expansion in the number of facilities providing PP services is
impressive, there is considerable concern over the quality of those
services, which is generally believed to be inadequate due to the lack
of motivation and poor training of health personnel. As the number of
facilities providing services rose, the total number of contraceptive
users grew from about 5,000 in 1981 to roughly 21,000 in 1985 and to



9 .
64,500 in 1989, which corresponds to an estimated modern Contraceptive
Prevalence Rate (CPR) of 6 percent. Preliminary estimates for 1990
suggest that a boom is occurring with the number of users climbing to
about 100,000, which corresponds to a CPR of about 9 percent and
represents a 60 percent increase over the previous year. The major
factor which seems to explain this rapid increase is the Government's
staunch commitment to the FP program and the general public's awareness
of shrinking land and increasing costs of living. During the past year,
Rwandese authorities have placed this critical issue high on the
political agenda. and have supported the elaboration and dissemination
of a demographic policy paper. IEC activities were also intensified and
the political network was well utilized to disseminate messages to the
periphery, providing a more conducive environment for program
implementation.
2.17        The evolution in the contraceptive mix during 1985-89 is
characterized by a large expansion of injectables (from 48 to 70
percent) and corresponding declines in other methods such as pills (from
38 to 21 percent) and ZUDs (from 12 to 3 percent). Barrier methods
(i.e., condoms) still remain relatively unpopular (3 percent, 1989), and
the AIDS epidemic does not appear to have given a boost to condom use.
The promotion of highly effective FP methods such as sterilization and
implants, is still at an early stage. In 1988, 332 tubal ligations
(female sterilizati.x) and 4 vasectomies (male sterilization) were
performed. Norplant trials3/ are being conducted in major hospitals
in Rwanda, with the number of acceptors currently estimated at 460
(1990). The contraceptive mix during 1990 reflects a slight decline in
injectables and an increase in pill use, as the MOH is striving to
broaden the range of methods. Although illegal, abortion is reportedly
widespread; but the abortion rate is difficult to estimate.
2.18        NGOs activities.  NGOs of religious organizations play a key
role in the provision of Health Care in Rwanda. The eight protestant
churches and the Catholic Church have associated to create the Bureau
des Formations M6dicales Agr44es du Rwanda (BUFMAR), a central
management unit which provides medical supplies, logistic support and
training to the 129 health facilities run by the churches. The
collaboration between BUFMAR and MOH is good, although MOH does not
perceive NGOs activities as an essential element of the national health
strategy. Facilities run by the Protestant churches and other non-
Catholic organizations provide modern methods of contraception; some of
them have developed successful FP programs and collaborate closely with
ONAPO. BUFMAR has been very active in IEC/FP activities and has
produced audio-visual material to sensitize the population on the use of
3/    Norplant is an effective long-acting reversible hormonal
contraceptive that provides protection for 5 years. Six thin
flexible pellets made of soft silicone rubber and filled with a
synthetic hormone &re inserted just under the skin of a woman's
upper arm in a minor surgical procedure.



a 10 -
modern contraceptive methods. It also organizes refresher courses in
maternal and child health/family planning (HCHF/P) for its personnel.
The non-catholic NGO overall impact on the sector is, however, limited
due to the important share of Catholic health centers (which offer only
natural family planning methods).
2.19        The Rwandese Association for Family Welfare (ARBEF), the
Rwanoese branch of IPPFi/, was created in 1986. The organization,
which has become active only recently, counts presently 2000 members and
supports IEC training activities aimed at the youth (part of these
activities will be sponsored by USAID). It provides limited
contraceptive sup<lies to ONAPO. In the long run, the association is
expected to become increasingly involved in FP service delivery.
2.20        Other ministries and government agencies.  Other ministries
and government agencies provide limited support to ONAPO's program. The
Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Youth and the Ministry of
Agriculture as well as other Government structures (Mouvement
Rovolutionnaire National pour le Developpement, MRND; Union des Femmes
Rwandaises pour le D4veloppement, URAMA; Office Rwandais d'Information.
ORINFOR) do not have a direct input into population/health programs.
However, in many instances, ONAPO and MOH have used agents of these
ministries and organizations, their physical structures and logistics to
further enhance the IEC programs and the expansion of FP activities.
D. Maior Sector Issues
2.21 Access to FP services. Approximately 60 percent of the population
do not have easy access to modern FP services. The lack of access is
due to the insufficient geographical coverage provided by MOH facilities
(see below) and the unavailability of modern contraceptive methods in
Catholic health facilities (which provide health services to
approximately 408 of the population). While recognizing that rapid
population growth is a major problem in Rwanda, the Catholic church
discourages the population from using modern FP methods despite the
President's appeal to all churches (July 1987) to leave the decision
regarding adoption of PP principles up to individual couples. However,
the Catholic church facilities do promote actively the use of Natural
Family Planning (NFP) methods. This activity should be encouraged, even
in MOH facilities, since it increases the range of FP methods available
to Rwandese couples. Access to FP services is also limited by the fact
that: (a) approximately 13 percent of public health centers (30) do not
provide FP services; and (b) approximately 40-0SO percent of the
population does not have easy access to health facilities (given the
mountainous configuration of the country).
4/    international Planned Parenthood Federation, based in London, Ls
the largest international NGO involved in population and FP
activities.



2.22        Quality of FP services.  The quality of PP services
currently provided in health facilities is severely hampered by
insufficient training and inadequate supervision of health workers, and
frequent shortages of contraceptive supplies. In 1986, out of
approximately 2,120 professionals (health and social workers) in Rwanda
who should be able to deliver FP services only 14 percent had been
formally trained in FP. In addition, the health workers have not fully
integrated FP services into their routine tasks (as is the case for
other primary health care activities such as immunization and oral
rehydration therapy). Many health centers at the peripheral level are
understaffed and give priority to curative services at the expense of
preventive services such as PP which requiree relatively long and good
interpersonal relationship and adequate counselling. At the central
level, the MCH/FP division of MOH includes two technicians who are
already overwhelmed by the task of implementing MCH programs countrywide
and do not promote FP activities. Shortages of modern contraceptives
(resulting from inadequate contraceptive management practices as well as
from lack of financial resources) have been one of the major weaknesses
of the program since 1981, and ONAPO organized in March 1990 a round
table discussion to address this issue with the donor community.
2.23        Demand for PP services.   According to the findings of the
USAID-supported Fertility Survey (1983), the average ideal family size
stated by the Rwandese women was 6.3 children5/. This figure is
significantly higher than the 4 children per family suggested by the
President, but considerably lower than the current TFR of 8.5. Several
socio-cultural, economic and religious factors explain the desire to
have numerous children. The factors most often cited include: (a) the
fact that children represent an important workforce at the family level,
particularly in rural areas: the young boys partlcipating in
agricultural work and the girls contributing to fuelwood and water
gathering, care of younger siblings and other domestic chores; (b) the
need for parents to have children (particularly male) as Qsocii
security" later in life: (c) the male having the prerogative for
fertility decision-making; (d) the traditional African religions which
encourage high fertility; (e) the influence of the Catholic church which
discourages the use of moderm contraception; (f) the fear of side-
effects (particularly sterility) of modern methods of contraception; and
(g) the high child mortality rates which lead parents to have as many
children as possible. However, there are certain indications that the
populationgs perception is slowly changing, even among the older
generation. This change is primarily due to the awareness of land
shortage, the culturally shocking fact that many male offspring cannot
inherit a piece of land when they get married, and to the famine
situation which prevailed in parts of the country in 1989. In addition,
the rapidly increasing cost of schooling, child health care and
nutrition is becoming an incentive to reduce the family size.
5"/ The results of the demographic and health eurvoy (DHS) being
carried out may reveal a different trend.



- 12 -
2.24        Demographic impact of the AIDS epidemic.  The high
prevalence rate of HIV infection in Rwanda, particularly in urban areas
where it reaches 24 percent of men and womeu& between the ages of 15 and
49, raises certain important questions, including that of the potential
impact of this epidemic. A simplistic and cynical assessment already
expressed in certain non-scientific publications can be sumuarized as
follows: what is the need for investing resources and efforts in large
fertility reduction programs when the AIDS epidemic will take care of
the problem? The reality, however, is much more complex. Mathematical
models have been developed by several researchers (including the Bank)
to assess the demographic impact of AIDS based on various assumptions.
These projections give diverse results, from a major reduction in
population growth to a minimal population impact. This diversity is due
to the uncertainties regarding changes in sexual behavior, which is the
major determinant of AIDS transmission in developing countries.
Noneti.eless, even with the worst case scenario -- in which the incidence
of the disease (new cases of infection per year) would continue
unabated, and modern contraception would not be used -- a 3.6 percent
population growth rate (like the one in Rwanda) would be reduced to 2.0
percent in about 25 years, still high eno%gh to allow the total
population to double within the next 35 years. Further studies and
close monitoring are needed to assess the validity of various
assumptions on the shape of the epidemic curve and to analyze the
population's response to the AIDS-induced excess mortality.
2.25        Costs and Financing of the Population Program.  The
expansion of FP services and the development of multisectoral population
activities require sizeable financial investments. Bilateral and
multilateral aid accounts for the major share of ONAPO's budget. This
aid contributes also significantly to PP service delivery in MOH
structures. From 1982-1988, USAID's contribution acrounted for almost
70 percent of all external aid in the population sector. However,
USAID, the major sponsor of population activities in the country, does
not provide injectable contraceptives which are by far the most popular
contraceptive method currently used in Rwanda. Other donors, like GTZ,
UNICEF, WHO, and UNFPA contribute significantly in specific regions of
the country to the implementation of ONAPO's programs (Annex I, table
8).   The other donors' contributions will become increasingly
insufficient to cover the incremental recurrent costs required for the
nationwide expansion of the FP program.
2.26           e refugee problem and its impact,  In early 1991, at the
government's request, ONAPO prepared an analysis of the national impact
of the potential resettlement of thousands of Rwandese refugees living
in neighboring countries. The analysis concluded that: a) the number of
refugees to resettle might reach 450.000, which is the average
population of a region in Rwanda, thereby increasing the population
pressure in certain parts of the country; b) off-farm employment will
have to be created since land availability is already a problem in the
country; and c) new investments would be needed, particularly in the
social sectors, to meet the needs of resettlement. A regional meeting
to discuss the refugee problem took place in February 1991 in Tanzania.



13 -
The Governaent of Rwanda has agreed to welcome, once some prerequisites
are met, all the refugees who want to return to their homeland. It has
made an appeal to the international community to support this effort and
to the United Nation High Commission for Refugees (HCR) to coordinate
all aspects of the resettlement.
E. Sectoral Strategy and Bank's Role
2.27        Sectoral StrategX.  The government has established a set of
ambitious demographic objectives, including the reduction of the
population growth rate to 2 percent by the year 2000 (see pava 3.02).
While difficult to reach, the objectives represent a strong political
statement and show a formal commitment to addressing forcefully the
population issue. The first objective is to increase rapidly the
contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR), by simultaneously stimulating
demand and responding to the demand by provision of adequate FP
services. For the past years, in order to reach this objective, the
government had adopted a two-pronged strategy: the promotion of demand
was ONAPO's mandate and the supply of FP services was the MOH's
responsibility. While ONAPO has been relatively successful in carrying
out its mandate, the MOH has had many problems in expanding FP
activities nationwide, for the reasons described on sectoral issues (see
para. 2.22 and 2.23). The government, aware of the MO0H's constraints,
has decided to expand ONAPO's mandate with the technical task of
directly assisting the MOH in improving the quality and the coverage of
FP services. This decision is justified by the relative institutional
strength of ONAPO which can devote a large share of its resources to the
improvement of FP services while the MOH has many other areas to cover.
Another comparative advantage of ONAPO is its potential for establishing
multisectoral action programs and expanding PP activities beyond the
public sector network (NGOs, communities, private enterprises).
2.28        On the basis of its new mandate, ONAPO's management has
prepared a comprehensive work program whose main elements are tot (a)
ensure the integration of the population variable in sectoral plans; (b)
develop, in collaboration with other ministries and agencies,
multisectoral activities which will address the issue of population
growth; (c) organize training seminars and workshops for staff involved
in population activities; (d) expand FP service delivery and increase
the quality of these services; (e) strengthen the IEC program; (f)
increase the involvement of the community in population activities; and
(g) strengthen the population data base and analytical capabilities and
incorporate research findings in economic plans.
2.29        The Bank's role.  IDA support to PHN activities started in
1982 with a pilot population component in a rural development project.
The small-scale population activities implemented under this component
allowed the Bank to develop a direct understanding of the population
problems of Rwanda and establish at an early stage a good working
relationship with ONAPO. This operation was followed by the family
health project (US$10.8 million) which became effective in February



- 14 -
1987. The objectives of the first health project are: (a) to improve
the quality and increase the coverage of maternal and child health
(MCH)/FP services; (b) to emphasize nutrition activities and integrate
them into primary health care activities; (c) to strengthen the
institutional capabilities of MOB at the central and regional level: and
(d) to increase the output and improve the quality of basic medical
training. In this on-going operation, population issues have been
addressed in two ways: strengthening the MCH/FP package delivery systems
through the network of public health centers and assisting ONAPO in
carrying out certain population studies. The most important findings
from the_implementation exRerience of the family health project which
have been taken into account in the project design are the following:
(a) the strengthening of family planning services and their integration
into the MCH act.vities (pre-natal, peri-natal, post-natal care,
nutrition) have been slower than expected, mainly because MOH does not
have the internal resources and institutional capabilities to provide
the necessary improvements (i.e. adequate training, supervision,
organization and monitoring) to MCH/FP service delivery - this finding
has led the government to develop with Bank's assistance a more forceful
and focused approach, wf.th the Minister of Health deciding to design a
separate population project to be iuiplemented by ONAPO - and (b) the
inadequacy of overall local project management resulted in a slow
disbursement rate, and underlined the need for a long-term technical
assistance to provide support to the management, monitoring and
implementation of project activities.
2.30        In this new approach, the Bank's objective is essentially to
support ONAPO's leading role in implementing the national population
policy and assist the MOB's efforts to expand access to and use of FP
services. The proposed operation will mobilize the necessary MOB
managerial resources towards specific population objectives without
diverting staff from their basic and complementary goal of establishing
a satisfactory PHC network where FP services can be efficiently
delivered. IDA's resources will be used ln close coordination with
other donors support to avoid any duplication of efforts. IDA's support
has been requested by the Government as a result of new awareness
prompted by the degradation of social status in the country (including
the recent famine already mentioned) and by a cost/benefit analysis of
the national Family Planning program. The analysis, carried out by
ONAPO with the Triangle Institute's support (see para. 6.03), shows the
significant financial benefits to be gained from supporting such a
program. The proposed population project, with its ultimate goal of
reducing the population growth rate, represents an essential element of
the Bank's lending strategys in the absence of reducing the population
growth rate, adjustment efforts will be ineffective in inducing
sustainable economic growth.



- 15 -
11 . THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives and Design
3.01        The proposed project will provide comprehensive support to
the implementation of the national population policy. It will focus
primarily on meeting the existing demand for family planning services,
while stimulating further demand for those services. This approach is
consistent with one of the key recommendations of the national
environmental action plan (NEAP). i.e. a  greater accessibility to
family planning services. The overall project objectives are to
contribute to: (a) the reduction of the total fertility rate from 8.5 to
about 7.2 by 1997; (b) a decrease in maternal and child mortality and
morbidity related to reductions of birth intervals and to other risk
factors such as extreme age (women below '5 or above 35-40 years of
age); and (c) the integration of the demographic dimension in the
overall socioeconomic planning process. These objectives will be
reached bys (a) improving the quality an.d efficiency of FP services; (b)
increasing demand for and access to FP services, to ultimately reach a
modern contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) of 20 percent by 1997
compared to the current level of abo-jt 9 percent6/; and (c) carrying
out a set of population studies and analyses - the results of which will
assist in translating the nationat population policy into multisectoral
action plans. In order to carry out successfully these activities,
ONAPO will collaborate closely with the Ministry of Health (OH) and
other relevant ministries. The project will build upon the experience
gained in projects financed by other donors in the sector (USAID, UNFPA,
GTZ) and will complement their activities.  It was designed taking into
account the lessons from experience under the ongoing Family Health
project (para. 2.29).
3.02        The government in its population policy statement has set
out a number of ambitious family planning targets. The demographic
targets to be reached by 2000 include: (a) the decrease in the total
fertility rate by 0.5 percent every year until 1997 and by 1.0 percent
thereafter; (b) the reduction of the population growth rate from 3.6
percent to 2 percent; and tc) the increase in life expectancy from 50
years to 53.5 years.  While these targets are extremely difficult to
achieve within the time frame allotted, they nevertheless should provide
an impetus to the program, by motivating providers and users.  The
medium-term objective to reach a contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) of
about 20 percent by 1997 takes into account the recent increasing trends
in IP use and the substantial additional resources to be provided by the
donor community (including this project). To attain a Total Fertility
6/    While thle target mlght appear timid, partlcularly ln view of
rapid progress made in the past two years, it is consistent with
experiences of other Afrlcan countries where the CPR rose
relatively rapldly and much alower thereafter. During the mid-
term evaluation of the project, if it becomes clear that by 1997
tho 20% CPR wlll be reached, adjustment will be made accordingly.



- 16 °
Rate (TFR) of about 6.4 children per woman (compared to 8.5 in 1985)
after the turn of the century, the CPR would need to increase to about
3e percent by 2005. These targets have been calculated on the basis of
a series of simulations carried out to evaluate the impact of a
reduction in ,ertility on contraceptive use and birthb averted over the
period 1990-2015.  The simulations were done using the sixalified
version of the Bongaarts kodel7/. The projections assume thats (i) no
changes will occur in the contraceptive mix and effectiveness; and (ii)
changes in marriage patterns and breast-feeding practices will have
offsetting effects. To the extent that the duration and intensity of
breast-feeding will decline more rapidly, the number of contraceptive
users would have to be even higher to reach the same fertility target.
If the CPR targets are achieved, it would imply an estimated 226,000 and
382,000 users by 1995 and 2000 respectively. These projections reflect
more than a two-fold increase in the number of users during the next 5-
year period. The births averted annually through the family planning
program would increase from about 23,000 in 1989 to 88,000 in 1995, and
to 145,000 in 2000.
B. Detailed Project-Description
Part A: !mproyAnmthe guality and the Efficie                   ices.
3.03        The broad objectives of this coiiponent are tot (a) increase
the quantity and quality of FP services del.i,vered by health facilities;
and (b) ensure an effective and efficient i.uegration of PP into PHC
activities through the health center netsrvx. The specific component
objectives are to: (a) improve the capalbill.i-y of health staff to deliver
and manage FP services offered at the healttA *:enter level (including
outreach activities) through basic and on-Lhe->job training programs, -'nd
regular supervision vi:its; (b) improve the '!natitutional capability ..f
1OH/ONAPO staff to desizjn, monitor, and eval-;,te FP training activities;
(c) provide medical and non-.medical equipxen'e 0o 60 priority public and
NGO health centers and hc9pitals which do not %enefit ftom any external
support; and (d) strengthen the logistic systet.. mainly the procurement
and management of contraceptive supplies. The: tnmily health section of
ONAPO, in close collaboration with the Direction de MEdecine Intggr*e of
MOB, will have primary reep3nsibility for implementing this component.
Field monitoring will be the responsibility of the regional team (HOH
medical officer and ONAPO medical representative).
3.04        Trainina of health personnel.  The project will support the
training of coveral categories of health personnel, Including medical
assistants, nurses, nurse-aids and auxiliaries. The training program
will complement other donors' e.Cforts and will be organized along five
7/    Soo Annex I tablo 7 for a deacriptlon of modol, acsumptiono and
detailed eosulto.



-17 .
major themes: (i) managerial techniques to set up a FP clinic in a
health center, including patient processing, scheduling of activities,
supply management, data record5.ng and reporting; (ii) communication
techniques, including first interviews of potential acceptors,
counselling and follow-up of users. promotion strategies and person-to-
person communication skills; (iii) appropriate use of contraceptive
technologies, including natural family planning methods (this module
will enhance health personnel skills in the selection of adequate
contraceptive methods for each specific case and the control of
potential side effects); (iv) outreach activities towards the community
served by the health center, with a specific focus on strategies to
supervise a network of volunteers; and (v) the integration of PP
services into MCH activities. Throughout the duration of the project,
approximately 1,100 health workers (including medical assistants,
nurses. auxiliary nurses) will be trained/recycled by joint ONAPO/MOH
regiontal teams with support from trainers from headquarters and regional
levels. Training sessions will be progressively decentralized in order
to maximize the practical aspects of the training and to adapt it to the
immediate environment of trainees. In order to create an enabling
environment to the decentralization of training, medical and non medical
materials and equipment will be provided to 60 health facilities which
are supported by other donors. PP training curricula are currently
being jointly reviewed by the training divisions of ONAPO and MOH which
will have responsibility for the implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of this sub-component. DurinL negetiations. it was agreed
with the governmnent that these curricula will be updated by March 1,
1992 to include all the training themes agreed upon during 2roiect
DreParation (para. 7.01(c)). An annual assessment of the training
program (Annex XII) will be carried out by ONAPO to: (i) better adapt
the training program to the needs of health staff and other categories
of personnel, and (ii) strengthen the training capacity of the team
ONAPO/MOH. In parallel with the in-service training program, ONAPO will
provide t.echnical assistance to the medical school and all paramedical
schools for improving the training of students in PP.
3.05        Strengthening the suDervision of PP activities.  This
activity is complementary to the training program. The intensified
supervision of MCH/FP activities at the health center level will be part
of the supervision visits that joint MOH/ONAPO regional teams are
currently carrying out. New supervision guidelines will be introduced,
focussing ons (i) the integration of PP into the MCH package that the
health centers are providing; (ii) the practical application of the five
training topics (management, communication, contraceptive technology,
integration of MCH/PP services, outreach) already described; (Wii)
contraceptive procurement; and (iv) problem-solving when health staff
are facing specific difficulties. The project will provide the
necessary logistical support (vehicles for operations, per diem,
supplies) for the incremental supervision visits.
3.06        Strengthening health education at the health center level.
Health education is neglected in most health centers, whereas patients
gathering in large waliting rooms represent an excollent opportunity to



18 -
communicate health messages and other health-related information. A
special emphasis will be placed on the promotion of breast feeding given
the fact that breast feeding duration has been falling in Puanda over
the past years. The project will help the hOH strengthen this activity
by: (a) reorganizing the education sessions in the centers; (b)
strengthening health and population messages; and tc) providing
assistance for the additional IEC teaching materials and equipment
required. During the supervision visits of health centers, special
emphasis will be placed on the organization of these sessions.
3.07        Improving contraceRtive suRPly and manaLement. This
activity will address the problem of contraceptive shortages which often
hamper the delivery of FP services. Projections of contraceptive needs
and costs have been made for the period 1990-1997. The quantities
assume no significant change in the contraceptive mix by 1997. At
present, the support of major donors in the sector is not sufficient to
provide adequate contraceptive supplies. Consequently, the lack of
steady financial resources has caused frequent shortages.  Moreover,
USAID does not provide injectable contraceptives which are currently the
most popular method. Under the on-going Family Health project, the Bank
has also contributed to the purchase of contraceptives for the FP
program at times when the budget allocated by other donors for the
procurement of contraceptives was insufficient to meet the increasing
demand. Under the current estimates, the project will have to fill a
financial gap of approximately US$6.8 million over a six-year period.
In order to strengthen the MOH/ONAPO collaboration and thereby make the
system more efficient, the directorate of pharmacy of the MOB will, be
associated to the procurement of contraceptives.
3.08        The strengthening of the management of contraceptives will
complement USAID support through the improvement of several key
activities: (i) inventory management; (ii) periodic reviews of
projections of contraceptive neodsl (iii) timely preparation of orders
and their adequate follow-up; (Cv) improvement of storage and logistics
at the central, regional and peripheral levels; and (v) improvement of
the dispatching system. These activities will be coordinated among the
various donors to assess annual contraceptive needs and procurement.
(Projections of contraceptive needs is provided in Annex I, Table 7).
The local procurement specialist to be recruited under the project, will
assist ONAP0' personnel involved in the procurement of contraceptives
in carrying out these activities. Workshops for selected ONAPO central
and regional stMff will be organized on this topic and field visits will
be organized to monitor the above mentioned activities.
Part A: Ezoanusion aNO nREM&ton-of PP services
3.09        The overall objectives of this component are to: (a)
complement the efforts of health cetters in the provision of FP services
by developing an outreach strategy to bring PP Lafomation and modern
contraceptive methods to poorly served coammunities; and (b) provide
support to ONPO's ZEC strategy and promote FP use among important



1 9 -
target groups (such as males and young adults) which have been so far
neglected. Although ONAPO will have the major responsibility for
monitoring the implementation of this component both at the central and
regional levels, the MOH will also become more actively involved. The
implementation strategies for this component include: (a) the
strengthening of existing FP posts and the establishment of new FP posts
in priority areas nationwide; (b) the improvement of community
participation in FP activities by mobilizing a network of approximately
17,500 volunteers for community-based distribution of contraceptives and
promotion of demand creation for FP services at the grassroots level;
and (c) support of the design, implementation and evaluation of the IEC
strategy and of specific IEC activities.
Strengthening and establishing FP posts
3.10        The objective of this sub-component is to increase access to
FP services in areas that are currently poorly served because the
variety of modern contraceptive methods are not offered, or the
geographical access to health facilities is difficult. This objective
will be achieved by strengthening 39 FP posts and establishing 44
additional PP posts beyond the health center level. These posts will
operate as an integrated part of the health center network and will be
closely supervised and monitored by health center personnel. This
outreach strategy is justified because: (a) it will strengthen MOH
capability to deliver FP services (which have been defined as a priority
program by the government) in areas where the coverage is inadequate;
(b) it will require minimal costs since the posts will be established
within existing administrative structures (see para 3.12); and (c) it
will increase MOH's involvement and effectiveness at the community
level. To select the priority areas (see map section) for the
implementation of FP posts, the following criteria have been taken into
account: (i) the level of FP coverage presently provided through the
health center network; (ii) the support offered by communal authorities
for the expansion of the FP program; (iii) the distance to ;he nearest
health facility from the peripheral level; (iv) the overall performance
of the nearby public health centers; and (v) the availability of health
center staff adequately trained in PP. This latter criteria was
particularly important in selecting the location of the PP posts within
the communes. The 39 existing FP posts will be strengthened during the
first year. The establishment of the 44 additional PP posts will be
carried out during the first four years of the project (approximately 11
new posts per year). Given the innovative nature of this approach, a
performance review of the FP posts will be carried out after three years
of project implementation prior to completing the establishment of the
remaining posts. This performance review will be part of the mid-term
review to be carried out in 1994 (see pars. 5.08).
3.11        The performance of the 39 existing FP posts distributed in
all the prefectures (except Byumba) is encouraging and confirms the
existence of an unmet demand for FP services. On average, each post
currently functions twice a week and enrolls 20 new acceptors every
month. They are staffed on a part-time basis by health personnel from



- 20 -
nearby public or non-governaental health centers. The major constraints
to the functioning of these posts have been: (a) their lack of
management and overall organization (in terms of equipment, job
descriptions of personnel), and supervision; (b) the difficulty in
certain areas of obtaining the services of qualified MOH personnel
working in Catholic health centers to staff the posts on a part-time
basis; and (c) the insufficient linkages between the FP posts and the
network of volunteers. To address these constraints, an implementation
committee - including the regional ONAPO and MON representatives, the
mayor and the medical assistant in charge of the health center - will be
created in each commune to oversee the establishment of these posts. A
more specific definition of the overall objectives and management
structure for the FP posts has been prepared by ONAPO and is described
below.
3.12         The PP posts will be housed within existing available
structures of the communes (Centre Communal de DOveloppement et de
Formation Permanente (CCDFP), city halls, public nutrition centers,
etc.). The involvement of the community and of the local leaders will
be a key factor to the success of this activity and will be closely
monitored. In parallel with project implementation, quarterly meetings
will be organized by the supervision teams (which will consist of ONAPO
and MOH high and medium level staff) with communal authorities and
community representatives, to discuss project activities and solutions
to key problems identified (para. 5.07). To promote an efficient PP
service delivery package, the respective functions of the health
centers, the PP posts and the volunteers working at the community level
(Annex IX), as well as their linkages to the communes, will be well
coordinated. The specific mechanisms are being clarified by a joint
ONAPO/KOH working group.
3.13         The FP oosts will operate once or twice a week, depending on
demand. Whenever possible, this schedule will be standardized by region
in order to facilitate their supervision at the regional level. In each
area, the staffing patterns will be adapted to the availability of
adequate resources, but they mainly will be staffed by a MOH agent from
a nearby health center adequately trained in FP. If such an agent is
not available, he/she will be replaced by a qualified agent from the
ONAPO/MOH regional team. Each PP post is expected to enroll at least 20
new acceptors per month. This number should increase if the posts
operate three times a week instead of two. The project will provide
medical and non-medical materials and equipment (including
contraceptives) necessary to ensure the adequate performance of these
posts. The project will provide health personnel with the necessary
training (see para. 3.04).
3.14        An adequate supervision and monitoring system will be a key
input to successful implementation of the FP posts. A supervision
scheme has been developed, involving ONAPO and MOH central, regional and
peripheral staff. Throughout project duration, the supervision pattern
will be especially intensive at the peripheral level (the health center
manager is expected to visit the satellite post once a month). Central



- 21 -
and regional level staff will intensify thteir supervision efforts during
the first year of project implementation and maintain a schedule of two
and three visits a year respectively thereafter. Supervision of the FP
posts and health centers will be integrated by the regional MOH-ONAPO
team. This scheme places emphasis on the responsibility of the regional
and peripheral staff in the monitoring of the posts. To ensure the
efficiency of this process, a specific checklist will be prepared for
each supervision level and adequate logistics will be provided (at least
two vehicles and five motorcycles per region). As part of the
monitoring process, the data collection system will be revised and
simplified in order to ensure timely analysis of the posts'
performances.
Utilization of a network of volunteers for Dromoting the demand for FP
services and for Community-Based Distribution (CBD) of contraceptives
3.15        The objective of this subcomponent is to strengthen the
volunteer program developed by ONAPO as the major IEC strategy for the
promotion of FP services at the community level. While ONAPO has beer
successful in sensitizing the political and social leaders and the
general public with respect to population issues and FP. specific
actions are now needed to maintain the level of motivation and
encourage actual use of contraceptives at the community level. A
network of approximately 17.500 8I community-based volunteers
(Abakagurambaga) evenly distributed throughout the country has been
working with ONAPO since 1988. These volunteers are located at the most
peripheral political and administrative level of the country: the
cellules which comprise 50 families each. They represent an excellent
channel to convey messages and to affect changes in the community.
ONAPO has already provided limited IEC and FP training to those
volunteers. The project will considerably strengthen their training and
will progressively involve them in the distribution of contraceptives,
following a Community-Based Distribution (CBD) strategy9/. The
volunteers will perform the following functions: (a) inform the
community regarding the importance and benefits of FP; (b) educate the
8/    Two volunteers (male and female) per ccllule (1 cellule includes
50 families), for a total of approximately 8,750 colluloa
throughout the country.
9/    Community-Based Distribution (CBD) of contraceptives is an
outreach strategy to provide PP services to the target population
at the most peripheral level beyond the traditional hoalth center
network. It involves primarily community volunteere who are
trained Ln delivering PP mesoages and certain contraceptivo
methods. This strategy has been succooefully tested in many
Asian, Latin American and a few African countries (Lncluding
Rwanda) in increasing significantly the contraceptivo provalenco
rate, confirming the hypothesis that people would use PP services
if they are made easily available to them.



- 22 -
community regarding modern and natural FP methods; (c) refer potential
acceptors to nearby PP posts and health centers; (d) ensure the follow-
up of current users with a specific objective to advise them properly in
case of side effects, and encourage drop-out clients to resume modern
contraception whenever deemed appropriate; and (e) distribute modern
contraceptive methods. The distribution function will be integrated
progressively into the work program of the volunteers, as follows: (i)
beginning in the second year, only condoms and other non-medical
contraceptive methods will be distributed; and (Ci) after the third
year, the resupply and supply of pills will be initiated. By that time.
the volunteers will be properly trained, their monitoring and
supervision functions well established and their role well understood
and accepted by the comnunities.
3.16        The project will help ONAPO develop several training
strategies to ensure the adequate. work performance of the volunteers.
Training will focus on: (a) contraceptive technology, including natural
family planning; (b) communication methods; (c) FP counselling; Cd) work
organization; (e) use of checklists to screen clients eligible for
hormonal contraceptives (pills, injectables, implants); and (f) report
and statistical forms regarding FP service delivery. Emphasis will be
placed on IEC messages for specific target groups (youth, males, females
less than 15 years old and more than 35, women with high parity). A
multi-disciplinary team from the prefectoral and communal levels (see
detailed training plan, Annex XI), including the director of the CCDFP,
the medical assistant of the communal health center and the communal
agricultural agent, will be responsible for conducting the training
sessions under the supervision of ONAPO's regional staff. The project
will also support refresher courses for the team of trainers of the
volunteers at both the prefectoral (110) and communal (435) levels.
3.17        ONAPO will monitor and supervise the work of the community
volunteers by: (a) providing "couponsu to the volunteers for issuance to
clients referred by them to the health centers or the FP posts; (b)
reviewing the statistical forms used by the volunteers to record data on
the population served; and Cc) conducting follow-up visits from the
central, regional and peripheral levels. Supervision of this program
will be the primary responsibility of ONAPO's regional team which will
work in close collaboration with the multi-disciplinary team from the
prefectoral and communal le'7ls (see para. 3.16 above).  In addition,
while the volunteers are not formally part of the MOH network, the
medical assistant in charge of the nearest health center will closely
monitor their work.
3.18        To ensure motivation of the volunteers, a system has been
developed to provide annual incentives to communes and volunteers who
perform satisfactorily. The award system will be based on a scale
ranging from average to outstanding performance and awards will be
provided accordingly. Awards will consist of radios, motorcycles,
wheelbarrows and hoes (Annex IV, Table 4). The idea is to provide the
volunteers with means to improve their work (listening to ONAPO programs
on the radio, improving means of transport) and supplying useful tools



- 23
for their agricultural plots. The criteria for measuring performance
are the followings (a) regular attendance in training sessions; (b)
number of clients referred; (c) quality of statistical records; (d) work
assessment by the community; (e) regular meetings with health center and
FP post staff; and (f) number of drop-out clients traced.
Supporting the Overall Information-Education-Communication (IEC)
3.19        To date, ONAPO's IEC programs have been oriented toward the
general public. The project will support these activities and will
assist in the design and implementation of more focused IEC strategies
on specific segments of the population.
3.20        Introduction of population issues in school curricula.  This
activity will introduce population issues in the curricula of preschool,
primary, secondary and higher education curricula. A needs assessment
will be carried out in order to elaborate specific curricula and
training modules to be.used at the different levels. Once they are
elaborated and tested, symposia and conferences oriented toward the
respective users of those modules will be held. A mid-term evaluation
of this activity will be carried out in order to assess its impact and
modify the content of the curricula and modules if needed (para. 7.01).
ONAPO and university staff will develop the curricula with external
technical assistance when necessary.
3.21        Introduction Of 2opulation and family planning issues in
women's grouRs. ONAPO is currently elaborating a 5-year program aimed
at integrating population and FP issues into women's groups in Rwanda.
As stated in the assessment report of FP for the last decade (ONAPO,
December 1990), this represents a priority area for IEC interventions in
the future. Activities will include the organization of workshops and
seminars in each region to encourage the integration of FP in women's
work. It is expected that the Union des Femmes Rwandaises pour le
Ddvelo2pement (URAMA), with staffing at the communal level will assist
in the implementation of this activity.
3.22        Training/Refresher training in IEC.  The objective of this
activity is to strengthen and develop the technical capability of
ONAPO's staff in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation
of IEC programs related to population and family planning issues.
Approximately 65 peoplelO/ from ONAPO central and regional levels
will beneflt from such training. This core team of trainers will, in
turn, organize training/refresher sessions in IEC for the multisectoral
personnel involved in family planning at the communal level. In
addition, refresher courses in IEC and family health education will be
organized for approximately 360 people from the Centre dEducation Rural
Artisanal Int6ard (CERAI), 180 teachers from higher education schools,
10/   Flve per prefecture and 10 at the central level.



- 24 -
250 people involved in family health education through their work. and
1629 social workers. All this training will, be decentralized.
3.23        organization of "Population Week".  The objective of this
activity is to reactivate each year national awareness on population
issues. During this week, IEC programs will be oriented toward the
general public through various communication channels (media, songs,
plays, banners, brochures) and emphasize messages delivered by the
volunteers at the community level. This activity will be carried out on
nationwide. "Population Weeks has been very successful in the past and
has given the President of the Republic and other political figures the
opportunity to renew their comnitment to family planning.
Part C: SuDporting population studies and Dromotina multisectoral
activities
3.24         The objectives of this component are to: (a) strengthen
ONAPO's data base and analytical capabilities; (b) integrate population
variables into the overall planning process; and (c) promote
multisectoral activities aimed at fostering demand for FP services. To
attain these objectives, ONAPO will undertake priority studies in the
sector, strengthen the FP information system and develop multisectoral
activities with other ministries and institutions. The research
division of ONAPO will be responsible for undertaking the research
activities of this component, and will oversee in collaboration with the
project coordinator the implementation of multisectoral activities being
carried out by other ministries and organizations.
3.25         Strengthening the research program and the evaluation of FP
activities.  The objective of this subcomponent is to consolidate
ONAPO's advisory and monitoring role in the implementation of the
population policy. ONAPO has already carried out several population
studies, the results of which have been incorporated into development
plans. The project is expected to provide funding for priority surveys
and research activities, including: (a) causes of maternal mortality.
(b) determinants and consequences of migration (especially internal
migration); and (c) assessment of family planning service delivery, to
be undertaken at both the mid-term and final evaluation of the project.
The latter would include both a quantitative and a qualitative
assessment of the PP activities, focusing on such issues as provider
performance and client satisfaction. The results generated from these
studies are expected to enhance the implementation of the population
policy and family planning program. The research division will provide
IDA on an annual basis within the framework of the annual work program,
its specific proposals, including detailed tems of reference, budgets
and technical assistance needs.
3.26        Develoging multisectoral activities.  ONAPO has been active
in developing the dialogue on population matters with different sectors,
groups and agencies and has already developed joint activities with some
of them (Ministry of Youth, Ministry of Education, enterprises, NGOs).



- 25 -
This approach will be expanded since ONAPO now has the mandate to take
the lead in implementing the national population policy. ONAPO is
currently in the process of helping several ministries (Planning,
Agriculture, Health, Education) to integrate the population variable
into their sectoral plans. The financial support for these plans will
be provided through the budgets of these ministries. Hultisectorial
activities to be funded under the project will include seminars and
workshops for higher level staff involved in development activities,
associations, labor groups, youth organizations and agricultural
extension workers in order to educate these segments of the population
on population and FP issues. The Board of ONAPO will be responsible for
the close monitoring and evaluation of these activities (para. 5.06).
IV. PROJECT COSTS MM PID C!  I
A. Costs
4.01        The project will be implemented over a six-year period.
Total costs for the proposed project are estimated at FRW 313.1 million
(US$ 26.1 million equivalent). Base costs are calculated at US$ 21.0
million equivalent, including taxes and duties of US$0.06 million, and
contingencies amount to US$ 5.1 million equivalent (24 percent of total
project costs). Foreign exchange costs accoumt for USS 14.4 million or
55 percent of total project costs. Project costs by category of
expenditure are summarized in Table 4.1 below and details are provided
in Annex I'V. Contraceptives account for 33 percent of base costs,
training activities for 29 percent, equipment, vehicles, studies and
supplies for 20 percent, and technical assistance for 3 percent of base
costs.
Table 4.1: Cost Summarv
8US million                 X Totel
---------I Fo-ei-n -eas
Loc81 Foreign Total    Exchange   Coatse
2. IVESTMENT CT
A. Equipment, Furn., MUt.          0.4   2.0   2.4          82        12
B. Vehicles                        0.0   0.4   0.4          98         2
C. Contraceptives                  6.,   6.8   6.8         1o9       8a
D. Training end Seminars           6.7    O.8   6.0          S        29
E. Technical Assistance            6.1   I.5   6.0          es         8
F. Studies                         6.7   0.7   1.4          66         7
Total Investment Cost    6.9  10.7  17.0       o0         84
1S. IAMEtL   SIECO        CO
A. Equipment Maintenance           9.8   0.1   0.4          26         2
S. Vehile Maintenance              0.8   1.1   1.4          00         6
C. Government Salaries             1.0   0.0   1.6          0          i
D. Stipends and Trove!             0.6    0.6   0.6          6         2
E. Supplies and Materials          9.6   o.1   6.1          a          1
Total Incemental Recurrent Coots   2.1   1.8   8.4         89         16
Total Baseline Costa               9.0   12.0  21.0         57       169
Physical Contingenciee        0.1   1.1   1.1         92          5
Price Contingencies           2.6   1.6   4.0         a6        1e
Total Projocts Coats              11.1  14.0  26.1          CS       124



26 -
4.02        Physical contingencies have been calculated at 10 percent
for vehicles, equipment, contraceptives, furniture and materials. The
following price contingencies have been included: (i) on foreign
exchange expenditures, 3.6 percent per annum throughout project
duration; and (ii) on local cost expenditures, 17 percent in 1992, 6.1
percent in 1992, 5.3 percent in 1993, and 4.5 percent every year
thereafter. Price contingencies account for 19 percent of base costs.
Project costs have been estimated in January 1991 prices and have taken
into account the effects of the November 1990 devaluation. Estimates
for equipment, supplies, materials and contraceptives were prepared by
ONAPO and verified Against USAID standard equipment lists. Estimates
for vehicles are based on previous experience with other IDA-financed
projects. Stipends and travel allowances are based on the current
government scale.
4.03        Project costs by com.nonent are shown in Table 4.2 below.
The improvement in the quality of FP services accounts for 28 percent of
total project costs, the creation, expansion and promotion of FP
services for 56 percent, the development of multisectoral population
activities/research for 8 percent and project management for 8 percent.
Table 4.2: Project Cost Suzmmary by CoM2onent
BUS mlilIon                 2 Totol
-ea---------- -  -     FP@tFrign  Deco
Loca I Foroign tote I    Exchange   Costs
A. Imp. Qual. of FP Sowvicee       0.6   6.4    6.0         es        28
B. Expan. & Prom. of FP Sorvices
1. FP Posts Equ. A Supplies     1.5   3.7    6.0         74        24
2. Volunteers Abakoeuromgabs    6.2   0.7    6.0         12        26
3. Support to IEC Strotegy      0.0   0.1    0.7         12         8
Sub-totel 7.1   4.5   11.6       3s        s6
C. Multieoc. Pop. Aetiv. Roo.      0.8   0.9    1.0         49        8
D. Project Managmont               0.4   1.3    1.7         76        0
Total Becolino Coots               9.0   12.0   20.9        G7       100
Physical Contingencies        0.1   1.1    1.1         02        6
Price Contingencies           2.5   1.6    4.0         37        19
Total Projoets Coste              11.6  14.0   28.1         65       124
B. Incremental Recurrent Costs and Proiect Sustainability.
4.04        Incremental recurrent costs (salaries, equipment and vehicle
maintenance and operation, per diem, stipends and supplies) amount to
USS 4.2 million, representing 16.0 percent of the total project costs
(including contingencies). The Governme.it will assume responsibility
for salaries and stipends, with IDA financing 95 percent of the other
incremental recurrent costs. During the six-year project, IDA will
fund, on average, about 65 percent of the total incremental recurrent
costs. Given the gravity of the financial situation in Rwanda and the
Government's commitment to embark for the first time on a IDA-funded



- 27 _
adjustment program, IDA's contribution to the incremental recurrent
costs over the life of the project appears fully justified. In fact,
this will be particularly important during the medium-term since the
macroeconomic adjustment program will lead to a significant and
progressive curtailment in Government expenditures. The proposed
financing arrangements are therefore intended to mitigate this effect,
by minimizing the imminent risk of chronic shortages of budgetary
resources for key project activities. Moreover, the Government's
staunch commitment to addressing the demographic problem and its
considerable efforts to mobilize financial and human resources towards
this end augurs well for the success of thi3 operation and adds further
justification to the proposed financing pattern. Finally, it should be
highlighted that, given the long-term nature of the project objectives,
a discernable demographic impact will only become apparent in a decade.
This implies that the potential economic benefits of the project (i.e.,
higher per capita incomes, lower investment levels associated with a
more favorable age structure, anB higher savings levels) will only
materialize well after project completion; therefore, the Government's
ability to assume a higher proporticn of incremental recurrent costs
will only be improved in the long-run.
4.05        In 1992, the incremental recurrent costs are equivalent to
only about 4.0 percent of the total projected Government outlays on
health (including population). In 1998, at project completion, the
incremental recurrent costs are estimated to be about US$622,000,
representing 5.0 percent of total projected Government health
expenditures. The composition of these expenditures would be as
follows: (i) salaries: 26 percent; equipment, vehicle maintenance and
operation: 46 percent; per diem and stipendss 12 percent; and suppltes:
15 percent.  The expenditure projections are based on the followit,
medium-term assumptions of the structural adjustment credit: (a) a
reversal in GDP growth (real terms) from -2.0 percent to 4 percent; and
(b) a reduction in the Government recurrent expenditures/GDP raL.o from
18 percent to 10 percent. It was further assumed that the share of
health in total Goverment recurrent expenditures would be maintained at
the current level of 5.1 percent. In the event that this share is
increased to about 8.0 percent, which reflects more accurately the
sector's requirements. the incremental recurrent costs would represent
only 3.0 percent of the Government health expenditures in 1998. The
Government should be able to absorb these incremental recurrent costs.
The public expenditure review will be used as a tool to mobilize
additional Goverment resources for priority programs such as
population. In addition, dutring the mid-term evaluation, options for
financing project lncremental recurrent costs will be assessed.
4.06        Contraceeives.  With regard to contraceptive supplies,
foreign exchange scarcity and competitive needs among various sectore
would preclude that the government ensure an adequate supply without
external assistance. In 1998, contraceptive supply needs will amount to
$2.3 million, which represents approximately 40 percent of projected
public expenditure oan drugs for the same period. The potential for
cost recovery through the social marketing of contraceptives is being



28 -
tested by the USAID-supported project and, if successful, could ease to
a certain extent the HH0 budget. This cost-sharing process will take
time before becoming fully operational and it is unrealistic to expect
this to occur during project implementation. Because the reduction of
the population growth rate is so essential for the country's overall
development, external assistance (including IDA) should continue and
even increase, if the FP program is successful. In addition, during the
course of project, implementation efforts will be made to mobilize
additional grant funds to finance contraceptive requirements.
C. Financina
4.07        Of the total project costs of US$ 26.1 million, IDA will
contribute US$ 19.6 million (75 percent). USAID is expected to allocate
at least US$1.9 million (7 percent) and UNFPA US$1.2 million (5 percent)
in parallel financing for contraceptivesll/. The government will
contribute US$3.4 million (13 percent). The financing plan by
disbursement categories is summarized in table 4.3 below.
Table 4.3: Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
US 0 Q; HUva
WoA    IAAW    w.I8a     GovT    TOTAL       Loca
---*-*--*  ~Foe..  flanC I    o.,t;**
Amount  U  Aaount     Amount O  Amount 9  Amount 93   Ecxh.  o06)   A T.oe.
A. E4VaoVoh,Furn.GSu.    3.89e  0.0    0  0.0    0  0.1    4  8.5   13  2.0  0.5  1
. Contrae ptive.  5.4    64  1.0   22  1.2   14  0.0    0  a.'   SS  8.8  0.0  0
C. Tach. A=oiet.nco  0.6    96  0.0    0  0.0    0  0.0    4  0.8    2  0.8  0.1  0
D. Tra;ning A Stud.eo    7.9    07  0.0    0  0.0    0  1.2   is  9.1   as  1.0  0.1  0
E. Overat;An  Coate  2.4    95  0.0    0  0.0    0  0.1    S  2 a. 10  1.  0.0  0
Go. Ovt. Solon a.  0.0  0  0.0    0  0.0    0  1.9  100   1.0    7  0.0  1.9  0
Total D;ebunoo.ant   19.8    75  1.9    7  1.2    a  8.8   19  20.1  100    14.5  11.0  1
1/  XThese figures represent estimateo of the contributions of those
agencies for the activitLes undertaken under this project and do
not reflect their total contributions which are much more
substantial.



9
- 29 -
D. Procurement
4.08       The procurement arrangements are summarized in table 4.4
below.
Table 4.4: Procurement arrangements 12/
us g
TotalI
Pejoact Elsoont   ICt    LCE    IS/S    wOe  N/A  coot
Equipmentftleriale"   a2.0  e.O             2.8
(2 .0)  (0.7)             (2.7)
Contracoptivea    0.5                       e.8
(6.4)                     (8.4)
Vohicloo              0.8                   0.8
(0.8)                 (O 8)
Technical C aclatanco           0.          0:6
Studte/;nino                   (0.6)        (0.6)
D. COnOUtanto                  1.0         1.0
(1.0)       (1.0)
b. T.olning oateraolo  0.8  0.8            1.4
(0.?)    (0.8)        (1.2)
a.  lou'nceo                     6.0      6.6
d. Training abroad        0.1              0.1
(0.1)            (0. 1)
Poratbing Coato                     4.5     4.5
(2.8)   (2.8)
TOTAL       10.8    1.S  1.5  1.6    11.1  28.1
(7.4)   (1.2)    (1.3)    (1.6)    (0.1)  (10.6)
--- Intornatetnol -Icoaotitivo b7dding
LCB3   Local aacpottivo bidding
IS/La  Intornabional ahoping/loa.l shopping
DOC    Bank guadolines on conoultonto
4.09       Goods.  Contracts for the supply of equipment, contraceptives,
educational and training materials equivalent to US$300,000 or more will be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB). Contracts
estimated to cost an amount equivalent to less than US$300,000 but more than
U0$100,000 will be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, provided the total of such
contracts does not exceed an amount equivalent to US$600,000. Goods valued
at an amount equivalent to less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.7 million shall be procured through
international and local shopping. In view of the small number and variety
of vehicles and to ensure after sales service, they shall be procured by
LCB. As far as possible, items for procurement will be bulked into packages
to permit optimum use of -ompetitive bidding.
4.10       Technical assistance. studies and trainins.  For technical
ass'stance, consultants will be selected in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for the use of consultants, with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA, to provide various forms of technical assistance in a
number of specialized areas: project management, procurement, IEC, and
research/development of multisectoral activities. The total technical
12/  Costs include contingencies.



- 30 
assistance required would be about 210 person months, of which 162 would be
recruited locally. A list of the specialist services which will be needed
during project implementation is in Annex XIV.
4.11        For studies and training, the required consultants (foreign and
local) will also be selected in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
the use of consultants, with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA, to undertake studies on specialized topics. For training materials for
ONAPO's regional offices, small office and training supplies will be
purchased on the basis of local shopping with a minimum of three price
quotations; individual contract amounts will not exceed US$10,000 with an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 0.5 million. Training materials and
suDplies related to the overall training program will be purchased on the
basis of local competitive bidding; contract amounts will not exceed
US$100,000 with an aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.7 million. For in-
service training, staff located in the communes will receive travel and
subsistence allowances (US$5.6 million) to enable them to reach the regional
training centers and attend courses for a maximum period of two weeks.
These allowances are based on an official schedule agreed upon with IDA.
For training abroad, the selection of training centers and specific courses
will be done on the basis of international shopping. The timing, final
selection of courses and candidates for this program will be submitted to
IDA for approval and the overall amount will not exceed US$100,000.
4.12        Bank prior review requirements.  All goods contracts for an
amount equivalent to or more than US$50,000 and all consultancy contracts
shall be made subject to prior review by the Bank in conformity with
Appendix 1, paras 1 and 4 of the Bank's guidelines. Contracts not governed
by the above shall be subject to review by IDA in accordance with Appendix
1, pars. 3 of same guidelines. The procurement schedule (Annex XV) reflects
the specific packaging requirements under the project. In order to expedite
procurement matters, ONAPO will recruit a procurement specialist (see para.
5.05); it is anticipated that this person will also benefit from training
courses abroad during the project.
E. Disbursement
4.13        The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 14.5 million (US$19.6 million)
will be disbursed in accordance with Table 4.5 below.



- 31 °
Table 4.5: Disbursement Categories
CATEGORY                           USSmillion           PERCENTAGE
Contraceptives                    4.3                 100 percent
Equipment. vehicles,              2.3                 100 percent of
Teaching material,                                    foreign exchange;
supplies                                              85 percent of local
costs
Training, studies and             7.8                 100 percent of
technical assistance                                  foreign exchange
85 percent of local
costs
Incremental Operating Costs       1.9                 100 percent of
foreign exchange
85 percent of local
costs
PPF                               0.7                 100 percent
Unallocated                       2.6
TOTAL                           19.6
4.14       Contracts for goods and segvices or single purchases of less
than US$30,000 and all operating and local training costs will be submitted
against Statements of Expenditure (SOE). All disbursements will be fully
documented. The SOE and all records such as contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts, and local trainiag expenditures will be retained by the
Borrower for inspection by supervision missions and reviewed by the annual
audit. It is expected that the project be fully disbursed by December 1997
in ac-ordance with the standard disbursement table and the credit closing
date will be June 1998. The estimated quarterly schedule of disbursement is
in Annex XIII.
4.15       SoecLal Accounts and Project Accounts.  To ensure that funds are
readily available for project implementation and to facilitate disbursement,
an initial deposit of US$500,000 will be provided from the IDA credit to
cover four months of operating costs financed under the credit. These funds
will be deposited into a special account in a commercial bank acceptable to
IDA. They will be mnaged by the project administrative unit (PAU) (para.
5.05) under close supervision fgom ONAPO's director, and will be replenished
quarterly based on adequate documentation provided by ONAPO. The government
will also open in the Central Bank a project account to cover the
,   ,   ,   ,,    ,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I  ,



- 32 -
government's contribution to operating costs (100 percent of salaries and
travel allowances and 15 percent of all local costs). An initial deposit of
FRW 70 million into this account will be a condition of credit effectiveness
(para. 7.03 (c)). In addition, during negotiations it was agreed with the
government that the project account will be replenished on a guarterly basis
(2ara. 7.012  f.
4.16       Accounting and Auditing.  In order to ensure that funds from
this credit are managed properly, an accountant will be hired (para. 5.05).
The main responsibilities will be: (a) to maintain separate accounts by
project component; (b) to differentiate between expenditures at the central
and regional levels; (c) to facilitate the quarterly and/or annual
budgeting, reporting and auditing process; and (d) to ensure that SOEs are
properly accounted. As part of the financial monitoring process (a) an
annual audit will take place no later than six months after the end of its
fiscal year beginning after the first year of project implementation (for
the ongoing family health project, audit reports have been submitted in
accordance with the Development Credit Agreement); (b) the project
coordinator will submit to IDA quarterly expenditure reports; and (c) a
project completion report will be submitted to IDA no later than six months
after the closing date of the credit.
V. PROJECT IMLEMENTATION
A. Status Of 2roject preLa ation
5.01        The proposed operation was identified in February 1990,
initially as a population component of a second PHN operation. During the
follow-up mission in May 1990, it was decided to prepare a free-standing
population project for the following reasons: (a) the advanced status of
preparation and the large size of the proposed component; (b) the limited
institutional capability of the MOH to implement this component as compared
with ONAPO's; and (c) the priority attached to this program by the
Government. In May 1990, the government made a detailed proposal to IDA to
support population activities' -including the overall objectives and
strategy, the description of activities, cost estimates, and implementation
schedule. High level staff from ONAPO and MOH were involved in the
preparation and appraisal process of this operation and have expressed their
comaitment to the project. Appraisal of this operation took place in
October 1990, followed by a post-appraisal mission in January 1991.
D. Orianization and Management
5.02        ONAPO will be responsible for coordinating the implementation of
this operation. ONAPO's responsibilities at the central-level will include:
(a) overall planning, budgeting and monitoring of project activities; (b)
the design, computerization and monitoring of a financial, accounting/
auditing and procurement system acceptable to IDA; (c) consolidation and
submittance to IDA of quarterly progress reports on project execution
prepared by ONAPO's managers; (d) preparation of annual reports on project



- 33 -
implementation and related expenditures: (e) coordinating between section
managers for the preparation of annual work programs and corresponding
budgets; (f) implementation of a quarterly training program for all aspects
of project and financial management; and (g) coordination of regional
activities. In addition. it was agreed during neaotiations that an annual
donors meeting will be organized by ONAPO to review the implementation of
the 2o0ulation policy (2ara. 7.01(b)_. Further to this annual meeting,
donors and local agencies will meet on a quarterly basis within the
framework of a national MCH/FP projects committee which was created in March
1991. This committee is chaired by the HOH. With regard to technical
implementation of the proposed activities, the primary responsibility will
lie with the Project Administration Unit (PAU) (para. 5.05). Close
collaboration of this unit will be sought with ONAPO's sections involved
with: (i) Family Health, (ii) IEC/Training; and (iii) Research. The key
personnel of these sections is already on board. Given the importance of
the training activities to be implemented under the project, the elaboration
of a detailed master_training glan-by ONAPO will be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para. 7.03 (b)). This plan will be updated annually
5.03        At the regional level, the coordination of project
implementation will be ONAPO's representatives' responsibility, in close
collaboration with MOH's regional medical officers. ONAPO's central
management will ensure that this collaboration actually takes place because
it is crucial for an effective and efficient implementation of training and
supervision activities which will affect the quality of FP services
provided. ONAPO's and MOH's regional staff have been made fully aware that
any duplication of activities and/or insufficient collaboration between the
two institutions could be most detrimental to project implementation.
5.04        This project has been designed to fit into ONAPO's existing
management structure (Annex VIII). ONAPO will release a high level staff
from all other duties throughout the duration of the project to become the
project coordinator and the counterpart to the project advisor. Terms of
reference of the project coordinator have been agreed upon (Annex VIII).
ONAPO's financial management system is weak, particularly with regard to
accounting, budgeting and reporting. This fact, combined with the relative
complexity and large size of the proposed project, will necessitate the
recruitment of a qualified long-term project advisor. This person will have
primary responsibility for assisting the day-to-day coordination and
implementation of the project so as to minimize delays in implementing
project activities. The term, of reference of this advisor (Annex VIII)
have also been prepared (and greed upon with ONAPO) to complement the
profile of the USAID long-term advisors whose main functions will be to
strengthen ONAPO's financial and planning capabillties.
5.05        In order for ONAPO to efficiently carry out its financial as
well as technical tasks, a small Project Administration Unit (PAU) will be
put in place that will report directly to ONAPO's director. It will be
headed by the project coordinator, assisted by the pgoject advisor (for the
first three years of project Implementation).  In addition, an experienced
accountant and procurement specialist will be contracted locally for the
duration of the project (Annex VIII). The PAU staff will have functional



- 34 -
linkages with ONAPO's financial. administrative and technical services. The
compensation of this staff should be, to the extent possible, in line with
that of similar civil servants. The staff of PAU will also be given the
opportunity to obtain training abroad in their respective fields
(accounting, procurement, financial management) with a special emphasis in
computer applications. Performance reviews of PAU staff will be conducted
on an annual basis by ONAPO's director and on a semi-annual basis by IDA's
supervision missions. Given the importance of strengthening ONAPO's
managerial capabilities during negotiations. it was agreed that. before
credit effectiveness, the Government will recruit under terms of reference
acceptable bX IDA, a full-time vroject coordinator, a project advisor, an
accountant and a Drocurement specialist, all with gualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA (para. 7.03 (a)).
C. Monitoring and Reporting
5.06        The mechanisms for project implementation and supervision are
described in Annexes X and XII.  At the central level, monitoring of project
activities will be the primary responsibility of ONAPO's director in
collaboration with the PAU.  With regard to PP activities, it was agreed
that the MOH will designate a high-level staff member to work closely with
the ONAPO project coordinator in the planning, implementation, monitoring,
supervision and evaluation of activities. The ONAPO project coordinator and
the MOH high-level staff together with their respective technical teams will
meet quarterly. Minutes of these meetings will be included in the quarterly
reports to be submitted to IDA.  In addition, the government will designate
an entity in charge of overseeing the progress of the multisectoral
activities, within the framework of the implementation of the national
population policy.  During negotiations, it was agreed that the Board of
ONAPO couli play such a role and, prior to Board presentation, the
goveranment has submitted to IDA the minutes of the meeting of the Board of
ONAPO confirming its new attributions (para. 7.02). At the regional level,
with regard to FP activities, MOH and ONAPO physicians will meet monthly to
monitor the MCH/FP program. including project activities, and on a quarterly
basis to assess and update these activities. Minutes of these meetings will
be included in the quarterly report which is submitted to ONAPO by field
staff. In addition, monitoring of sectoral activities will be the
responsibility of OXAPO's physicians who will work in close collaboration
with other sectors involved. Finally, ONAPO will have overall
responsibility for the monitoring of all multisectoral activities.
5.07        Each ONAPO section will be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of its respective sub-component based on the annual work
program that was agreed upon, consolidated by the UAU and submitted to IDA.
The draft work program. plans of action and budget for the following fiscal
lear will be submitted to IDA no later than October 31 in each year. the
detailed program and budget no later than December 31 in each year,
satisfactory to IDA (nara 7.01 e1. In addition, ONAPO's director and the
PAU staff will meet on a monthly basis with ONAPO's section managers, and on
a quarterly basis with ONAPO's regional delegates. In this contest, each
section within ONAPO will contribute to the preparation of a quarterly



- 35 
report on the status and progress of each project component to be submitted
to IDA no later than one month after the end of each quarter (para. 7.01
(d)). The PAU will coordinate this exercise (para. 5.05). The quarterly
reports will include: (a) the status of project activities by component; (b)
an overview of the coordination mechanisms between the central, regional,
peripheral levels, and collaboration with the MOH; (d) an overall review of
the progress accomplished against the goals set in the annual work program;
(e) the status of procurement for all project components; (f) the status of
disbursements against all categories and the status of the special and
project accounts; (g) the status of the counterpart funds; and (h) problems
encountered and recommendations for ret ving them. The information from
these quarterly reports would be consolidated and presented in the annual
report.
5.08       During,negotiations. it was agreed with the governent that a
mid-term evaluation of the ,project,will be carried out no later than three
years after the date of credit effectiveness under terms of reference
acceptable to IDA and that the conclusions and recommendations of this
evaluation will be taken into consideration for the remanna of orotect
implementation (para. 7.01 (a)). This evaluation will focus mainly on: (a)
the impact of the proposed volunteer program; (b) the overall efficiency of
the establishment of FP posts; (c) the efficiency of the proposed training
program - in-country as well as abroad; (d) ONAPO's managerial performance;
(e) the technical problems encountered and recommended corrective measures;
(f) the assessment of need for additional technical assistance; and (g)
financing options for project incremental recurrent costs.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION. BEEFITS AND RISKS
A. Justification and Benefits
6.01       The proposed project has been designed to alleviate the key
constraints facing the development of family planning services in Rwanda,
namely, the limited access to FP services, the poor quality of FP services
and the insufficient demand for PP services. The overriding constraint is
the limited access of the general public to FP information and modern family
planning methods. The project is expected to improve access to FP services
through the establishment of family planning posts beyond the MOH network of
facilities in poorly served regions and the promotion of community-based
distribution schemes. A secondary constraint is the poor guality of family
planning services. The project will tackle the quality issue by improving
the availability of trained personnel in MCH/FP, as well as teaching
materials, by making available a broad range of contraceptive methods and by
strengthening supervision systems. Finally, to ensure sustained demand for
family planning services, the project will support a series of lEC
activities aimed at key target groups.
6.02       The project is expected to generate both micro and macroeconomic
benefits. At the micro-economic level, the expansion in family planning
services should lead to health improvements for the most vulnerable groups,
particularly women and children, as family sizes are reduced and birth
spacing increased. More specifically, the project will generate the



- 36 -
following benefits: (a) reduction in infant mortality and improved health
and nutrition status of infants and mothers, as birth intervals are
increassd; and (b) reduction in maternal mortality, as high risk women are
reached by the family planning program. Studies in many countries have
documented the significant impact on infant and maternal mortality of longer
birth intervals. These findings suggest that if all Rwandese women who want
no more children use contraception. maternal deaths could be reduced by
almost one-third per year, and if all babies were born after at least two-
year birth intervals, one in every five infant deaths could be prevented.
All the fertility reduction and health status improvements should not be
attributed to the project alone but put in the context of the overall
government and donor efforts.
6.03        At the macroeconomic level, reductions in fertility levels,
which will ultimately translate into declines in the rate of population
growth, will produce significant benefits by alleviating population
pressures on scarce land resources, fostering food security, generating cost
savings in economic and social services and improving prospects for entrants
into the labor market. It should be recogniged, however, that these macro-
economic benefits are of a long-term nature, and that during the six-year
duration of the project, only the conditions will be set in place for a
sustained reduction in fertility and related improvements in health
conditions. The project %ill therefore lay the ground work for more
substantive impact in the longer term. One method of quantifying the
macroeconomic benefits of the family planning program is the government
savings approach, which involves estimating the cost savings in sectors such
as health and education of alternative fertility assumptions. Such an
analysis was recently completed by ONAPO, with technical assistance from the
Research Triangle Institutel3/. The study was instrumental in raising
awareness among Rwandese policy makers of the potential long-term benefics
of the family planning program by quantifying public expenditure
requirements with and without the program. The study was particularly
useful in demonstrating the rapid decline in costs per contraceptive user
since the inception of the PP program and the cost savings in different
sectors of the economy (including health and education).
B. Risks
6.04        The first risk is that ONAPO's managerial capabilities could be
overstretched by this operation. ONAPO is already involved in the
implementation of USAID, UNFPA and GTZ projects. ONAPO's past performance
in terms of financial and administrative management has not always been
satisfactory. To address this risk, a financial management advisor has been
recently appointed as part of a new USAID Project. In parallel, a Project
Administration Unit (PAU) will be established to assist ONAPO's management
in all administrative, procurement and disburs6ment matters and a long-term
13/  The conclusions of the study show a net gain of approximately FRW
219.3 billions on investments in health, education and agriculture
for the period 1981-2011.



- 37 -
project advisor will be recruited for the first three years of project
implementation. In addition, many day-to-day managerial decisions will be
decentralized to the regional levels where MOH and ONAPO staff will receive
support from PAU and central level staff to coordinate field activities.
6.05        The second risk stems from the fact that ONAPO might implement
the FP program with insufficient coordination with MOH. While ONAPO
operates under the umbrella of MOH, its active involvement in strengthening
FP service delivery would imply a major intensification of functional
linkages between the two institutions. The risk is that ONAPO's staff
instead of collaborating closely with MOH staff as technical colleagues will
start operating independently. This would increase the cost of service
delivery and the potential for conflict between ONAPO and MOH personnel. To
address this risk, specific collaboration mechanisms between ONAPO and MOH
have been developed during project preparation (para. 5.06-5.07). Their
execution will be closely monitored during project supervision.
6.06        Finally, a third risk relates to the capacity of Rwanda to find
appropriate solutions to the lingering problems of Rwandese refugees in
neighboring countries. Reinsertion of these refugees in Rwanda requires
careful planning and a major support from the international community.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements at Negotiations
7.01        During negotiations, it was agreed with the government that:
(a)  a mid-term evaluation will be carried out under terms of
reference acceptable to IDA no later than three years after the
date of credit effectiveness and that the conclusions and
recommendations of this evaluation will be taken into
consideration for the remaining of project implementation; this
mid-term evaluation will include the assessment of financing
options for project incremental recurrent costs (para. 5.08);
(b)  annual donors' meetings to review the implementation of the
population policy will be organized by ONAPO (para. 5.02);
(c)  curricula for the Family Planning training of health personnel
will be updated by March 1st, 1992, to include all the training
themes agreed upon during project preparation (para. 3.04);
(d)  the Project Administrative Unit (PAU) will submit every three
months reports on the status of project implementation and
related expenditures (5.07);
(e)  the draft work program, plans of action and budget for the
following fiscal year will be submitted to IDA no later than
October 31 in each year and the detailed work program, plans of
action and budget no later than December 31 in each year
satisfactory to IDA (para 5.07)



- 38 -
(f) the project account will be replenished on a quarterly basin
(para. 4.15).
Condition of Board Presentation
7.02       Prior to Board presentation, the Government has submitted to IDA
the minutes of the meeting of the Board of ONAPO confirming its role in
overseeing the progress of the multisectoral activities within the framework
of the implementation of the population policy (para. 5.06).
Conditions of Credit effectiveness
7.03       Before effectiveness of the proposed credit, the government
will:
(a)  recruit under terms of reference acceptable to IDA a project
advisor, a full time project coordinator, an accountant and a
procurement specialist, all with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA (para. 5.05);
(b)  submit for approval by IDA a master training plan which will be
updated annually (para. 5.02);
(c)  make an initial deposit of FRW 70 million (US$590,000
equivalent) in the project account representing the government
contribution to three months of local expenditures (para. 4.15).
7.04       Recommendation.  With the above assurances, agreements and
conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of
SDR 14.5 million (USS 19.6 million).



- 39 -
ANNEXES



- 41 -
TABLES



- 43 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 9
Table 1: Rwanda - Populstion Estimates by-Region
…----------------------------------------_--,-------------__--------------
Prefecture            Pop. 1978        Per cent   Pop. 1990          Per cent
-----------------------------------------------,-------------_______--__--
Butare                 602,250           12.5        892,945           12.2
Byumba                 521,894           10.8        768,229           10.5
Cyangugu               333.187            6.9        494,157            6.7
Gikongoro              370,596            7.7        548,142            7.5
Gisenyi                468.882            9.7        687,529            9.4
Gitarama               606,212           12.5        892,945           12.2
Kibungo                361,249            7.5        530,839            7.2
Kibuye                 336,588            7.0        494,158            6.7
Kigali                 698,442           14.5      1,244,396           17.0
Ruhengeri              531.927           11.0        782,901           10.7
RWANDA               4,831,527          100.0      7.336,241          100.0
Source: ONAPO 1990.
Table 2: Evolution of PoDulation of Rwanda, 1940-1985
1940            1.913.000
1950            2.087.000
1955            2.420.000
1960            2.752.000
1965            3.174.000
1970            3.735.000
1975            4.417.000
1978            4.898.000
1980            5.254.000
1985            6.300.000
Source: ONAPO, December 1985



- 44 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 9
Table 3: Rwanda - Population Distribution B 
Age               S.M              S.F             Total
0-4            741,866          734,907          1,476,773
5-9            587,513          583,222          1,170,735
10-14           470,968          475,814            946,782
15-19           385,834          404,602             790,435
20-24           318,818          334,824            653,642
25-29           261,308          272,497            533,805
30-34           214,142          222,609            436,751
35-39           172,828          182,824            355,652
40-44           132,568          139,630            272,199
45.49             97,314         100,474            197,787
50-54             75,378           79,538           154,916
55-59             58,545           62,479           121,025
60-64             43,913           48,145             92,059
65-69             29,679           34,580             64,258
70-74             18,357          22,055              40,412
75-79              9,645          12,294              21,939
80 *               2,848            4,225              7,073
Total         3621e,522        3,714,719          7.336,241
Source: ONAPO 1989
Table, 4: Rwanda - Eti_mated Population Density by Lemtion
Superficlo     Sup.efr 1.
totl.        disponibl,          enel%6         Dene1t#
Pr6fecture               kal           kha                brute      physloloolque
oute,.                  1.89           1.767,8             4668           68
Byaube                  4.987          2.098,2             164            296
Cyenogug                2.21           1.110,7             222            448
Olkongoro               2.1982         1."1,6              2m            8a1s
alsonyl                 2.85           1.811,8             267            524
alter""                 2.214          2.167,0             398            414
Klbung.                 4.14           2.0,6               120            19
Klbuye                  1.2 9          1.298,9             374            801
K? galt                 8.211          2.7,9               168            448
RouloI                  1.762          1.442,6             444           8$9
RWMANA                 20.8           106.724,1            270            892
o________oooooo_ooooooo___o_eooo_os_o__- - - - ---- - --- - - - --------------



- 45 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 9
Table 5: Number of new acceptors per method and
number of health facilities delivering FP services. 1981-1989
InjGe-       Nor-                                     No. of
yser     Pill       IUD       tables       plant       Condoms         Total        Centers
1981     248        226        298            -             1            707            16
1982     417        807        468            -             1           1178            24
1988    1664        781       1406            -            15           8858            61
1984    8940       l0o0       8488            -           199           6587            98
1986    8776        626       5               -           666          10766           159
1986    869g        as8       6866                        499          12697           184
1i08    4266        844      12960            -          1014         18518            228
1988   56oS         370      sileo            -          185         26088            246
1989    9388        422      81094          200          4128         45088            286
Source: ONAPO - Annual report 1988 and monthl-y report ot oettiotics on family planning 1989.
Table 5a: Total Number of Users and Contraceptive Mix
by Method. 1985-90
Yes;                             Method
Pills   IUD    1.njectables  Baerter . Tralt.onal  Implants TOTAL
1986              7849      2433          se8s      817          213         o       29699
1986              684       1216          1318      3S6           196        9       18621
1967              6925      12t0         18482      493          648         9       27667
1988             8e69       1412         27566     198          1012         0       89867
1919             12662      1742         45229     l1o6         1910       291       64485
1090             27244      1787         65365     29et         2822       449      1ess"
lo85              0.38       ..2 0.48              0.92         9.9  11.6 6 0
l1og              0.36      0.97          0.61     0.02         o.91    0.96           1
1907              0.21      0.96          G." 6     .092        9.2    *.g19
188               0.22      0.94          9.69     0.98         9.03    0.69           199
1089              0.21      0.98          9.70     9.63         9.93    0.998          l9e
1096              0.27      0.02          0.66     9.98         0.93    9.0"0 
0
0



ANNEX I
- 46 -                             Page 4 of 9
Table,5b: Total Number of users and Contraceptive Mix,
by Region. and by Method (December 1989)
Region                             Uethod
Pills  IUD    Injctables  oarrier Traditional Iaplmnts TOTAL
Sutore                783      age         4612     162          471       42       6408
Byumba                729       61         337t      65          6s9                4800
Cy7ngugu              647       63         3836      810                            3668
Gikongoro             85o       24         4316     159           57                4968
Gisenyt              1891      212         6662     1S9           14-               7967
aItar.ama            2984      187         5818     189           51                9229
K;bungo               934       58         2177      71           47                3287
Kibuye                844      ll         2087      93          9g                 3236
Kigali                8632     014         7688     708          560      159      13381
Ruhenger)             758       89          4648    165           25                7486
TOTAL               13652    1742         46225    1860         1910      201      64486
outare               O."      0.19         0.10    B."9         9.26     9.21       .099
Byumba               0.05    0..3          0..7    0.93         0.31               0.074
Cyangugu             1.96    0.04         0.07    9.93          0.90               9.E99
Clkongoro            0.03    0.01          0.10    9.99         8.03               9.97
i.enszy              9.14    0.12          0.12    6.11         0.91               0.124
Gitarame             0.22    0.11          9.13    0.10         9.03               0.143
Kibungo              O.O7    9.13          0.05    0.04         0.02               9.961
Kibuyo               0.06    0.07          0.06    0.06         0.56               0.095
Kigall               0.27    0.85          9.17    0.88         9.29    0.79       0.207
Ruheager             l.96    0.095         0.14    0.99         0.01               9.116
TOTAL                 199      199          19n     1011        1W9       lo         199



G8GT  0dW40 :0@J"OS
NUT         so, it                                gBo9        3 -t                 TSZg
UT           B-Ot         Xs's                    Sol"                   Eo 0t     N1N
SeT         soT           s'9            l        soI  N       ola       0.T       sag
NUt         sole           B.t        i- Slso                 Sel z0 00O
NUOOT       sole          sot          5.5        50*90                  iBt       too
NUT         soe           NBt           rLs         0,99      0WIt                 gm0
MUT         sole                       sell       509g        so'        irt'T     son 
NUT         Sl            -'5                     5050        sell       W98       900
xNUT        sell          s8           all        Wlo         sel        i'Ti    8003
MUT         s0o           ie           selL          OO89     sel        s9T       300
T           StOl9         soe          55          W8OO       W-T         -9t    to"
XWS         WI            52 2i0-O                            s I-       509T      00-3
XNT         so'9          sole         sel          oleo      irT        50T       owl
SNT         N'            so'          WIrL       50205       5-T        Wot    86OT
SeT         50-1'         Sol&         Sol        X69         sl fL0T             O"t
0t          s10l          Selz         S0eL        l0-0s WlT             WIT       OOT
NU0T        sole          Noa          S0ol        W69        Sot        WOT       9O6T
SaT         Selz          so'es t2T                                     WIT    VOOT
XOOt        Sl2z          50t          5025       50el        Sot        s508T     s6et
XNUT         o it         NO-t         sel        NBTL         xT        NoOT      so6T
NUT         Sot           seT          S0ol       50205       sel        5020Z     Toot
sot         sol0 e                     s ole        VTiL      sell       solo0     OOt
NUT         Xt*o                       sole       SOW         sellT      59T3      SeeT
NUt         so0           502T         XL-t       X9-L0        I'T-      503       SOOT
NUt         sol0          Solt         Xs's       5069        58T        so8l      LOST
XSe         sol0          s'0          NL3Z      s599         XL'        X0'3Z    lOaT
XUT         sl0           sol         %SIT        51l8,       sOTT       E9*xB     sOaT
XNT         s50e0         s0o0           T        sT-Tb       sX9-T      als9o    tOOT
NUT         sol           W's          be,0       9598       50203      50239'    9OOT
SUT        WX             sol          sol0 eN9*8O            5T093      0'99    3g0T
xNU         sol0          N0'0         X00        50*II       Solis      5T93      ToOt
19i0±      4uSldJON       *      IJS  WOpUo      eqws%**fuj      On!       liId
TIOZ-TO6t *poqlaw zad sjoldqOav VAU jo uosTnq;j!sT1 t9g O-qeL
6 30 5 a8Ba
I X3NNV                                     _         _



- 48 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 9
Table 7: Estimation of Contraceptive Prevalence Required
To Reach Different Fertility Targets, 1990-2015
Application of the Simplified Version of Bangaarts Model 1/
Historical         -Recent…- Projected -----
1986          1069    10o      199S     20W      2005    2010
Total Fertility Rate                          8.66           6.39     8.39     7.55      .90     6.40     6.89
X change from previous                                              6.68     6.09     6.69     6.07     0.08
6 year period
Proportionsl Reduction
in Fertility (PRF) from
1086                                                        0.68               0.12     0.20     0.26     0.32
Contraceptive
provalence, u(0)
MIRA 2/                                      0.021          0.957    0.067
Basic Data:
Total Women 15-40                        186200         1668W0  1610037  18416W  2207666  2071W  320806
X Women at Risk (Ever Married)              6.72           0.72     0.72     6.72     0.72     0.72     0.72
Total Woomn at Risk 15-49                 978446        11217W  1169227  1825520  1589640  1923120  2309760
Contrecoptive Uso Effoctivenomse B/
0(o)                                         e0.9a          6.04     0.942
e(t)                                                                          6.942    0.942    6.942    0.942
Prevalence
In target year: 4/                                                             0.1?     0.24     6.29     0.36
Total Women at Risk 15-49                 978440        11217W  115922Y  1826520  1689040  1923120  2309760
Number of user                               20099          64465   16650    226297  882426   66e290  868896
Crude Birth Rate                                             5.2               52.4     47.9     44.6     42.8
per low
Total Popelation                                          7865872           9828656  1068218 12642668 14990476
(rose Potential CBR 6/                                       57.2              61.9     61.1     01.0      62.4
Births Averted 8/                                           28250             66748   146256   207460   294231



- 49 -
Page 7 of 9
1/   Multiplicative Hodel: TfRl  Cm * Cc * Ca * C1 * TF
Cmw marriage pattern, Cc- contraceptive prevalence,
Cam induced abortion, Ci- post partum infecundability,
TF- total fecundity
Assumptions:   1/ No change in TF;
2/ Induced abortion is absent; and
3/ Trends in Cm and Ci compensate each other (i.e.,
increase in age at marriage and declines in breast
feeding).
2/   Proportion of Ever Harried Women of Reproductive Age (15-49 years)
who are contracepting. According to ONAPO, in 1987 about 25,250
women were using some form of modern contraception; an undetermined
number of couples were using traditional methods (e.g., abstinence);
if the latter were taken into account the prevalence rate would be
higher and the use effectiveness somewhat lower."'
3/   To obtain the average use effectiveness, a weighted average of the
method-specific levels is calculated (the weights are given by the
proportions of all users that use the different methods). Since no
data is available for Rwanda the following standard values have been
used:
Injectables          0.98
IUD                  0.95
Pill                 0.90
Other                0.70
Sterilization        1.00
Method MHi                1985            1989            1985-89
Z Change
Pill                      0.337           0.217            -0.36
Injectables               0.579           0.723             0.25
IUD                       0.074           0.028            -0.62
Barrier Methods at        0.010           0.030             1.90
Other                                     0.003
Total                     100.0           100.0
Number of Users          11,344          62,356
Average Use Effective    0.948            0.950
a/ condom and spormi6ido
4/   The basic equation for estimating the prevalence level required to
achieve a desired reduction in fortibility ist
u(t) 1 - (1 - PRF) * (1 - 1.08 * u(o) / 1.08e(t))
5/   GPCBR- CCBE (1    0.9 * u'')] / Cl - 0.9 (u'+ u'')J
u' - program contraception and u'' - non program contraception
6/   Births Averted- (GPCBR   C CBR) * Population



- 50 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 8 of 9
Table Sa: Ministry of Health-and ONAPO Recurrent Budget,
Mill. RwF
1990         1991
Budget   Required Budget
Ministry of Health:
Personnel                                   833.0    938.0
Foreign Exchange Operating Costs            134.0    651.0
Other Operating Costs                       515.0    791.0
TOTAL                                      1482.0   2380.0
1990         1991
Budget   Required Budget
ONAPO:
Personnel                                    65.0      68.3
Operating Costs                              21.1      27.9
Materials                                     l.o       1.4
Other                                         1.5      25.9
TOTAL                                        88.6    123.5



Table 8b: Donors Contribution to ONAPO (in 000 RF). 1981-1987
------------------------------------------_---- --________---------_--------_____________________________________________________--
Org.-       USAII       Banque       FNUAP             Psthfimbr   IXNTRAI           IPPF              UNICEF        R.F.A.       Chin,          Total
alesm.                  Mondiele   y co.pris           Fund                         y compris
I'Assistance                                   low contra-
technique et                                   coptife
contacepttifa
Ann&*
1961                                                   8.374.976                                                                               8.374.976
1962   16.304.971   1.96.006           16.836.00       2.349.562                                                                              37.M99.663
1983   04.933.654   4.214.128         36.322.600                      1.876.256          74.864                                              109.420.294
1984   62.116.442   6.802.111         6.929.60         1.639.629                     2.396.364       3.010.M0                                136.883.433
1985   65.350.76e    6.987.276        61.647.116       1.659.686                     3.663.087         900.000                               120.898.475
1986   69.539.145   1.6e.M            56.269166                                      6.069.590                                              131.267.725
jul.
196/
1990                                                                                                            66.16.06  139.770             68.139.770
1987                                                                                                  G.000                                      M00.600
------- ------ -      -- -- ----------------------------------------                             --------------------------
TAL 278.248.976  21.58.614   222.003.606   13.323.871                 1.876.256    12.SS4.265   4.60.06  68.00.               139.770       613.60.226
-     --------------------------------------_-------------------------------------------_-_----------------------------------------_ --
on
0
CD
otn



- 52 -



- 53 -
l
FIGURES



- 54 -



MINISTERE DE-LA SANTE.
-.   M1NISTRE7                                           U
ONAPO  .
R R F m L| ~~~OPHSAP 
SrCRETAIRM GP.'AL 
Direction GEn&ale                                                             c-k;n6rcte
Bela Sontee
Directim    Dlel VmDirecrecliac   [ecl                         Direc lion      Direction    Direclion
ltug-&Loa haeisu,t, I     T *             .                   i's Fffetieq                     W I    ,
tn i  d                    n        | i                E  i             r d        l           <
dt'uI1G'da@i*aie  JC#
S..
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.
o I_



a, I
j-~ Lm,                                        I       I             ,li.                                                                                  BD
'.E                                 I               A I
OIAT31 1111i3vi                              molLyzwunlou                   Ii11   5C  I1D 1 &31;S 
w,.~~~~~~~~~J
0
liV11e'"                    NOlVA Vp1 1   IJ. Ial1140 *p 79% J71LI
'U
Li..           V SftaloulMl.JV!   j  DIvNII)                      tMuIJ.dIop
__                           ___ ~~~~~~~~~~~I krIt
Li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~I1V4 ,V~IOI~. IJb m&W
CO
~~*1                           c33Vfl~~OI3J   1.3  .             ____________________p_______________"U                              I           -iglu



57 -                                   A_NV. EX I
Page 3 of 6
Figure 2: PouIatiz  vrciectiocs, Rwa-da 1990-2015
Population du kwanda
22
20    Entrbe 1990 et 201S:
is                         TRIPLEMEHT
14 ?4
Z12
:10                          1)3I   I 3 0"I  : i  X  0I 9 
.                                                       .
4
2
1934  ±950 1960 1970 1980 ±990                                        2015
Sou:ce: Population et Eavironeament au Rwanda, The Futures Group,
February 1990



x Itz
- 58 -                               Page 4 of 6
Figpure 3: Pro'ecticn~ of-land availabil.itv, 1990-20L5
Taille wmoyeomnEe dais frermem
19 9 0                           2005                          2015
10.55                         0. 3S 3 ha
*    1
Souice: Pipu1a:ion~ et Environnement au R-aanda, The Futures Group,
February 1990



-59 -                           ANNEX  :
Page 5 of 6
Figure 4: Popu1a:ion Program in Rwanda
The ef'ecCs of a reduc:ion o' the total fer:±l t. rare
PROGRANMS DE POPtLrATION
Eff ets d'un dElai  ans                     5,8
la- bais:se de  la  Ed  idit6
32.1
27.8
L                                                       2.,
7,3
~~~DOWa de 5 ans
7.3                            M Eai de  10  anss
Aucurne baisse
ISSO     2000       2010     2020      2030      2040
Source: Population ea Fnvironnezent au Rwanda, The Futures Group,
February 1990



-60-
Page 6 oi 6
Figt.:e 3: CCMt:ace;tLve prevalence a?.d to:al
ra: ±~A!:cas stecedcounties
Pla_ning famdIlal en Afri qu
:: 8          I
g:EI
7~~~~~~~
,1             IS$#n*SI0X   lKenyo
Zimbabwe
I, ;                            Botawa"na
Li
a   10   15  2O  25  3a  a    4O    45
PrvuaI*nce  de to contraception
.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 61 -
ANNEX III
Page  of 3
KEY PROJECT INDICATORS
A. PROCESS INDICATORS
I. Expansion, promotion and qualitative improvement of F.P. services
1992       1994       1997
Mid-term
Review
Health Centers
- Percentage of Public Health Centers             87 1/       100        100
delivering FP services
- Number of Health Centers/Hospitals
equipped                                      358           418        418
- Number of annual supervision visits             2                        3
- Health personnel trained in contraceptive    - 21            492       820
technology, management and supervision
of FP services 3/
- Health personnel retrained                                   269       269
(refresher courses) in contraceptive
technology management and supervision
of PP services 3/
- Quantity of contraceptives utilized 41
- Number of users by target group 6/
1/    The quality of the PP services provided needs to improve
significantly.
2I    Total number of personnel adequately trained is not
available.
J    5This training will be done according to the new PP
curriculum being prepared.
g/    This data will be monitored annually.



62 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
FP Posts
- Total number of FP posts operational           39 5/          72        83
-Number of new FP to become                                                11
operational annually (first 4 years
of the project)
-Number of weekly working days for FP posts   2
-Number of annual acceptors at eachFP post 240
-Number of annual supervisiin visits by the 12
health center manager
-Quantity of contraceptives utilized  4/
-Number of users by target group 4/
IEC Strateav
- Number of volunteers retrained             17,536
each year
-Average number of acceptors recruited           12                       24
annually by each volunteer
-Percentage of volunteers distributing
contraceptives at the conmunity level:
. condoms, vaginal foams                0o         100?          1002
. pills                                  ox         102           402
-Number of social workers retrained               -        996    '    1329
in IECIFP
-Number of IEC trainers retrained in IEC/FP   -            610           610
(65 at the central level, 110 at the
prefectural level and 435 at the communal
level)
- Number of people at CERAIS being trained
in IEC/FP
* Basic Training                               ISO          360
. Refresher courses e                         300           480
5/    Will require oubstantial strengthening.  This will take
place during the first year of the project.



- 63 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
- Number of higher education teachers  6/        -         180          180
- Number of school board directors trained 6/  -           200          200
- IEC campaign completed                         -           3             6
- Elaboration of IEC materials                                       completed
- Number of documentation centers equipped       -          10            10
II. Research programslDevelopment of sectoral activities
- Number of studies completed                                1             3
- Number of meetings organized with women's groups
on population issues                                      12           30
- Strengthening of FP info system groups                             completed
III. Procurement/Management Training for ONAPO Central and Regional Staff
= Contraceptive procurement                                              11
Procurement/basic principles                                              4
- Financial Hanagement                                                     4
B. OUTCOME INDICATOR
- Contraceptive Prevalence (Z modern methods)  9 7/ V0
C. IMPACT INDICATORS
- Total fertility rate                           8.5                       7.2
- Maternal mortality (Z of change)                                       - *30
- Infant mogtality (per 1,000)                 124                       112
- Child mogtality (8)                           20.5                      18
- Average birth Interval
1/    Rofog to Detailod Training plan in Annex XI.
7/   Q1990 eatmatee.  It might be higher by January 1992, when
the project becomeo effective.



- 64 -
ANNEX IV
Page . of 10
Table 1: ImDroving Quality and Efficiency of FP services
Base Costs in $US
92        93        94        96         96        97      Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Training
Clinical for FP - COS          89612     89512     89612      89512     89612     89612    637075
Supv. to Evaluate Trng.         9107      9187      9167       9187      0167      9167      66000
Refresher in Clinical FP       11750     11760     11760      11760     11760     11760      70600
Refresher - FP Auxilierie       4616      4616      4616       4616      4816      4616      27687
Sub-Total                      115044    116044    116044    116044    116044    116044    690262
8. Tooching MaterialI
Creation of 10 Libraries       16160     16160         0          0         0         0      30300
Strong. Re?. Lib. ONAPO         6060      6060      5050          0         0         0      16160
Sub-Total                       20200     20200      6060          0         0         0      46460
C. Contraceptives
Pills                          66420     78904     92133    105922    122727    137709   803816
Injectablee                   189634    226714    263436    302884    360914    393758   1726321
IUD                             1944       358      2347       767       2841      1197      9438
Barrior                       263266    313347    38682    420467    487148    646654   2396466
Othor                           3264      3864      4624      6208       6036      6766     29662
Sub-Tots I                     624628    622182    728122    835207    9696W    1086584   4766890
D. Equip=nt
Cosputera                      12625     16833     12626      8417          0         0     60600
Printoro                        6312      8417      8312      4208          0         0     26260
Softesre                        6060      8080      6060      4040          0         0     24240
Sub-Tota I                      24997     33380     24997     186            0         0     99990
E. E0DPM. for Hsalth Centers
O i I Heater                     464       454         0         0          0         0       909
Rolling Tablo                  10302     10302         0         0          0         0     20604
Teobour Panereat 240       f     flS       n0          0         0          0         0      1212
Toabur Panscumnt 290 m           767       767         0         0          0         0      1616
Tembour Penemat 840 m           1697      1697         0         0          0         0      3394
Examination Lmp Art.            2272      2272         0         0          0         0      4646
Adult Scale                     8484      3484         0         0          0         0      6969
Baby Scale                      6363      6383         0         0          0         0     12726
Baby Scale SALTER               1060      1060         0         0          0         0      2121
Proesure Sterillxatoe           4242      4242         0         0          0         0      8484
Hot air etrlizator              6893      9393         0         0          0         0     18786
StelO                           1818      1818         0         0         0          0      3636
Exaeination table 2 se.         8832      8382         0         0         0          0     1688
Exainatien table 3 mem.         9696      9696         0         0         0          0     19392
D A C troussea                  3433      3488         0         0         0          0      6886
Inoortion Trounces             2691       2691         0         0         0         0       6382
Hicroscope                    10605      10605         0         0         0          0     21210
Other aeall equipment         13636      13836         0         0         0         0      27270
Sub-Total                       00848     00848          0         0         0          0    18168s
Total D4VESTgT COSTS                  775612    881599    678214    #69616   1084710   1201028   6783079
II. RECwRT COSTS
A. Equipment llainteaence
Cemputar* 8760                            8760      12500         0     16000     16000      70000
S. Vehicle Maintenance
Vehicles                       10000     16607      16667     1667      16667      1667      93333
C. Coveremeot Pevooan1o
10 Doctors O AO (0)              626       62S       623        620       626       625       3760
10 Docteors eo  (60)            1260      1250      1260       1260      1260      1250       7600
I Contracop. Spec. (5m0)        1080      1080      1080       1080      1080       1080      6490
Sub-Total                        2956      2955      2965       2D65      2096      296       17730
Total RECUREPIT COSTS                  16705      2887      32122     34622     34622      84622    181063
Total                              792817    o9097      905336   1001530   1119832   1235650   6964142



- 65 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 10
Table 2: FP Posts Equipment £nd SuDDlies
Base Costs in SUS
92        93 84               9C        96         97     Total
X. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipmnt for FP Posts
Rolling Table                  6820      20 0       6820      4960         0          0     26420
Cylindrie Drum 340 _           1111       1111      1111       w0          0         0       4141
Scale (Adults)                 2066       2666      266       1939         0         0       0988
Steril. for pans. 8o0x8o0      2889       2889      2889      2101         0         0      10767
Fuel Hester                     333        833      8aa        242         0         0       1242
Cynocological Table            6866       66        66        4848         0         0      24846
Exuination Light               la6        166       166       1212         0         0       6211
Stool                          1222       1222      1222       689         0         0       4666
Bassin reniforue 926 ml         167        167       167       121         0         0        621
4 litre bassli                 1ill        1ll       1ll        81         0         0        414
Instr. Tray w/ cover            289       289        289       210         0         0       1077
lnstr. Tray (fist)              289       289        289       210         0         0       1077
Instr. Tray 226x125x50          244       244        244       178         0         0        911
Bol  for pinces                 178        178       178        29         0         0        663
Cuvtto do toil. sterIle          67        67         67        40         0         0        248
Surgical gloves 6 1/2           778       778        776       S6          0         0       2899
Surgical Cloves 7              1944       1944      1944      1414         0         0       7247
Surg. Gloves 7 1/2             2777       2777      2777      2020         0         0      10862
Surgical Gloves 9              166       1so"       16        1212         0         0      6211
Bucket for trash                378       870        878       276         0         0       1408
Ouate  pqt 600 gr.              339       883        883       242         0         0      1242
Sphygmanomster                  222       222        222       162         0         0       828
Sthethoscopo binaural            78         78        78        57         0         0        290
Pince porto-tompon              183        188      la8         97         0         0        497
Pince a ?asu  germs             467       467        407       889         0         0       1739
Tonsculum                      1000      1000       1000       727         0         0      8727
Sonde uterine simwon           1111       1111      1111       80          0         0      4141
Speculum bivalves groves        288       288        288       170         0         0       870
Speculum bivalves ioyen         467       467       467       389          0         0      1739
Speculum bivalve grand          288       288        288       170         0         0       870
Medicil Training Equip.      126260    126250    126260    126250    162260    126260    767600
Bucket W/ faucet                444       444        444       328         0         0      165
Sub-Total                     163284    106284    168234    16)147    126250    126260    895348
B. Furniture for FP Prots
Desk                           6481      6461      6481       4718         0         0     24166
Table                          878       8708      8708       2698         0         0     13803
Bench                          5666      6665      5665       4040         0         0     20706
Chires (O/FP)                  1656      56655     565        4040         0         0     20705
Sub-Total                      21294     21294     21294      15487         0         0     79369
C. ContraeoptAves
Pills Microg. 13/yr.          284"      33816     89486     45396      52697     64058    263819
Inject. depprovre  4/yr.      81272     96735    112901    12979     150392    168763    739862
IUD (1 every 2 yr..)           1944        858      2347       757      2141       1107      9438
Barrier Cent. Moth 240/yr    112828    184292    16721    206596    208677    284242   1068450
Other                           1892      1650      1982      2232      2500       m2       12684
Sub-Total                     226902    266852    81387    384770    417166    471142   2079246
B. Motorcyclee                      82508         0         0         0          0         0     92688
TiCOS0801    4C1M  _OOOOOW_  6_0200   C 4 4C5l9  00034.4
Total INVESEN  COSTS                  608018    451886    407914    668412   5S484181   597892   8148649



- 66 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 10
Table 2: FP Posts Equipment and SuDD1ies
(continued)
SI. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Mdicel Sup. for FP Posts
BMnzalkonium (5 litreo)        1914      1914      1914      1392          0         0      7134
°;ches et Registret           20000    0OO0O      40000     60000    60000       70000    270000
Alcohol iode (6 litres)        1914      1914      1914      1392         0          0      7134
Alcohol denature 960 L         1320      132G      1820       960         0          0      4920
-------                  flc----e --------   ------- _ _ _ _ _
Sub-Total                      26148     36148     46148     63744     60000      70000    289188
S. Governent Personnel
Contraceptive Specialist       1080      1080      1080      1080       1080      1080      648')
IEC HL Central 3 per*.         3760      8760      8760      3760      3750      8750      22600
IEC ML 4 prer. (S0!)           4320      4320      4320      4320      4320      4320      26920
1 ML MOH (308)                  83        833 S833            83        833       833       5000
10 Doctors MON (40%)          10417     10417     10417     10417     10417      10417    62600
10 Doctors ONAPO (708) R      18750     18760     18760     18750     18760     18760    112500
82 Nurses (R -60S)            77080     77080     77080     77080     77080      77080    462480
10 IEC Spec. (R-802)          18000     19000     18000     18000     18000     15000    108000
--e                _______ ______ . -           --  - _____ e___
Sub-Total                     134230    134230    134280    184230    134230    134280    805380
C. motorcycle Oper. A Maint.      114583    114653    114688    114583    114683    114S8    687500
0. Sup. FP Pos.&HC ONAPO/MIH
2 Agent 30 days ea. CENT       2500      1876      1260      1260      1250      1250      9376
1 Driv. 80 d. eo. CENT          625       448       313       313       313       313      2323
2 Agmts 3 days so. (R)         1876      1250      1260      1260      1250      1260       8125
1 Driv. 3 days on. Rog.         469       313       813       813       313       3s1      2031
Sub-Total                       5469      3886      3126      3125      3126      8126     21864
E. Stipends Net. Pop. Week
Central - Agents               1468      1468      1468      1468      1468      1450      8760
Central Drivers                 729       729       729       729       729       729      4376
Regional - Agents              4876      4876      4876      4376      4375      4376     26260
Regional - Drivers             218S      2188      2188      2180      2188      2118     13126
Sub-Total                       8750      0750      8750      8760      8760      8760     52600
Total RECURRENT COSTS0 881                     296597    3         814482    320688    330600   1866422
swasumam {°91X§8e             wQ     = mauuu      uinaain  VA2971
Toteal                            791193    747976    808761    670745    864126    928080   5002971



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 10
Table 3: Su2port to IEC Stratea
Base Coats in tUS
92       93       94       96      9s        97    Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Technical Asuistance
Short-term Consultants       12000    12000    12000        0        0        0    86000
S/T Local Cons. Prim. Sch        0     2600        0        0        0        A     2600
S/T Local Cons. See. Sch.    2500         0        0        0        0        0     2600
Sub-Total                     14500    14500    12000        0        0        0    41000
8. Sens. of Women TRAINING            0        0   100000        0        0         0   100000
C. Training
Pre-sch. & Prim Sch. Prog     2450    25000        0        0        0        0    27460
Ref. Courses CERAI(prior)        0        0        0    30000        0        0    30000
Training CERAI               21000    21000    21000    21000    21000    21000   126000
Ref. CERAI of lot 3 yrs.         0        0        0        0        0    18000   18000
Trng. Teachers in Schools    6260      6260     5250     6250     5250     6260   31600
Auxiliaries FP               10600    10600    10600    10600    10500    10600   63000
Sub-Tots l                    39200    81760    38750    76670    3670    64750   296950
0. Materials Notl. Pop. Weok
Banners                      21250    21260    21260    21250    21250    21260  127500
Posters                       2083     2083     2083    2083      2083    2083    12600
Stickere                      2083     2083     2083     2088     2083     2083    12600
Dancing/Singing Contest       4687     4687     4887    4687    4667       4667    28000
Radio broadcasting             800'     800      800      800      800      0o0    4800
Spots                          875      876      875      875      875      87b     5260
Booklets                       417      417      417      417      417      417     2600
Fliers                        2260     2260     2260    2260    2260    2260    13600
Curric. for Ferm. life Ed.       0    16687    18667    1687    16687    1667    83333
Sub-Tota l                    34425    61092    61092    51092   51092    51092  289883
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               88125   127342   199842   117842    87842   106842   726833
=           -       1                  -3 10584 023
Toto l                            88125   127842   199842   117842    87842   105842   726833



Table 4: Volontaires Abagangurambaba
quantity                 lUnit Cost                aset  Costs in BUS
92-93       94    95-97    Toeta        92-97        92-93         94     96-97     Totel
I. IVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equip_mt/llcentives
Mbtorcycloe                     22       22       22       132       202000        37033     37033     37033   222200
Wheelbarrous                   220      220      220      1320         6050         9250      9258      9268    65660
Shovels                      10622    10522    10622   63132           e60         63136     63138     63136    318817
Radio*                         100      100       100      000         6060         6050      5060      6050     30300
Bicyclee                        10       10       10        60        30300         2626      2625      2626     15160
Sub-Total                                                                          107003    107003    107003   642017
. Training                                                                                                                             o
Trng. for v2lunteers         17636    17536    17536   106216          6400       789120    789120    789120  4734720
Trainers per dim               270      270      270      1620         4000         9000      9000      9000     64000
Ref. for Come. Trainers          0      436        0      436          7600            0     27168         0     27188
Ref. Prefecture Troiners         0      110        0      110          3000            0      2760         0      2760
Naot Refreber Tralners           0       33        0       33         6000             0      1660         0       IS0
Sub-Total                                                                       -796120    829707    798120  4920307
C. Technical Assistonce               I        1        0        3      1440000         1200      12000         0     3600
Total DNESTMNt COSIS                                                                      917123    948710    905123    498324
It. RECaWNT COSTS
Supervision & Stipends
Coupon                       17630    17636    17636  106216           240        36072     36072      36072   210432
mati. sups. Staff 40 d/yr       11       11       11       6        100000         9167      9107       9107    56000
NatO. Supv. 40 d/yr Driv.       11       11       11       60        60000         4683      4683       4683    27600    Do
Supv. cer. tech. 6 d/yr        146      146      146      670        10000        12083     12083      12083    72600    >
Sups. Corn. driv. Ud/yr        146      146      145      070         5000         6042      6042      6042     36250     o
-- -- -- - -- - ------ -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- - A tS
Sub-Total                                                                          66947     68947     66947   401682         z
9. Supplies
Cahler de Nonage             18000    16000    1800    108000           60         9000      9000      9000    64000
Pons                         is8      18000    18is0   108000           25         3750      3760      3760    22500
Sub-Total                                                                          12760     12760     12760    76500
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                     79697     79697     79697   478182
Total                                                                                 996820   1028407    984820  697606



Table 5: Research/Development of Multisectoral Population Activities
Quanti ty              Unit Cost.                      ase Costs in SUS
92    93 94-96 98-97 Total          92-87           92        93     94-96      96-97     Totae
I. INVES      COSTS
A. Stuie
Infant/Maternal Mortality      1     1    0      0     1      35200000        14667    14687           0          0    293333
Mlgret.on                     0      0     1     0     2       6000000            0          0     41687          0     83333
Strength. of Info System       1     I     0     0     1        250000          1042      1042         0          0      2083
Sub-Total                                                                      147708    147708     41667          0    378760
S. Multisectoral Activities        -     -     -     -     -              -        188860    1o6860    o60o    166          999960
C. Equipment
Computer                       1    0      0     0     1        606000          4208         0         0         0       4208
Printer                        1     0     0     0     1        252600          2104         0         0          0      2104
Sof twor.                      1    0      0     0     1        256200          2104         0         0         0       2104
Sub-Tol                                                                         8417          0         0         0       8417
0. Seminars                                                                                                                                   a
Population Seminars            1     1     1     1    6        1200000         10000     10000     20000     1000      80000
E. TechnIcal Assistance
S/T Intl. Consultant          0     0      3     0     8       1440000            0          0     36000         0     72000
Total INVESTMET COSTS                                                                 332786    324368    264327    17680   1619127
U1. RECURRE COSTS
A. Equipment  alnteaonco
Comter                        I     1      1     1    8         10000          120       120        1250      1260      7500
1B. Office Suppli.e
Supplies                      1     I      1     1    8         2a0000         2083      2083      2093       2083     12600
C. Govornment Personnel
01L Reseorch be4t. (2)       24    24    24    24   144          26000         6000      6000      6000       6000     30000
.L Rosearch Dept. (2)        24    24    24    24   144          21600         4320      4320      4320       4320     26920   to
IEC SpecialIsts Cent. (7)    28    28    20    28   168          21600         6040      6040      6040       6040     30240
IEC Specialists (R) 10       30    30    30    30   180          21600         6400      6400      6400       5400     324Q0      D
G% z
Sub-Total                                                                      19760     19760     19760      19760    1185600    z
0 t.
Total RECUREN  COSTS                                                                  23093     23093     23093      23093    138660
Tote  366878=347--2-   277=20=1997 _=__= -   ---
Total1                                                                            355878    347462    277420    199753   1657887



- 70 -
Page 7 of 10
Table 6: Project Management Unit-_SAP
BeO Costa In Ws
92       98        94        96        98        97    Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment
Computer                     12626         0         0         0         0         0     12626
Printer                       6812         0         0         0         0         0      6312
Photocopier                   4208         0         0         0         0         0      4208
Calculators                   3367         0         0         0         0         0      8367
Sub-Total                     26612         0         0         0         0        0    26512
S. Technical Assistance
Dep. Project Manager INTL   100000   100000   100000           0         0         0    300000
Procurement Cons. Serv.       5000      6000      6000      6000      6000      6000    30000
Procurment Specialist         6000      8ooo      8000      8000      8000      8000    48000
Accountant                    8000      8000      8000      6000      8000      800     48000
Sub-Total                    121000   121000    121000    21000    21000    21000   428000
C. Office Materials              160000         0         0         0         0        0    160000
0. Training
Project Managemont               0     10000         0         0         0        0    10000
Procuremnt                       0     10000         0         0         0        0     10000
Accounting                   10000         0         0         0         0        0     10000
Financial Managment          10000         0         0         0         0        0     10000
Sub-Total                     20000    20000          0         0         0        0    40000
E. Vehicles
Vano                         16600    16500    16500           0     16600        0    66000
Vane 4 X 4                   68760         0         0         0        0         0    68760
Van 'simple cabine'          21642         0         0         0         0        0    21642
4 X 4                        32083    64167          0         0         0        0     986260
Car                              0         0     16668         0    62333         0     77917
Sub-Tota l                   138876    80687    32083           0     76883        0   3304568
F. Furnituro
Desks                          884         0         0         0         0        0       864
Tables                         337         0         0         0        0         0       337
Chairs                         606         0         0         0        0         0       605
…________ --------- --------- -------- --------- --------- ---------
Sub-Total                      1726         0         0         0        0         0      1726
_--- -------- --------- --------- --------- --------- ---------_____
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              46S113   221667    153083    21000    99683       21000   974689
II.-RECURRENT COSTS
_______________
A. Equ;pment Maintenance
Comouter                      3750      3760      3750      3760     3750      3760    22500
Photocopier                   4000      4000      4000      4000     4000      4000    24000
Sub-Total                       7760     7760      7760      7750      7760      "70     04600
8. Materials £ Supplie            8333      8888      883     8      8 8388         8888    60000
C. Vehicle Oper. a Maint.         0oooo     75000    91"67      91167   183338    138888   576000
0. Travel Allowance
Project Coordinator             417      417       417       417       417       417      2600
Financial Managor              417       417       417       417       417       417      2600
Accountant                     417       417       417       417       417       417      2500
Procurement Specialist          417      417       417       417       417       417      2600
Sub-Total                       1"7       1667     167      1zo7       1667      1667    10000
E. Salary Project Coord.           2600      2500      2500    a2o5        2500      2600    16000
--- -     ---- -  ---a -ea_ -------ea _0 __ _ -eaea ------   - - - - - - - - -
Total RECURRENT COSTS                70250    96250   111917    111917    16a358    168358   698500
Total                            526803    316917    266000   132917   263417    174683   1671196



Table 7a: Summary Accounts by Year
Base Costs
(thousand of FRW)
easo Costs                                       Foreign Enchango
92           93        94        95         S6        97     Tota I         $   Amount
1. INVESTNW  COSTS
___________________
A. Equipment, Fern  Mat.             77038     68439      44720     41207     34121     34121    290448           62    238939
9., Vehlclea                         27776      9880       3860         0      9460          0     s076e          S3     47050
C. Contraceptives                    90062    106684    124981    146396    166422    186856    821393           100    821393
0. Training and Soemnare            117884    120590    130980    118790    115190    117360   720782              S     32782
E. Tochnical Ass8stanCo              17700     17700      21720      6840      2620      2620     69000           80     56080
F. Studies                           37724     37724      24999     24999     19999     19999    165446           s0     82723
Totol INVESTMENT COSTS              38S972    350817    361261    338234    347713    380846   2117833            60   1277967
II. RECURRENT COSTS
0. Equipment Maintenance              4648      6348       7998      9329     10080     11280     49683           28     13746
H. VehiclO MointnSnco                20960     24750     26750      20760     31760     31760    162700           80    130160
I.  Covernment Salaries              19133     19133     19133      19133     19133     19133    1148O0            0         0
J. Stipends and Travel                9940      9750      9S69      9069       9659      9859     68324            0         0
R. Supplies A Materials               2780      2780       2790      2780      2780      2780     18880           8o     23344
Total RECURRENT COSTS                67361     62761     66320      67651     73402     74602    402097           39    167250
Total DASELINE COSTS                426323    413678    417671    406886   421116   435447   2519920              67   3436217
PhysDicl Contingoncies            20694     20868     21108     22646      26461     28679    137367          92    128103
Prico Contingencies               19716     48661     70393     89630    110730    138346    474364           37    175216
TotoO PROJECT COSTS                 48832    483097    609071    517063    667306    698472   3131641             55   1733634
=-      -------------=======-___=---====                -- ====         __          --S_
Tanes                              2478      1694       968       616       1561       469      7672           0         0          N
Foreign Exchange                 259390    263918    278412    280476    314777    341S62   1736634          100   1738534          co
CD z
Olz
,1Pn



- 72 -
ANNX IV
Pags 9 of 10
Table.7b: Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
(thousand of US $)
92        98        94        96        to         97     Totsl
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment, Furn, Mat.                722       573       450       439       879       894       2916
6. Vehicles                             259        94        89         0       102         0        498
C. Contfseeptivcs                       840      1081      1262      1sle      1789      2081       6512
0. Training and Seminars               1062      1204      1376      1817      1834       1420      7718
E. .echnical Assistance                 162       169       201        6e-    29           0o        689
F. Studies                              822      834        216       218       187       167       1423
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 a67       8896      8542     a851       8799      4091      21746
1t. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Equipment Maintenance                 44        67        69       109       124       146        680
S. Vehicle Maintenance                  198       248       277       208       854       I#8       1731
C. Covernment Selaries                  173       192       208       218       223       288       1237
0. Stipends and Travel                   90        go       103       108       112       117       628
E. Supplies A Materiel.                  26        28        29        so        81        32        176
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   581      6831       700       747       845       896      4351
Total PROJECT COSTS                    8889      4026      4242      4309      4844      4987     26097
ae               0 e0------  -  --  -   -   ---  _ _ _ _ _ _ - -  -                               _



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 10
Table 7c:-Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
(thousand of FRW)
92        93        94        96        90        97     Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment, ur°e, Mat.             88800     68816      64978     52689     46526     47250    366864
B. Vehicles                          31102      11230      4627         0     12203         0     59163
C. Contraceptives                   100840    123786    160212    182287    214680    249716   1021499
D. Training and Seminars            127497    144477    166148    168021    160067    170S84    926696
E. Technical Assistance              18187      19048     24136      8197      3468      3605     76824
F. Studies                           38637     40031      26918     26171     19999     19999    170764
Total INVESTMJNT COSTS              402864    407367    426012    427aB65 - 466928    490953   2609488
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Equipment Maintenance              6301       8054     10699     18117     14919     17490     69680
S. Vehicle Maintenance               23769      29353     83219     34512     42621     44140    207890
C. Government Salaries               20760      23069     24381     26678     26724     27927    148438
0. Stipends and Travol               10785      11766     12308     12909     13490     14097     76345
E. Supplies A Materials               8154       8817      3452      8587      8723      3865     21098
Total RECURRENT COSTS                63768      76730     64059     89698    101378    107619    622165
Total PROJECT COSTS                 46632   483097    609071    517083    667806    598472  8131641
-__e___
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I.                   an                 - .,  -                   --



- 74 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 1
RESEAUCH CARRIED OUT BY ONAPO SINCE 1982
Dans los domaines des etudes et de la reche-che socio-d4mographique.
l'ONAPO compte A son actif les rdalisations ci-apres:
1)   L'enquOte Nationale sur la F4condit4 rdalis4e en 1983;
2)   L'enqugte sur la contraception traditionnelle r4alis4e en 1984;
3)   L'§tude de Xa relation population/d6veloppement commencde en 1984
et qui comprend trois parties, A savoir:
3.1  Analyse de la situation actuelle:
- Ddmographie
- Porplation et activit6 @conomique
- Population et santO
- Population et alimentation
Population et nutrition
- Population et d6veloppement rural
- Population et urbanisation
- Population et scolarisation
- IntOwration de la femme au ddveloppement
- Impart des projets de d4veloppement
- Population et habitat
3.2 Mod6lisation
3.3  De.ermination des politiques de population
4)   Les projections d4mographiques de la population rwandaise,
1982-2000;
5)   L'enqulte sur lob !esoina non satisfaits en SKI/PF r4alis4e en 1985;
o)   Sondage our les attitudes et pratiques de la population en matire de
f4condit4 dans les Communes de Birenga et Rukira (Kibungo) 1982-
1983;
7)   Evaluation des activitds do sensibilisation dans leS zones pilotes
des pr6fectures Kitungo et Kigali, 1993-1984;
8)   Le sondage sur les besoins des 4lves dans le domaine de Vl4ducation
pour Is vie familiale, 1985;
9)   Le rapport sur l'utilisation des diff4rentes mdthodes contraceptives.
1985;
10) L'enquOte sur la communication/sant6, 1985.



- 75 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
TARGETED DONORS INTERVENTION IN RWANDA
USAID
L'USAID a prOtO son support A l'ONAPO depuis sa cr4ation et sor
apport a repr6sent6 68,8? des contributions des apports extErieurs dans le
domaine de la SMI/PF (1982-1988). Le gouvernement rwandais vient de signer
un accord de subvention de 9 millions de dollars pour un projet de SMI/PF
dont le but est de r4duire le taux de natalit4 au Rwanda grAce A une
meilleure disponibilit4 des services de PF A travers les secteurs public et
privA (1988-1992). Les 4l6ments du projet renforceront:
A)   L'appui au d4veloppement de la politique de population et la
recherche (l'ONAPO) par le projet RAPID III, l'4tude coat-
efficacit6 des programumes de PF au Rwanda, l'enqu@te
d4mographique et sante (Demographic and Health Survey) et des
4tudes do recherches op@rationnelles.
3)   La prestation de services en matiAre de PF en apportant son
soutien dans lee centres de santO du MINISANTE pour
l'intdgration de le PF part
-    lIamdlioration de la prestation de services;
-    I'am6lioration des systimes logistiques et dlinformation
oanitaire (distribution des contraceptife); et
-    dans le secteur privO et dans les circuits de distribution
non sanitaires (distribution de certains contraceptif. -
condoms et spermicides) par commercialisation social. avec
Vlassistance du projet OSOMARC 110.
C)   L'Information, Education et Communication (IEC) A savoir
formation du pegsonnel public et privO, matOriel didactique
Otendu A plusieurs groupos cibles, formation des Abakangurambaga
et distribution des msatrials destinEs aus programmes de PF.
D)   L'appui institutionnel pour accroltre la capacitO de gestion.
Les activitds visant A l'am4lioration de la capacitO de gestion de
l'ONAPO se concentrecont sur lee sytemes de gestion comptable et financi&re,
la planification et la budg6tisation, la gestion des ressources hwuaines,
l'achat et lgentretien des installations de lO'quipement et des vOhicules.
Par aVleurs le projet suivant est financ6 & partlr de 1AID/
Washington:
Le projet JHPIEGO, attachO A l'UniversitO Nationale ;u Rwanda,
prOvoit la mise en place dun notaveau programme de formatic  locale de trois
ans en Sant6 Reproductrice and sur lee techniques de planification faiiliale
(en particulier linsertion du DIU) A llintentlon de 120 mOdecine rwandais.



- 76 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
GTZ: GeselIschaft fUr Technische Zusainenarbeit             to Te i
Alle_uandte I 
Ce projet d'assistance & l'ONAPO a 4t0 initi4 en 1985 pour renforcer
la prestation de services dans deux prefectur2s du pays  iButarew et
aGikongoron (2 million de dollars E.U). Les principales activitOs de ce
projet sont:
A)   recyclage du personnel de sant6 en SMI/PF;
B)   s4minaires de sensibilisation pour les bourgmestres, les jeunes
et les assistant(e)s sociaux et autres cadres de d6veloppement;
C)   introduction de mat6riel didactique sur is PP dans les 6coles;
et
!j   la construction d'un centre r4gional administratif & Gikongoro.
UCES
Les activit@s de planification familiale de l'UNICEF sont r4duites au
Rwanda et ddpendent des contributions des autres donateurs. En 1987,
l'UNICEF a finance un centre de production audio-visuelle & l'ONAPO et do
1'Equipement (TV video) pour les activit6s do formation dans les bureaux
r4gionaux.
Pour son programme 1988-1992 l'UNICEF s'associe aux efforts de
l'ONAPO pour augmenter la pr4valence contraceptive par l'intdgration et la
production de mat6riel audio-visuel des *coles d'linfirmi&res et
d'assistantes socialos et la formation en PF d'agents communautaires au
niveau communal.
LOO.M.S. re;oit des fonds de la Banque Mondiale pour une assistance
technique au projet Sant6 Familiale (IINISANTE).  Par ailleurs, l'OMS est en
train de mettre sur pied un Centre Regional Africain pour la Formation et la
Recherche en Sante Familiale.
PHUA  (Fonds des Nfations Rates Dou-r IsPouain
La contribution du FNUAP au prograumme d  PF & l'ONAPO remonte & 1982.
La troisihm phase du projet (1987-'989) vient do s'achever. Le PNQAP
intervient principaleert dansa
A)   La famation (recyclage du personnel de sant6 an clinique de
MI);
B)   is fournlture des Oquipements medicaux de SKI/PF;
C)   la construction des structures de sant6;
D)   la fourniture des moyens logistiques (contraceptifa,
v6hicules...)



- 77 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
E)   la fourniture d'une documentation en PF; et
F)   la subvention & l'ONAPO en couvrant certains frais locaux (comme
la maintenance des 4quipements et v4hicules, fournitures de
bureau...).
La contribution du FNUAP & cette phase qui slach&ve s'4levait A
US$ 1.124.580. Une autre phase de projet de 2 ans (1990-1991) pour un
montant de US$ 1.300.000 est en cours de negociation.



- 78 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 2
OFFICIAL STATEMENTS ON POPULATION ISSUES IN RWANDA
Le Chef do 1'Etat a fait plusieurs dEclarations dans le domaine
demographique; A titre illustratif nous prEsentons ci-apris quelques unes
d'entre elles pour montrer cette Evolution des pensdes.
1973: Discours progranmme du ler ao0t 1973 (extrat
'Quant aux problbmes posEs par l'accroissement dEmographique du
peuple r%vandais, nous en soemmes conscient, et ils devront retenir
constamment notre sErieuse attention. Nous estimons cependant qu'une mise
en garde ost nEcessaire pour ceux qui sont tent#s d'appliquer des solutions
hAtives, fruit d'une certaine littErature dont .l'Egolsme de ses auteurs est
A peine voilEe. La solution que nous recherchons est une solution qui soit
rwandaise. compte tenu de nlos mentalitEs, de nos valeurs morales, do notre
culture, de nos possibilitEs et de la solidarit6 humaine".
(Discours, messages et-entretiens, 5 juillet 1973 -
ddcembre 1974, p. 25)
Message de son Excellence le GEnEral Major Hlabyarimana JuvEnal,
PrEsident do la REpublique A looccasion des cErEmonies
dlouverture do la Semaine Nationale do la Population et du
Festival do la Jeunesse. Edition 1989
uPour la troisi&me fois depuis 1987, nous cElEbrone partout dans
notre pays la semaine coneacrde au Festival de la Jeunesse. Depuis l'ann6e
derni&re 1988, le Ministbre de la Jeunesse et du Mouvement Associatif. ot
l'Office National de la Population (ONAPO) ont dEcidE do prEparer et do
comELmorer conjointement cette semaine af in dasider la population
rwandaise. et en particulier la jeunesse, a rEflEchir aux probl#mes do
d6veloppement en gEnEral et & ceux ayant trait A Ilaccroissement
dEmographique do notre pays qui n'est pas proportionnel & celui de la
production nationale et familiale. Llinstitutionnalisation do cette
semaine par ces deux DEpartements vise aussi & faire comprendre aux jeunes
que 1e pays attend beaucoup deoux dans la recherche de solutions adEquates
aux multiples problAmoo dlactualitd.
Pour quo nous puisooons aboutir au dEveloppement qua nous
recherchono, il imaporte que nous poursuivions notre programe de rEalisor
l'Equilibre entre Ilaccroissement dEmographique do notre pays et celui do
ln production. Chequo Ruamndaise et chaque Rwandais doLt toujoure
s'offorcer de rocherchor' tout ce qul pout contribuer & IlamElioration de
son bien-Otro, du bion-.ftgo de sa famille. Cola no aera possible quo si
chaque fam±llo Elaboro son plan dlautc1-promotion. pour see mombres et ses
descondanto. Ainsi noo Joune, surtout ceux qui noont peas encore fondE
leuro foyoge, dolvent comprondre qu'ils sont les premiere A Otre concernEs
per co problbmo car cloot do lour comportement que dEpendra la solution
appgoprido. 0Tubyogo cibo duchoboye kurerag (Ayono doe enfants que nous
sommes en mocuro dl6duquer), tol oat l'objoctif ult5me do l'Office National
de la Populidtion (ONAPO); cleat ausci Vlobjectif do notre pays et par
conoEquent de tout Rv.endoai qual qu'il soit. Je voudraio eAmplement



- 79 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 2
rappelet qu'6duquer ne se limite pas au seul fait de nourrir les enfants.
Eduquer Un enfant implique aussi lui procurer un logement d4cent,
l'habiller convenablement, le mettre A l'Ocole, le faire soigner s'il est
malade (sans oublier l'achat des mOdicaments), l'aider A fonder son foyer
le moment venu et J'en passe.
Le Gouvernement Rwandals a manifest4 l'importance qulil accorde au
programme de planification famillale en crdant l'Office National de la
Population. Cet office a comme mission principale d'aider le Gouvernement
et la Population Rwandaise A trouver des solutions au problAme de
dds4quilibre entre la population et la production.
Aujourd'hui, l'on ne peut que se f6liciter du pas franchi par cet
Office et de ses r4alisations. Actuellement, presque tous les Rwandais
sont conscients de la portee du problbme et sont sensibilis4s aux solutions
& adopter pour le rdsoudre d4finitivement. I1 ne reste qu'A mettre en
pratique les mdthodes pr4conis4es par nos techniciens, chaque famille dtant
libre de choisir la mdthode qui lul convient selon sa conscience. Nous
saisissons cette occasion pour demander a toutes les instances concern4es,
surtout celles ayant la Sante dans leurs attributions, de mettre davantage
les services de planification familiale A la disposition de la population,
de montrer clairement les mdthodes qul conviennent et de r6server A la
population l'accuell qu'il faut quand elle so pr6sente pour demander les
services.
A cette occasion, je ne manqueral pas de r4itErer mes remorciements A
tous ceus qui ont manifeste  la volontO d'alder le Gouvernement Rwandais A
trouver la meilleure vole A suivre pour chercher des solutions au problAme
domo-4conomique de noere pays. L'objectlf premier do nous tous, c'est le
dXveloppement des Rwandais pour qul nous devons chercher les voles et
moyens de r4soudre leurs problAmes. Quo tout le mondo parle r6ellemene et
publiquemene de l'acuit6 du probl6me d4mographique de notre pays; qu'lil y
alt des discussions et Ochanges d'liddes sur la fa9on do le r4soudre. Coest
un problOme do premier ordre et d°actuallit que nous no devons pas lguer A
nos enfants ou & nos petits enfants. Touts autorit4 dolt en Otre
prdoccup6e. Car mfme coluL qul se crolralt aujourd*hui autosuffisont ne
devrait pas perdre de vue le fait qu'une vraie autosuffisance est celle qui
tient compto du londemain. X1 dolt donc Otre conscient du falt que lui
aussi eat appel4 A la lutte pour Is sauvegarde doe lntdrts de toute le
nation et du.Rweada de demain.
Nous avons l'lintelligence et les capacltes. Servons-nous-en pour
ralieog uan ddveloppement harmonieus do noo families et de notre pays.
LQ Cd itd Central du MRND a Omis le souhait d'un nombre de quatro
enfanto par fmAille.  11 a 8us8l recormandO que la population rtandaise
ocit sensiblllseo quane & ce nombre de quatre onfants ceme Otant iddal
pour une amfillo swandsise au stade actuel. Hali il paralt quo mdmo co
nombre seorsit  lev) nl lon conoidbre 1e revenu des families rgandalses
actuellement.  Co nomgeo devrait sorvir de suggestoan A chaque Rwandais qul
vout ot eec   o harh    planifier ea famillo.0



O N A P 0
P R O J E C T O R C A N I Z A T I O N A L C H A R T
|OAPO Direction
E                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Programs and Studies           Project Administration Unit         Administrative and                    0
Section                            (PAU)                    Financial Section
. Projector Coordinator
. Advisor
. Accountant
. Procurement Specialist
. Support Staff
aesarch         Family                                       AccoutnProcurement
and Studies      Planning
Medical                   C014
Policy                                                                                            .t-



- 81 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 6
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE PROJECT COORDINATOR
Position:   Project coordinator
Duration:   6 years
Location:   Kigali, Rwanda, ONAPO
_ualifications: Preferably a physician with adequate training in public
health. This person should have at least 8 years of experience in the
management of health and FP programs at the national level in Rwanda.
He/she should be very familiar with ONAPO9s activities and managerial
procedures. This coordinator will be the national counterpart to the
long term advisor. A good command of the English language is desirable.
Responsibilitieslduties: The project coordinator will report to the
ONAPO Director. He/she will aLso relate to the technical and
administrative services of ONAPO in the implementation of his work.
He/she will head the Project Administrative Unit, and the personnel
working in this unit will report to him/her.  He/she will assist the
ONAPO Director in:
a) ensuring the efficient operation of the PAU which would have
as primary responsibility the overall management and execution of this
project while ensuring day-to-day supervision and coordination of short-
term technical assistance;
b) coordinating the activities of and providing substantial
technical input to the different activities of the project at the
central, as well as regional levels (more specifically these activities
would includes (i) the support to the implementation of the outreach FP
strategy; (11) the supervision of the PP service delivered at the NC
level; and (iii) the suprort to the implementation of studies and
surveys); and elaborating the annual work program including the budget
to be executed In the context of the proposed project;
c) ensuring that the master training plan agreed upon is timely
implemented;
d) designing, in close collaboration with the Project Advisor, a
financial, accounting, and a procurement system that would be
satisfactory in fulfilling IDA's requirements in these areas;
3)  ensuring that procurement procedures acceptable to IDA are
followed and that the procurement schedule agreed upon Is monitored
adequately;



82 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 6
f) ensuring that there is effective coordination between the
project, the NOR and the donor agencies and organizing the annual donors
meeting;
g) taking the initiative for problem solving;
h) during project implementation, ensuring adequate coordination
between the technical sections of ONAPO and ensuring that these sections
provide an adequate input to project activities; and
i) ensuring that the collaboration mechanisms agreed upon between
MOH and ONAPO function adequately at the central and regional level.



- 83 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 6
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE PROJECT_ADVISOR
Position:   Long-term Project Adivsor
Durations   January 1, 1992 - December 31, 1994
Location:   Kigali, Rwanda, Rwandese Population Office - ONAPO
Qualifications: preferably a physician with a hPH or a Master in
management oz health services. This person should have at least 6 years
of experience in the management of population projects in Africa.
Experience in francophone Africa preferable. Fluency in French is a
prerequisite and a good command of the English language is necessary.
Resvonsabilities/Duties: the Project Advisor will report to the ONAPO
Director. He/she will be part of the Project Administration Unit (PAU)
and will be the counterpart of the local Project Coordinator. The main
administrative and technical responsibilities of the Project Advisor
will be to assist the Project Coordinator and the ONAPO Director in&
a) ensuring the efficient operation of the PAU which would have as
primary responsibility the overall management and execution of this
project while ensuring day-to-day supervision and coordination of short-
term technical assistance;
b) coordinating the activities of and providing substantial
technical input to the different activities of the project at the
central, as well as regional levels (more specifically these activities
would includet (i) the support to the implementation of the outreach FP
strategy; (iil the supervision of the FP service delivered at the HC
level; and (iii) the support to the implementation of studies and
surveys); and assisting the elaboration of the annual work program to be
executed in the context of the proposed project;
c) ensuring that the master training plan agreed upon ls timely
implemented;
d) providing extensive training to the PAU and ONAPO setaff in
procurement and financial management;
e) designing in close collaboration with the Project Coordinator,
a financial, accounting, and a procurement system that would be
satisfactory in fulfilling IDA's requirements in these areas;
f) ensuring that procurement procedures acceptable to IDA are
followed and that the procurement schedule agreed upon is monitored
adequately; and
8) ensuring that there is effective coordination between the
project, the HON and the donor agencies and organizing the annual donor
meeting.



- 84 -
ANlNEX VIII
Page 5 of 6
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE ACCOUNTANT
Duration:   6 years (renewable every 2 years)
Profile:
This person must have at least 3 years of work experience as an
accountant, preferably having worked on a donor-financed project.
He/she will have a 4-year university degree with a major in accounting;
familiarity with computers would be a strong advantage. He/she will
have to become familiar with IDA accounting and disbursement procedures,
hence, proficiency in English would be preferable.
Functions of the Accountant:
a) under the supervision of the Project Coordinator and the Chief
of the Financial and Admin$strative Unit (PAU), he/she will be
responsible for maintaining all accounting records and closely
monitoring expenditures pertinent to the project;
b) in collaboration with the Project Advisor and USAID Technical
Assistant who will be working in the FAU, he/she will provide input on
IDA requirements for the automation of the accounting system;
c) he/she wlll produce quarterly financial statements on the
financial otatus of each project component (and will maintain all
background materials documented under SOE) and a budget for planned
expenditures for the following 3-month period to be submitted to IDA;
d) in collaboration with the Project Advisor, the Procurement
Specialist and the Project Coordinator, he/she will liaise for budgeting
and accounting purposes for purchases of contraceptives and other
equipment and supplies; and
e) in collaboration with the Project Coordinator, he/she will
assist in thv elaboration of a yearly budget based on work program to be
submitted to IDA.



- 85 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 6 of 6
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE PROCURMNT -SPECIALIST
Duration:   6 years (renewable every 2 years)
This person must have at least 3 years of work experience as a
procurement specialist, preferably on a donor-financed project. He/she
will have a 4-year university degree with a major in engineering or
equivalent technical degree; familiarity with computers would be a
strong advantage. He/she will have a thorough knowledge of contract
practices in Rwanda.
Functions of the Procurement Specialist:
a)    under the supervision of the Project Coordinator and the
Chief of the Procurement Unit, he/she will be responsible for the
preparation and follow-up of all bidding documents required for the
project;
.b)    he/she will have to become familiar with the World Bank
Guidelines for Procurement and Sample Bidding Documents;
c)    he/she will have to become familiar with the World Bank
Disbursement Procedures;
d)    for the purchase of contraceptives and other large pieces of
equipment, he/she will have to prepare procurement timetables so as to
avoid shortages in contraceptives throughout the duration of the
project;
e)    he/she wllL work in close collaboration with the accountant
in order to ensure that funds are available in a timely fashion for the
purchase of local supplies and equipment;
f)    during the preparation of the yearly budget, he/she will
have to propose a timetable for the procurement of goods and services
for the following year;



- 86 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 3
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE FAMILY PL.tNNNG POSTS
Family Planning posts will function at least twice a week and will
be staffed by adequately trained health personnel working in nearli
health centers, and, if health personnel is not available, by one of the
ONAPO staff.
*hese posts will be housed in existing facilities.  The fillowing
methods will be available: pills, condoms, IUD's vaginal foans  tablets
and other spermicide. natural family planning. These posts will:
-     deliver adequate Family Planning services to the target
population at risk;
-     ensure the follow-up of current users;
-     refer to higher levels of the health care system: clients
presenting serious side effects or those who want to benefit
from specific methods (Norplant, sterilization);
-     work in close collaboration with the volunteer at the
community level and the health center at the communal level.



- 87 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 3
Tems of Reference
Volunteers
1.          Volunteers (ABAKAGURAMBAUA). Under the project, the tasks of
the volunteers will be carried out primarily in his/her area (target
population: approximately 50 families). He/she will be responsible for:
(a)   providing FP information to the population with a
specific emphasis to: high risk groups and the male
population. The health benefit aspects of PP will be
emphasized in their messages;
(b)   discussing population issues (related to population
pressure and its impact on environment, land,
agriculture, education and health) during meetings and
other events in the community;
(c)   referring potential users to nearby FP posts and
health centers;
(d)   finding drop out cases and encouraging them - as
appropriate - to re-enter the program;
(e)    beginning the second year, supply in condoms and
other non-medical contraceptives to the population as
needed and refill them the beginning of the third year
of the project;
(f)   participating in regular meetings with
multidisciplinary prefectoral and communal teams
involved in the project:
(g)   reporting on a periodic basis to Health Center and FP
staff; and
(h)   keeping adequate records of his/her activities.
I I                                      .   1



-89 -ANNEX X
Page 1 of 1
SUPERVISION PLAN
June 1991            Before Credit Effectiveness   - Population Specialist
(3 SW)                            Financial Analyst
January 1992         Credit EffeQ,Lveness            - Population Specialist
(5 BW)                          - Financial Analyst
- Procurement Specialist
July 1992                                            - Population Specialist
(5 8W)                          - Consultant/Training
aspects
- Consultant IEC
January 1993                                         - Population Specialist
(5 sw)                          - Financial Analyst
- Procurement Specialist
July 1993                                            - Population Specialist
(3 sw)                          - Consultant/Stud? s
aspects
January 1994                                          - Population Specialist
- Procurement Specialist
(Ss w)                          - Financial Analyst
- Consultant IEC
July 1994                                            - Population Specialist
(2 sw)                          - Consultant Studies
December 1994        Mid-term evaluation             - Population Specialist
(a Sw)                          - Procurement Specialist
- Financial Analyst
- Consultant IEC
- Consultant Training
July 1995             (3 sw)                          - Population Specialist
- Consultant IEC
January 1996                                          - Population Specialist
(3 sw)                          - Financial Analyst
July 1996                                             - Population Specialist
(3 mw)                          - Training aspects
January 1997                                          - Population Specialist
(2 ew)                          - Financial Analyst
July 1997                                             - Population Specialist
(2 sw)                          - Consultant IEC
-      I..  .           .   .



- 90 -
NNIEX XI
Page 1 of 2
DETAILED TRAINING PLAN (*
In Country
S.   Family Planning Trainin                                          Number
A. Basic Training in Family Planning for medical assistants,
nurses, auxiliairy nurses working in health centers.             820
B. Refresher courses for medical assistants, nurses,
auxiliary nurses working in health centers.                      269
II.  INC Trainin
A. Training of trainers (5 per region; 10 at the
Central level of ONAPO)                                           65
B. Refresher courses for ONAPO, CPDFP, CCDFP personnel
involved in the training of volunteers (Abakaguramsava)t
- communal trainers (3 per commune)                                435
- prefectoral trainers (10 per prefecture)                         110
C. Refresher courses for F.P. auxiliairies (involved in IEC
training of volunteers).                                       1,329
D. School Program:
Basic IEC training for people attending the CERAIs             360
Refresher IEC training for people attending the CERAIs         480
Training of teachers (Higher Education)                        180
Training of school board directors                             200
III. FaoilZ Planninul 'C Tra&naU
. Community volunteers                                       17,536
*     An annual evaluation of the training plan will be carried out by
ONAPO and MOB staff. Training will be progressively decentralized
with each region taking the responsibility for organizing training
sessions, as soon as some condLtions are met.
**    These volunteers will benefit from annual training ln order to
fulfill their main responsibllities as described in annex IX of
this report.



- 91 -
ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 2
IV. PrcurMLnt rnaeMnt training
- Contraceptive Procurement                                           13
(ONAPO Regional Delegates + 2 ONAPO Central Staff)
- Procurement/Basic principles (ONAPO Central Staff)                   2
- Financial Management (ONAPO Central Staff)                           4



eLDENTAtION SCI   BY PROJECT COMPOENTR
1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997
A. IMtdPROVING QUALITY AND EIFFICIERNCY OF!
FAMiILY PLANINING SM}lICES
-~~                                                          -         -         -
a F.P Curricula reviewed                 March 1
o Basic clinical training in F.P.J          x--x   r-----Z   x-----x  x-----x  x-----K
N.C. personnel (820)                     (164)   (164)      (164)    (164)    (164)
o Refresher courses in clinical F.P.                         x--x
(269)                                                      (269)
- Technical Reference Material
e Creation of 10 libraries                 K--K       K--x
e Strengthen Ref. Lib. ONAPO               K--K       K--K
- Strengthenina  F.P. Education at the
1.C0. Lee                                   K X-- 2 K- K---R  K--K- xK-----K  K--
- Contraceptive Procuremen_tz-                        -    K  XK-----  KR-- K-  XK--X   X----X
- EZulvent CsnsterslDrlnters                 K--K      K--       K- - Z- -KX
- Sismt for Health Centers and
Nosnitals (60)                                      X---K3
- Sne>visiLa                               K- K--    -     K X   XK-----KX XK--K--  XK----X  X--__X
1. EXPANSION AND PRONOTION OF FAMILY
PLAING SERVICES
- Strenathenin  F.P Posts (39)               (9----) 
- Establishamt of 44 new F.P. Posts            x-K    x---x        - ---   i - ---x 
tll,~~~~~~~~~(                         1       (11       (11 )     (11)    .. __ __   ._ __ _



DIPLDNATION SC         II 3Y PROJECT COMPONENT
1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997
B. EXPANSION AND PROMOTION OF FAMILY
PLANNING SERVICES
- Volunteers Proarm:
o Revision of IEC Curricula and
Teaching Materials                     X-1-z
* Trainlilg
a) Refresher IEC Courses National
Trainers (65)                       x--X
b) Refresher IEC for Prefectoral
Trainers (10 per pr6fecture:          X--x
110 - 1 session per region)
C) Refresher IEC courses for
Ccunal Trainers: (3 per
comunes 43S - 2 sessions per          N--x
region)
d) Training of volunteers (17536)          K-K   K-----x  K-----   x-----   X-----x   x-- --x x
8 days/year (split)
IEC/F.E Tecbnology)
* Distribution of Condom  and
Vaninal Foams (1001 of volunteers)                   K--K      --K--   K__---K   K _---x  x---- -x
e C:nmitr Distributions of Pills                                  -K       -      K         K----X
(401 of volunteers)
- Refresher IBC Couraes for F.P
auxiliaries (social workers) (1329)          KL--K     K--K      K--I     K--K
- Seminars workshoDs for omn  ros                                                                              IV
(30 seminars)                                         K ---K    8---2C    X---X     X---X     K--X         0s
- School Proaram (IseO) 
* Needs Assessment Elaboration of           K--Kt                                                           t.J
Curricula                                                                                                  o
(Preschool and Prmary School                                                                               % x
level)



DeP19TATION SCHEDULE BY PROJECT C0OMPONENT
__________________________________________ _  . ..1992  1993    1994      1995     1996      1997
B. EXPNSION AND PROMOTION OF FAMILY
FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
o Printing of Curricula                           -__-
o Training of School Board Directors                x--x
(200)
o Higher Education:
o Needs assessment                         Kt--K
o Printing of curricula                           K--x
o Training of teachers (180)                        X__X
0 CERAIS
(60)      (60)    (60)       (60)      (60)   (60)
- Basic IEC Training (360)                 X--Kz    K--- K   x--x       x--x      X--X    x--Kx
(300)                       (180)
- Refresher IEC Training (480)                                Z--x                         x--x
- Technical Assistance
o Short-Term International                U_sx    ZZ          xx
o Short-Term Local                      a---KX
- Contraceptive Supplies                   K--Kr  IL-----K  K-----K  K__---K  K-----x  X----X
- motorcycles                              --Z       K--K      K--KX    K--X
- Suervision                            K- K---    aK- K  K- x  K- K--    K-----K  K----K
C. RESEARCH. DELOPHENT OF MULTISECTORAL
POPULATION ACTIVITIES
- Technical Assistance
o SIT International consultants
(6 months)                                                  X--K      3r--X



nePLlNWATION SCHEDLE BY PROJECT COMPONENT
1992      1993      1994       1995      1996      1997
C. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT OF MULTISECTORAL
POPUIATIOIZ ACTIVITIES
Equpmnt.
o Printer                                      x
o Software                                     z
- Multisectoral Activities                            I- --x          --- ----2  x-  -- X----2
- Studies
o Maternal Mortality                                 a-
o Migration                                                    x--__x  s----- ]
o Strength of Info. Systems                _-x z-- --z   x--x
D. PROJECT MMAGENEST
- Technical Assistance
o ProJect Advisor (36 MO)                 x--       x-     x  z-     x
o Procurement Specialist                  X-----z  z-----x  z --x  x---           --x   X----     2C
o Accountant                              X-----2   x-----I  I-----2t  s----  x-___    x K----I
- Personnel
o Project Coordinator ONAPO               2-- --   s----x                            ----x -- x   ----X
Training
O Project Management                                x---x
* Procurement (11 Regional and 4
Central staff ONAPO)                                x
* Accounting (Central staff OMAPO) )---Z  x---s
o Financial Management (Central staff    3- --X 
OMAN)   =__              O                                                                                    X
0 



IlPLDBTJSATION SCHEDULE BY PROJECT COMPONENT
1992     1993      1994      1995      1996      1997
D. PROJECT IWI&GDIERT1
- Eaui,ment
v Computer (3)                               x
e Printer (3)   . 
* Software (1)                               x
- Vehicles
4 4z4 x   )                                  K                             K
* Resular ( )                              x                             x
p



GENERAL
- - -   - -- 
1992     1993      1994      1995      1996      1997
Kid-Term Final Survey                                           x                             x
Kid-Term Evaluation                                                   X                           X
Final Evaluation
Annual Report/Work Program                        X        x          x                  x
Updating of Training Master Plan                  x        x          x        x         x
Annual Donor Maeting                               K       X          x        x         x         x
PCN  Report                                                                                   (1998)
-~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
o X3
* 



- 98 -
NEx XIII
Page 1 of 1
ESTIHATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
USSMILLION
IDA FYIQUAR-.ER END          DISBURSEMENT DURING       ACCUMULATED        z
QUARTERS            DISBURSEMENTS
FY92
March 31, 1992                0.5                     0.5          3
June 30, 1992                 0.5                     1.0          3
FY93
September 30, 1992            1.5                    2.5           9
December 31, 1992             1.5                     4.0          9
March 31, 1993                1.5                     5.5          9
June 30, 1993                 1.5                     7.0          9
FY94
September 30, 1993            1.0                    8.0           6
December 31, 1993             1.0                     9.0          6
March 31, 1994                1.0                    10.0          6
June 30, 1994                 1.0                    11.0          6
FY95
September 30, 1994            1.5                    12.5          9
December 31, 1994             1.5                    14.0          9
March 31, 1995                1.0                    15.0          6
June 30, 1995                 1.0                    16.0          6
FY96
September 30, 1995            0.5                    16.5          3
December 31, 1995             0.5                    17.0          3
March 31, 1996                0.5                    17.5          3
June 30, 1996                 0.5                    18.0          3
FY97
September 30, 1996            0.3                    18.3          2
December 31, 1996             0.3                    18.6          2
March 31, 1997                0.3                    18.9           2
June 30, 1997                 0.3                    19.2          2
September 30, 1997            0.3                    19.5          2
December 31, 1997             0.1                    19.6          1



- 99 -
ANNEX XIV
Page 1 of 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
Project Management
Long-term international project advisor -- 3 years (1992-1994).
Long-term local procurement specialist °° 6 years.
Long-term local accountant -- 6 years.
Consulting firm (preparation of bidding documents) -_ 6 P. MOS. (1992-
1997).
SuMoort to IEC Straltea
Short-term international consultants -- 3 P. MOS. (1992-1994).
Short-term local consultants -- 12 P. MOS. (1992-1993)
Program of Volunteers
Short-term international consultants -- 3 P. MOS. (1992-1994).
Research/Develo2ment of Multisectoral Activities
Short-term international consultants -- 6 P. MOS. (1994-1995).



PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997
A. IMPROVING QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY OF
FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES
- Health Center
T teaching materials                     x--x  x-----x
(ONAPO libraries)
* Contraceptives                         x-----x  X-----2C   x-----x  2C-----X  x-----x  K----KI
* Equipment (computer)                   x--x  X----K x-----K  x-----x
o Medical equipment for health
centers                                I-----x  x--K-- x
3. EXPANSION AND PROMOTION OF FP SERVICES
- Equipment and supplies for FP posts
* Medical equipment                      x-----x   x-----x
e Furniture                              x-----X  z-----K
o Contraceptives                            -KK              K-----K  K- K--   K-----K   ----K                  O
* Motorcycles                            K-----K
- IEC
* Material National
Population Week                        x----x  x-----Kn       -----c  X-----X  c-----X  X----K
- Volunteers program
*Incentive equipment                        ---      ----K  x-----x   2s----- K  -----K x----Z
(motorcycles, wheelbarrows,
shovels, bicycles, radios)
C. RESEARCHIDEVELOPMENT OF MULTISECTORAL
POPUIATION ACTIVITIES
* Computer equipment                    K----- 
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                                                                         .
o Equipment                             K- K--- 
* Vehicles                              x-----K  K-----K                                                     0
o Furniture                             K- K---



- 101 -
ANNEX XVI
Page 1 of 1
References
1.   ONAPO: 1990 Annual Work Program
2.   ONAPO: Le problbme d@mographique au Rwanda et le cadre de sa
solution, May 199C.
3.   Habimana Gaudence (ONADO's Director): Etude de cas sur l'6laboration
et l'exdcution des pol:tiques nationales.
4.   BUFMAR:  Annual Report 1989.
5.   The Futures Group: Options for Population Policy, Rwanda, 1988.
6.   The Futures Group: Population and Environment in Rwanda.
7.   May John, Mukamgiz1i Monique, Vekemans Marcel: Family Planning in
Rwanda; Status and Prospects, Studies in Family Planning, 21,1:xx-xx
8    Management SciRnces for Health:  A review of financial management
proCedures for the Rwandan National Population Office (ONAPO).
Dec. 1989
9.   Westinghouse Health System: Contraceptive Prevalence Survey, 1983.
10.  1989 1OH Annual Report.
11.  ONAPOX Le Programme de l'Abagakuraangasa (Volunteer).



R\WANDA
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT                                                                   UGANDA
TAN ZAIN IA
NUMBER OF FAMILY PLANNING POSTS
BY PREFECTURE:
BLACK EXISnNG,
RED NEW
RED NE'0/                        ~~~~~Z A I R E        /:v/                                                              
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                  AARK
PREFECTRE CAP[IALS AND
P~ EGIONAL ONAPO/MINISTRY
OF HEALTH HEADQUARTERS
-   COMMUNE BOUNDARIES
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATiONAL BOUNDARIES
POPULATION DENSFTY
(p--on per KM')
21W        oII   0.1002%
L        o <101 -200
W201 -250
m  251 -320
U    A    S-j ZKENA        CyangugI 
PUANDI
BURUNDI ~ ~   ~             ~           ~            ~           ~         ~          BRUD
TANZLANI
ZAIRE~~~~~~~
n                                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
Wt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NLS  1; |o i5 .0 25C 30                                                                                                 _,



