Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24993-RW
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-22720; IDA-2272 1)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$19.6 MILLION AND A
SUPPLEMENTAL OF US$7.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A
HEALTH AND POPULATION
PROJECT
02/05/2003
Human Development Unit m
Country Department 9
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 2002)
Currency Unit = RwF (Rwanda Franc)
483 RwF = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.32 = SDR 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS                 Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome
CAMERWA              Rwandan Central Drug Procurement and Distribution Agency
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CNLS                 National HIV/AIDS Commission
CRCS                 Rwandan Health Communications Center
CRIS                 Rwandan AIDS Information Center
DCA                  Development Credit Agreement
DHS                  Demographic and Health Survey
ERC                  Emergency Recovery Credit
EPRU                 Economnic Policy and Research Unit
FOSOCOBA             Social Fund for Support of Community Activities
FP                   Family Planning
GOR                  Govenmment of Rwanda
HIPC                 Highly Indebted Poor Countries
HIV                  Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus
IDA                  Intemational Development Association
IEC                  Information Education and Communication
MCH                  Maternal and Child Health
MTP                  Medium-Term Plan
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
ONAPO                National Population Office
OPHAR                Office Pharmaceutique du Rwanda
PMU                  Project Management Unit
PNLS                 National AIDS Program
SDR                  Special Drawing Rights
STDs                 Sexually Transmitted Diseases
SWAP                 Sector Wide Approach
TFR                  Total Fertility Rate
TRAC                 Research and Treatment Center on AIDS
UNFPA                United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNHCR                United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNICEF               United Nations Children's Fund
VCT                  Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO                  World Health Organization
Vice President    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director.    Enmmuel Mbi
Sector Manager:    Laura Frigenti
Task Team Leader:     Minam Sohneidman



RWANDA
HEALTH & POPULATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              12
6. Sustainability                                                                  13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 17
9. Partner Comments                                                                18
10. Additional Information                                                         21
Annex l. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               40
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               41
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               42
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  43
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              44






Project ID: P002237                                    Project Name HEALTH & POPULATION
Team Leader: Miriam Schneidman                         TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type- Core ICR                                     Report Date: February 5, 2003
1. Project Data
Nanme. HEALTH & POPULATION                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-22720;
IDA-22721
Countrv/Department: REPUBLIC OF RWANDA                               Region- Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector. Health (85%); Central government administration
(12%); General education sector (3%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 01/30/1987                             Effective- 08/12/1991       06/04/1992
Appraisal: 09/20/1990                              MTR. 06/01/1995          07/09/1998
Approval: 06/19/1991                            Closing: 06/30/1998         06/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF HEALTHIONAPO
Other Partners: USAID, UNFPA
STAFF               Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo                      Kirn Jaycox
Country Manager.    Emmanuel Mbi                            Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:      Laura Frigenti                         Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:  Miriam Schneidman                      Jacques Baudouy
ICR Primariy Author.  Miriam Schneidrnan
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. UN
Institutional Development Inmpact: N
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance- S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entrv.                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time* Yes
Note: This ICR focuses on achievements in relation to the 1996 amendment, which involved a complete
overhaul of the objectives and content of the initial operation approved in 1991. The 1991-1996 period is
only described briefly throughout the text, as relevant. Thus, the ICR ratings above reflect performance
since 1996. While these ratings reflect the relatively good performance of a restructured project in an
extremely difficult post-conflict environment, it should be noted that implementation deteriorated with the
approval of a supplemental credit, as highlighted in the ratings below.



Restructured Project         Supplemental Credit
IDA-22720                    IDA-22721
Outcome                      Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance            Satisfactorv                 Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance         Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3 1 Original Objective.
The US$19.6 million IDA credit, signed on July 3, 1991, was designed to support the Government
of Rwanda to implement its national population policy with a view to: (i) reducing fertility levels; (ii)
improving maternal and child health; and (iii) integrating demographic dimensions in cross-sectoral
development activities. The operation was one of the main vehicles for supporting the government's 1990
population policy and an essential element of the Bank's lending strategy. The project objectives were
appropriate and timely. It responded to both Borrower and Bank concerns with the rapid rate of
population growth that was impeding economic prospects. While the project objectives were focused
exclusively on population and family planning issues, a parallel IDA operation provided support for health
system development.
3.2 Revised Objective:
To respond to the country's post-war needs the project was completely restructured in 1996. This
involved a change in the project's name, objectives, and activities. As described in the June 1996
amendment letter, the original Population Project was restructured into a Health and Population Project
in order to: (a) support the implementation of the National Health Policy by rehabilitating and strengthening
the health system to establish a solid foundation for consolidating reforms in the areas of operationalization
of health districts, health sector financing, and pharmaceutical policy; (b) strengthen the Government's
capacity to formulate and implement a comprehensive and sustainable strategy of AIDS control on a
national scale; and (c) strengthen the Government's capacity to formulate and carry out a population policy.
The restructured project responded well to the changing situation in Rwanda by giving greater importance
to basic health services and to the growing HIV/AIDS epidemic while de-emphasizing population and
family planning activities. While the revised objectives get high marks on relevance to country conditions,
two issues are worthwhile highlighting with the benefit of hindsight. First, in a difficult post-conflict
environment, it might have been more realistic to set a modest goal of resuming health services rather than
'establishing a solid foundation for consolidating reforms in operationalization of health districts, sector
financing and pharmaceutical policy'. Second, while the amendment package included a set of performance
indicators it did not include explicit targets against which performance can be assessed at project
completion. The bulk of the indicators focused on inputs and the targets for the output indicators remained
to be determined.
In November 2000, a US$7 million supplemental credit was provided to the government. The
principal justification of the supplemental credit was to provide urgently needed funds to relieve the
unexpected burden bome by six districts in the aftermath of the 1994 genocide. The Bank team felt it
would be easier and faster to secure a supplemental credit rather than initiate preparation of a new health
sector investment operation. The objectives of the supplemental credit were to provide continued support
for: (i) AIDS control activities; (ii) supply of pharmaceuticals; (iii) health district activities; and (iv)
-2 -



population activities. The supplemental credit was to serve as a bridge operation pending preparation of a
health project that would be advanced to FY02.
3.3 Original Cornponents
The original project contained three components: (i) improving the quality and efficiency of family
plannning (FP) services through in-service training, intensification of supervision and management
procedures and the provision of contraceptives and FP equipment; (ii) expanding and promoting family
planning services through the strengthening of FP posts, mobilization of community volunteers, and
targeted Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities; and (iii) supporting population
studies and promoting multisectoral activities.
3.4 Revised Conmponents.
The restructured project included four components:
*   The health component aimed to support the implementation of the National Health Policy (44 percent
of total base cost) by: (i) rendering operational six districts in the regions of Cyangugu and Gikongoro,
including strengthening of cost recovery mechanisms; (ii) assisting with the supply and distribution of
essential generic drugs, including the establishment of an autonomous drug supply agency; and (iii)
supporting the development of a national social communication/lEC capacity.
*   The AIDS component (13 percent of total base cost) supported the development and implementation of
the national AIDS control strategy through: (i) restructuring and decentralizing the functions of the
National AIDS Control Program, including setting up a small social fund developed by communities
and NGOs to finance micro-projects; (ii) strengthening the policy role of the National AIDS Control
Program; (iii) restoring the national capacity to carry out epidemiological surveillance of HIV and
STDs; and (iv) developing a national capacity for voluntary counseling and testing.
*   The population component (39 percent of total base cost) aimed to support the development and
implementation of a national population policy by: (a) developing an awareness of the new aspects of
population issues; (b) improving the integration of population education into all levels of the formal
education system; (c) improving understanding of population phenomena in Rwanda; (d) educating
officials at the national level on population issues; and (e) promoting family planning services.
*   A project coordination component (4 percent of total base cost) supported the overall coordination of
the project.
3.5 Qualitv at Ent,y:
Satisfactory Quality at entry is rated as generally satisfactory. Three strengths of the original
project design are worthwhile highlighting. First, the objectives and activities responded well to the
country's needs and to the Borrower's commitment to address population issues. The project was timely
and relevant, to the extent that it built on the 1990 Population Policy, which was heralded as a major
breakthrough in acknowledging the importance of population issues and in setting explicit demographic
targets (i.e. reducing the population growth rate from 3.6 to 2.0 percent by 2000). It also built on a
cost/benefit analysis of the family planning program, carried out by the National Population Office
(ONAPO) with assistance from the Research Triangle Institute, that demonstrated the significant benefits
to be reaped from supporting the national program. Second, the design was comprehensive in nature
addressing both the demand for and the supply of family planning services through a set of mutually
reinforcing investments. Third, project documentation was generally thorough with the Staff Appraisal
- 3 -



Report (SAR) including a comprehensive analysis of sector issues, lessons learned, and major risks.
Against these positive aspects, the project had a number of shortcomings: (i) reliance on a centrally
driven, vertical, service delivery model for the provision of family planning services; while this strategy was
common to other self-standing population operations prepared during this period it represented a missed
opportunity in tenms of promoting the integration of family planning services into the Maternal and Child
Health program; (ii) insufficient attention to the risk of not being able to bring about behavioral change and
to attain the demographic targets; the SAR risk analysis does not mention the potential difficulties of
bringing about behavioral change in a population with a long standing tradition of pronatalist views and
high levels of illiteracy; and (iii) excessively optimistic contraceptive prevalence targets and impact
indicators, which with the benefit of hindsight were not realistic for a six-year period.
The quality at entry for the restructured project is also rated as generally satisfactory. The
restructured project responded well to country conditions and the design of the four components was clearly
linked to the revised project objectives. With the benefit of hindsight, however, some of the objectives
proved to be overly ambitious for a post-conflict setting (e.g. promoting family planning services) and
should have probably been articulated in a more modest fashion. Moreover, the absence of explicit targets
renders the assessment more difficult at project completion.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives and outputs under the restructured Health and Population Project are
rated as moderately satisfactory, considering the exceptionally difficult post-conflict environment in which
the project was carried out (e.g. massive loss of health and other professionals, destruction of
infrastructure, and weakened institutions). The overall deterioration in socio-economic and health
conditions stemming from the genocide is reflected in the sharp rise in infant and under five mortality
during the first half of the 1990s, as can be seen from the figure below. These trends were partially
reversed since the mid 1990s with the large influx of donor assistance, including from the restructured IDA
project. As discussed in the following sections most of the relevant project objectives have been achieved
with the health sector demonstrating remarkable resilience recovering from the effects of the genocide with
a partial reversal of earlier trends.
Infant and Under-Five Mortlity Rates
111985-1990 01991-1994 01995-2000
250-
200 -
150  ,    129, t.7   '.-
50             I    E
0
Infant mortality rate  Under-five mortality
(per 1000 live births)  rate (per 1000 live
births)
-4 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
Background The 1 1-year implementation record can be broken up into three phases:
> Slow start up The original US$19.6 million Population Project, approved in 1991, experienced a slow
start up stemming from both difficulties in adhering to conditions of effectiveness and to unstable country
conditions. The 1994 genocide and subsequent war brought activities to a grinding halt. Hence, by the end
of the first five years less than 10 percent of the original IDA credit was disbursed. The tragic events of the
mid 1990s necessitated a complete overhaul of the project.
> Solid performance in a post-war environment Following the 1996 restructuring, disbursements
picked up quickly with the bulk of the activities effectively carried out during a 4-year period (i.e.
1997-2000), which reflects a well performing project in a difficult post-war environment.
> Downturn in performance The project experienced a downturn in performance following the approval
of a US$7.0 million supplemental credit in November 2000, which stemmed from difficulties in
maintaining a well staffed Project Management Unit; delays in the provision of counterpart funds;
administrative problems and poor internal coordination; and some delays in obtaining non objections. Of
particular concem were the difficulties encountered with a US$3.0 million drug procurement package,
which was nearly declared ineligible for IDA financing immediately prior to credit closing and required an
exceptional retroactive non-objection, since approval was not sought for this large package that required
prior review. Moreover, by project closing only 78 percent of the supplemental credit was disbursed with
roughly US$1.6 million needing to be cancelled. The following sections summnarize the main outputs by
component in relation to the revised objectives of the restructured operation.
Component #1: Supporting the implementation of the National Health Policy With respect to the
implementation of the National Health Policy the project is judged to be, on balance, satisfactory,
particularly when taking into account the difficult post-war context. This rating is based on the fact that
virtually all physical objectives were attained, implementation difficulties experienced are to be expected in
a post-conflict environment, and there was at least a partial reversal in the deterioration of health sector
indicators.
*   The operationalization of the Cyangugu and Gikongoro health districts has been partially
accomplished. With regard to the rehabilitation and equipment of health facility infrastructure the
results are generally good, as the project assisted in a resumption of basic health services. All activities
programmed in 1996 were completed, all equipment was delivered, quality of facilities was generally
acceptable in spite of some shortcomings, and the cost of construction was broadly similar to that of
other facilities in the region. With other donors picking up the cost of rehabilitating health centers, the
project focused on four rural district hospitals (Mibilizi, Gihundwe and Bushenge in Cyangugu and
Kaduha in Gikongoro) and one urban hospital. The project also financed the acquisition of roughly 40
vehicles (ambulances and all terrain jeeps) and 20 motorcycles which strengthened district supervision
capacities.
*   The ICR team found a number of shortcomings in the technical and procurement documents for the
civil works and medical equipment and problems with local firms in the post-war period (e.g. personnel
and equipment problems), which, in turn, led to some deficiencies in the quality of the construction and
the appropriateness of the medical equipment. The Muhima Hospital in Kigali is worthwhile
highlighting as it absorbed roughly three-quarters of project resources spent on civil works. The site
was identified early on to have some major shortcomings but a decision was taken to retain the location
-5-



because of the need to address the growing demand for health care in this area. While the ICR team
found the quality of the construction generally satisfactory the site rendered the construction more
complex and more costly. By project completion some structural shortcomings persisted (e.g. poor
access of ambulances to the surgical block) and a number of aspects remained incomplete (e.g.
construction of a hospital wing with shared rooms). In another case (i.e. Kaduha Hospital) poorly
defined technical specifications resulted in the delivery of equipment that was no longer needed. While
the emergency nature of these investments is understandable, the haste with which this was done may
have neglected important aspects which, with the benefit of hindsight, should have been given more
attention (e.g. need for well defined technical specifications; warantees for equipment; maintenance
plans for vehicles).
*   District capacities were also strengthened in terms of human resources. The project provided trauning
in management of decentralized health programs for about 55 district physicians; and courses on
primary health care and reproductive health for roughly 450 community workers and 1200 traditional
birth attendants. In order to address the serious national shortage of personnel in the post-war period,
the government recruited 12 physicians from neighboring countries which was a good interim solution
to the country's human resources crisis. Nevertheless, by project completion the government was
having difficulties replacing this personnel with national staff.
*   While it is difficult to establish causality between project investments and results it is worth
highlighting overall trends in health care outputs. As the PSRs focused primarily on input indicators,
the ICR team has assembled a consistent set of output and impact indicators from the latest
Demographic and Health Surveys (Annex 1). The results of this analysis shows that Rwanda has
managed to maintain or attain coverages rates which in some cases are higher than those in other
countries in sub-Saharan Africa that have not experienced similar tragedies. According to the 2000
Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), BCG coverage has been maintained at 97 percent since the
mid 1990s, DPT3 is about 86 percent and 76 percent of infants are fully immunized. Moreover, there
are virtually no rich/poor differentials in immunization coverage rates such as are found in numerous
other countries. A similar pattern is found for prenatal care coverage. According to the 2000 DHS,
the proportion of women with access to at least I prenatal consultation dropped slightly but remains at
about 92 percent with minor rich/poor differentials. The proportion of deliveries assisted by a health
professional has risen slighly even though it remains relatively low (31 percent), as Rwandan women
have an increasing preference to deliver with the help of traditional birth attendants (i.e. proportion of
deliveries assisted by birth attendants rose from 15 percent in 1992 to 43 percent in 2000).
* By contrast to trends in preventive services, utilization of curative care has been on a general decline
nationwide, as Rwandans have become increasingly poor (i.e. over 60 percent of the population
remains below the poverty line). The curative consultation rate in project health districts (i.e.
Bushenge, Gihundwe, Kibogora, Mibirizi, Kaduha) followed the national trend, with a consistent
decline from 1998 to 2001. These trends raise concerns with the use of user fees in post conflict
situations, highlighting the need for developing alternative cost financing mechanisms. A pilot
community financing scheme in three health districts (Byumba, Kabgayi, Kabutare), supported under
the Partnership for Health Sector Reforn, has demonstrated initial promising results in raising
utilization of curative care (see figure below) through the use of an innovative risk pooling mechanism.
It is encouraging that the Ministry of Health is exploring possibilities of scaling up these pre-payment
schemes.
-6-



Curative consultaton rate In health centers (HC), by Disbict
(Source: Health Information System SIS, MOH)
| SIS 1998 O SIS 1999 O SIS 2000 O SIS 2Do1
0.7     -.
0.6 v0'v
0.5                                                   ____s ?'. ,,->;.S,,  , ,.i. ,,t
04 'tX-.ff-,-* X. 
.,'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0.3
C.)    X       11-- 11|- 111                 1E             E 11                         S
0.1                          III
BusLhwre  Ghiudwe   16bogora   Mibr      Kaduha    ByrTba    Kabgayi  Kabutare  RNANf
Districts
The essential drug sub-component is considered highly satisfactory. The transformation of OPHAR (
Office Pharmaceutique du Rwanda) into an independent non-profit national drug procurement and
distribution agency (CAMERWA) able to sell drugs to the public system can be considered as the
major accomplishment of this project. Through 1999 the project assisted in funding initial drug stocks
for all health districts and in providing staff training in management, procurement and operational
support. By January 2000 CAMERWA was established as an autonomous agency with a tripartite
body comprising of representatives of government, donors and beneficiaries. During the past 2.5 years
CAMERWA has acquired solid capacities in the procurement and distribution of essential, generic
drugs which is reflected in the relatively low cost of these drugs, as can be seen from the figure below.
The ICR mission found that the availability of low cost, high quality, essential drugs in peripheral
health facilities is good even though there are continuing concerns with distribution and logistics
management and financial access.
-7 -



Relative Unit Priices for Select
Essential Drugs
c                           [3~~~~~~~~~ Kipharma
0.5
.   ,'-  I,,     ,  '  I   :
1   2   3   4    5   6   7
Product
*   In contrast to the excellent results attained by CAMERWA, there was only modest progress in
strengthening national capacities to assure quality control of pharmaceuticals. The Pharmacy
Directorate of the Ministry of Health benefitted from project support which enabled the provision of
staff training in management of pharmaceuticals, and acquisition of a vehicle to strengthen supervision
and control. The main outputs included the production of inspection and drug management manuals
and legal texts on quality control. Nevertheless, the legal texts remain to be approved and the manuals
need to be widely distributed.
*   The social communication/IEC sub-component is rated satisfactory in terms of accomplishment of
physical objectives and level of effort. As specified in the 1996 amendment, the establishment of a
national social communication/IEC capability was expected to strengthen the delivery of LEC messages
at the district level. To this end, the project provided financial support to rehabilitate and equip the
facility accommodating the Rwandese Health Communication Center (CRCS) that was damaged
during the war. The goal was to provide technical and financial support so that the center could
become self sufficient within two years. To this end, the project financed training abroad (i.e. U.S.,
France, Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania) in the use of the graphic and audio-visual equipment; and
marketing, management and LEC strategies and funded the acquisition of equipment. The volume of
activity has doubled from 2000 to 2001 (i.e. from about RwF 30 Million to about RwF 64 Million).
According to the management of the center the following factors have impeded its performance: (i) high
start up costs as technicians needed to be recruited and trained and equipment had to be purchased; and
(ii) lack of competitiveness with local private sector firms providing similar services. In spite of the
excellent efforts made by management and staff, the CRCS has not yet succeeded in becoming self
sufficient, raising concerns over sustainability that are discussed in section 6.
Component #2: Supporting the development and implementation of the national AIDS control
strategy With respect to the implementation of the national AIDS control strategy, performance is
- 8-



considered satisfactory. The project provided technical and financial support to strengthen institutional
capacities of the national AIDS Control Program with the following specific results:
*   The government took an important step forward by restructuring the program with the CNLS
established as its coordinating body while the TRAC was created under the Ministry of Health to
address the medical and research aspects of the epidemic. Plans were prepared to establish provincial
(CPLS) and district (CDLS) committees to empower local and regional authorities to assume a greater
role in the implementation of the program. These institutional reforms were relevant and timely,
helping to pave the way for more sustained effort under the forthcoming MAP operation.
*   The experience with a social fund mechanism for channeling funds to NGOs was small but promising,
generating rich lessons for the design of the Rwanda MAP. A small social fund (Fonds Social d'Appui
aux Initiatives Communautaires, FOSOCOBA) was established in 1997 to provide grants to
community groups working on HIV/AIDS. The fund was successfully managed by the PNLS,
providing approximately RwF26.5 million (US$80,000 equivalent) during 1998-99. Project support
was typically in the RwF 3-4 million range with the largest being RwF 7.3 million. In total, 13
proposals were approved out of a total of nearly 40 received. Grants were made to community
associations (e.g. women's groups, groups working with AIDS widows and orphans, religious groups)
for the funding of a range of activities (e.g. outreach to youth; income-generating activities for
orphans/widows). Several projects involved partnerships with larger groups (e.g. CARITAS,
Episcopal Diocese of Shogwe, PSI). The coordinator of the fund followed up with grantees and
reported that most had achieved their stated objectives and that in most cases activities initiated with
grant funds were sustained. This modest experience highlights the need for building capacities amongst
these organizations in order to expand their ability to scale up promising approaches. The
management/review mechanism and procedural manual are serving to inspire the design of
community-based activities under the Rwanda MAP.
*   With regard to the objective of strengthening the policy role of the national AIDS program, the
performance can be judged as solid. The restructured CNLS, set up in the President's office, has begun
playing a pivotal role in the fight against AIDS, demonstrating important leadership. The major
accomplishments which can be cited include: elaborating the HIV/AIDS 2002-06 strategic plan,
mounting a strong national consensus building process, improving mobilization of community leaders,
grass roots organizations and civil society through promotional activities, and spearheading a
multi-sectoral approach which has involved an increase in public sector and civil society involvement in
the fight against the epidemic (e.g. youth, religious organizations, army, mass media). Awareness
raising activities appear to have produced good results, as reported knowledge levels of HIV/AIDS
were found to be over 99 percent with no major gender or geographical differences (2000 Demographic
and Health Survey). Knowledge of specific means of avoiding HIV/AIDS is also high for both males
and females. Given the high illiteracy rates in Rwanda, these knowledge levels are quite impressive,
suggesting that national efforts to raise awareness have been effective. As in other countries, the main
challenge at this stage is to translate these knowledge levels into behavior change. It is also worth
highlighting the promising results in terms of raising condom use and STD screening and treatment in
the defense ministry which was one of the key beneficiaries of this project. Finally, the strong
leadership at the highest political levels and the President's personal involvement are factors which
augur well for the future of the program.
*   The government team should also be commended for the excellent progress made in restoring national
epidemiological HIV/AIDS surveillance capacities, which had been interrupted as a result of the war.
In order to provide rapid, up to date information on the evolution of the epidemic, the project provided
-9-



technical and financial support to facilitate the resumption of activities at 18 sentinel surveillance sites
nationwide.
o   The project supported the establishment of one of the first voluntary counseling and testing centers in
the country, which has served as a model for the network of VCT centers being established nationwide
with funding from the Global Fund. The CRIS responded to a growing demand for VCT services as
knowledge and awareness has gradually improved in recent years and more Rwandans are now keen to
be tested. Even though the center has been performing well with a high attendance rate, by project
closing it remained highly dependent on extemal funding with continuing financing and staffing
constraints.
Component #3: Supporting the development and implementation of a national population policy
With respect to the population component the government should get high marks for its excellent efforts in
an extremely difficult post-genocide environment and for accomplishing most of the activities under this
component, hence a sadsfaceory rating. Given the resurgence of pronatalist views in Rwanda and the
strong desire to replace those lost in the genocide, the government appropriately emphasized the need to
develop a new national population policy. At the time of the 1996 restructuring both the Bank and
Borrower acknowledged the limitations of what could be accomplished in the post-conflict environment
Since the restructuring, progress has been slow but steady. As noted below, ONAPO has made a concerted
effort to get population issues back on the national agenda with good progress in terms of raising
awareness, integrating population education in school curriculum, and educating public officials. By
contrast, the post-genocide environment has made it extremely difficult to re-establish family planning
services as demand continues to be sluggish. The key accomplishments, problems encountered and results
attained are sunmmarized below.
e   With regard to the goal of raising awareness of new aspects of population issues for community
leaders, the project supported roughly 225 debates and approximately 600 education skits at the
community level. The project also funded knowledge and awareness raising activities for about 25 line
ministries, some 75 NGOs, 60 associations and female groups; 50 journalists; 70 cooperatives; and
225 rural development workers. In addition, the key personnel of ONAPO were trained abroad.
o   The project gets high marks in terms of the integration of population education into all levels of the
formal education system. Some 4,400 primary and 450 secondary school teachers were trained in these
subjects based on a revised curriculum.
o   In terms of improving understanding of population phenomena in Rwanda, the project aimed to support
a number of studies in order to have a greater appreciation of the changing attitudes and beliefs
towards birth and contraception and the evolving aspects of the population phenomenon. According to
the 2000 DHS, knowledge of contraceptive methods has remained very high (i.e. over 97 percent)
irrespective of level of education or place of residence, suggesting that the program was effective in
awareness raising.
o   On the policy reform side, the government has taken the initial steps in revising the national population
policy to reorient ONAPO's mandate from a provider of family planning services to a premiere
research institute focused on population and reproductive health issues. The new population policy
proposes that ONAPO take the lead on policy, planning and research. This policy document is under
discussion and remains to be finalized.
* The Ministry of Health has met with little success in trying to re-establish family planning services in
an environrent where couples are keen to replace those lost in the genocide. The Ministry established
a reproductive health unit and elaborated a sound national Reproductive Health Strategy. The strategy
provides a comprehensive framework for service delivery and good guidance on how to link
reproductive health, HIV/AIDS and other cross-cutting issues that affect reproductive health outcomes.
-10-



A modest community based distribution scheme was initiated at three sites with roughly 4,900 pills and
14,000 condoms distributed through this network. The shift from ONAPO to the Ministry of Health
appears to have resulted in declining support for family planning at the district level, as health
personnel are dealing with other priority health needs. Authorities estimate that only 9 percent of
health facilities have a contraceptive stock and 36 percent of facilities follow up women on a regular
basis. The modest gains in improving access to family planning services attained prior to the genocide
have been severely eroded. As can be seen from the figure below, the CPR (modem methods only) has
dropped to a meager 3 percent by 2000 with the use of traditional methods stagnating at about 5
percent.
Rwanda: Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
(Source: Demographic Health Survey)
16                   IN MDHS 1992 *DHS 2000
1 4,                                                       -
14    t      -                .    i            .X.)t.t.z.st. . rvsW.t 1: '
' S .  - .1C   *. .l C  X i                    ¼      C * ..1 5 .... +
12
0 10  <½ *' X t,. t-.kz 6 s u'Id  i At-st  l_.-'
6  42  S.. ,                                              ti , *
Modern Methods    Traditional Methods   All Methods
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return.
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of r eturn.
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Negligible The institutional. development impact of th.is project is considered negligible. The most
important institv.tional. achievement has been the establishment of an effective national essential drug
program. As noted above, CAMERWA has been functioning as an efficient, autonomous, non-profit
organization, providing a good supply of essential drugs in a timely fashion to the public sector. The
national response to HIV/AIDS has also been strengthened substantially. TRAC is performing well within
the Ministry of Health with good results in restoring national epidemiological surveillance capacities and in
carrying out medical research. The CNLS has been established in the President's office to provide greater
visibility to the national program and is now spearheading the preparation of the Rwanda MAP. The CRIS
- 1 1 -



operated as one of a few VCT centers in the country until very recently and has served as a model for the
design of a new network of VCT centers. Institutional capacities of the Ministry of Health have also been
strengthened with the training of a large number of physicians, nurses, and community outreach workers.
While it is difficult to ascertain the full impact of this training it is clear that institutional capacities which
had been decimated during the genocide have been partially restored. In spite of these efforts to strengthen
capacities the institutional development impact is considered negligible overall, particularly as there are
major concerns over the sustainability of the project investments (as discussed in following sections).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or inplementing agency:
The 1994 genocide and subsequent war had ravaging effects on the country with massive loss of
human lives and destruction of health facility infirastructure. Even though numbers are not available, it is
believed that the health sector was particularly hard hit as personnel either fled the country or were killed.
A large number of health facilities were damaged and/or pillaged during the hostilities of the 1 990s and
were in need of rehabilitation. Moreover, during the post-war period, the Project Management Unit was
highly dependent on the local construction market which also suffered from personnnel shortages and
equipment problems.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Three factors subject to government control impeded the execution of the project. Eirt difficulties
in complying with the conditions of effectiveness which resulted in nearly a one-year delay in declaring the
original IDA credit effective. Second, problems with the timely availability of counterpart funds as the
government experienced financial difficulties. This implied that the Development Credit Agreement needed
to be amended on several occasions to allow for a greater share of IDA financing of the total project cost.
With the benefit of hindsight, perhaps the Bank should have granted more generous co-financing
arrangements during the 1996 restructuring to take into account the country's precarious financial situation
in the post-war period. Third. difficulties in maintaining a well-staffed Project Management Unit, which
was a serious problem since the approval of the supplemental credit in 2000. The persistence of the
Minister of Health to nominate a project manager who did not meet the necessary qualifications for IDA
approval proved to be a major stumbling block. This combined with protracted discussions over salaries
ultimately resulted in a situation whereby the project was run with only skeletral staff during the last couple
years, which had serious consequences on the performance of the unit.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The performance of the Project Management Unit was variable throughout the life of the project.
While most of the problems experienced are understandable in a post-conflict environment a greater effort
should have been made by the Ministry of Health to maintain a well staffed, competent group
knowledgeable in Bank procedures. Of particular concern were the serious difficulties encountered in
adhering to IDA procurement procedures and guidelines following the approval of the supplemental credit.
A case in point relates to the procurement of US$3.0 million of drugs that did not follow IDA procurement
procedures and which ultimately necessitated an exceptional, retroactive non objection in order to permit
financing under the project.
5.4 Costs and financing:
While the civil works activities absorbed a relatively modest proportion of both the original credit
- 12 -



and the supplemental credit (roughly over 8 percent) there was a substantial rise in costs (i.e. roughly 230
percent in relation to the 1996 restructuring). These cost increases stemmed from a combination of factors,
including under-estimation of the initial cost of the Muhima Hospital, delays in start up, and an increase in
the cost of materials. Moreover, the relatively low initial allocation of the special account prevented quick
replenishments, which in turn contributed to cost overruns. The size of the special account was raised from
US$0.5 million in 1996 to US$1.0 million in 1998. Finally, it should be noted that in spite of problems
with counterpart funding, following the resumption of project activities, the government made a concerted
effort to respect its obligations to the firms involved in the civil works.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is rated as unlikely unless certain measures are taken as discussed in
the next section. The modest gains attained since the mid 1 990s remain fragile and run the risk of being
eroded in the absence of sustained external financial support. While the health system has shown
remarkable resilience in recovering from the effects of the genocide, many constraints persist, raising
concerns over the sustainability of project activities. The HIV/AIDS epidemic is having an erosive effect
that compounds the human resource losses from the genocide. Population and family planning are still
delicate issues in this post-genocide society where pronatalist views dominate. Institutional development
has been negligible with continuing human resources shortages. Institutions such as CRCS and CRIS
remain dependent on external support to continue and expand their activities. Moreover, the heavy
emphasis on HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases (malaria and TB) runs the risk of diverting attention
from broader health systems development. Finally, the government's financial difficulties have resulted in
occasional delays in meeting even the modest counterpart funding requirements during the life of the project
and in replacing the expatriate personnel recruited under the project with Rwandans at project completion,
raising additional concems with regard to the operation of the facilities supported under the project
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
With the completion of the IDA-funded Health and Population Project the government has not yet
developed a clear roadmap for sustaining the investments initiated under this operation and for addressing
broader systemic problems affecting health sector performance. While the Ministry of Health hired a
consultant to prepare a follow-up IDA health operation there was little discussion or follow up of the
recommendations of this report. Likewise, there was little follow-up of the recommendations of the HERA
(Health Research for Action) study on costs and financing, which addressed some of key issues affecting
the Rwandan health system. The Ministry of Health has expressed concerns that funding for HIV/AIDS
runs the risk of draining resources from important health priorities, as donor funding for health appears to
be declining. The ICR team agrees that many of the modest gains attained to date remain precarious.
Moreover, as in other post-conflict countries, Rwanda has a long way to go towards the attainment of the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The figure below illustrates the trends in the Infant Mortality
Rate (IMR) during the previous decade and the challenges lying ahead in terms of attaining these goals by
2015. While the IMR has progressed back toward pre-conflict levels, the maternal mortality ratio (MIvIR)
is still high (i.e. around 1000) by any standard. This is not surprising, as the MMR is more dependent on a
continuum of health system performance measures. For example, effective management of obstetric
emergencies requires recognition and action to seek care by households and birth attendants, access to
transport, and timely/effective care and treatment at the referral facility. In essence, it requires a well
functioning outreach effort and a strong health system response. In order to assist Rwanda to move
towards the goal of attaining the MDGs and to address systemic issues there is a need for long-term,
- 13-



sustained financial and technical support from both IDA and other development partners.
Rwanda Trends In Infant Mottilty, 19900-9
with proJ.cton  to 2016
140
120            7-l
100  -L               qz 
1990   1999  13ddnws  112dedhw  2B3dedne
The Bank needs to consider a two-prong approach for sustained support to the health sector: (i)
preparing a follow up IDA operation to support health systems development and attainment of the MDGs;
and (ii) addressing policy and institutional reforms affecting health sector performance through the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper and the proposed Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit.
IDA Health Sector Support: A follow-up IDA health sector operation would assist the government
to continue developing its decentralized health system to complement support provided by other
development partners. There is a clear commitment and a growing capacity to implement the district
model. Priority areas for investment include management, procurement and logistics systems, health
education, health information systems, health financing, and human resources. Human resources are a
particularly critical soft spot in Rwanda's capacity to sustain efforts to effectively scale up health
programs. Traditional birth attendants and the animateur system developed under the Health and
Population Project are a valuable resource at the community level, but need to be strengthened and
complemented by more trained nurses and midwives. While the policy frameworks for HIV/AIDS and
reproductive health are well designed, capacity to implement them depends on the availability and effective
deployment of appropriately skilled health providers at all levels of the health system. Strengthening of
capacity through training, effective incentives and a strategic approach to the deployment of human
resources need to be urgently continued. There is also a need to scale up the successful piloting of the
mutuelle scheme to assist households to improve their financial access to health services through this risk
pooling mechanism that has yielded good initial results.
PRSPIPRSCIHIPC Support. The PRSP/PRSC offer an opportunity to tackle issues which can not
be easily addressed in a health sector operation, such as policies related to the deployment, recruitment and
remuneration of health sector personnel. Annual review of the government's expenditure program will also
offer opportunities to engage authorities in discussions over the efficiency and equity of health sector
spending. The HIPC initiative provides a further opportunity to reorient resources towards priority health
sector investments.
- 14 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lendinig:
The Bank performed in a generally satisfactory manner during the identification, preparation and
appraisal of the original project. As noted in previous sections, the Bank responded in a timely fashion to
the govermment's 1990 Population Policy which was viewed as a major breakthrough in acknowledging
population issues and setting explicit demographic targets. The project was generally well designed and the
documentation was thorough. With the benefit of hindsight, there was excessive reliance on a centrally
driven, vertical, service delivery model and insufficient attention to the risk of not being able to bring about
behavioral change and to attain the demographic targets.
7.2 Supervision.
The Bank team should get high marks for the 1996 restructuring, following the genocide and war,
and for its intensive supervision efforts during the next four years. The Bank responded quickly and
effectively to the Borrower's post conflict needs, processing a series of amendments to address the
emergency rehabilitation needs and the government's deteriorating financial situation. In total, there were 8
amendments to the Development Credit Agreement, including the major restructuring of 1996 and the 2000
supplemental credit. Many of the amendments allowed for IDA to fund a larger share of total expenditures
and for three extensions of the closing date (1.5 year extension accorded in September 1997; 1-year
extension provided in June 1999; and 1.5 years provided in November 2000 with the supplemental credit).
As noted earlier, it might have been better to include a larger percentage of IDA financing up front (i.e.
1996 restructuring) rather than making periodic revisions.
Supervision was generally strong and missions were well staffed. There was remarkable continuity
on the Bank side with a couple of task team leaders involved in supervision for the bulk of the project
years. On average, there were two missions annually throughout the life of the project. The quality of
advice and supervision was generally good in spite of some lapses. For example, the restructuring mission
and subsequent supervision missions did not benefit from the services of an architect, which was reflected
in the lack of technical details in the 1996 amendment and in supervision reports. The restructuring
mission also did not carry out a financial analysis of the feasibility of establishing the CRCS as an
autonomous public sector health communication center, which might have highlighted concerns which
emerged in later years about the viability of this center. Finally, even though the 1996 restructuring
involved the selection of a set of performance indicators, most focused on inputs and not on outputs or
outcomes. With the benefit of hindsight it might have been better to have a shorter, strategic list of
indicators, focusing on indicators which are readily available.
A Quality Enhancement Review (QER) carried out in January 2001 commended the Bank team for
its perseverance under difficult conditions as well as for its entrepreneurial approach to ensuring the full
use of the proceeds of the original credit. Overall, the panel concluded that the project had been
satisfactorily supervised, with a focus on resolving the many challenges to successful implementation
through creative and timely use of restructuring and willingness to adjust project focus in response to the
changing epidemiological and political conditions. At the same time, the panel raised concerns with the
multiple extensions and ultimate supplementation of the original project design, suggesting it might have
been more efficient to pursue a dialogue through a program of analytic work and new lending rather than
through continued reshaping of the original project. The panel also raised concerns with the excessive
- 15 -



focus on recording the number of particular activities or inputs employed rather than the effects of these
investments.
Supervision and technical support under the supplemental credit fell somewhat short of
expectations and is rated as unsatisfactory. While the Bank tearn rightly stood its ground in preventing the
nomination of staff who did not meet Bank standards it proved unable to resolve the impasse that emerged.
With the benefit of hindsight, the Bank team probably missed an opportunity to take strong corrective
action (e.g. suspend disbursements). Moreover, even though implementation deteriorated during the last
1.5 years, performance remained rated as satisfactory, with neither the staff nor management picking up the
potential disconnect between the ratings and results. Finally, even though the supplemental credit was to
serve as a bridge operation, the Bank failed to allocate resources for its preparation and to foster a dialogue
with the Ministry of Health on future needs of the health sector, leaving a gap between the completion of
one project and the start up of the next operation. By project closing the country's overall precarious debt
sustainability situation (stemming from a deterioration in export commodity prices) may require a
contraction in external borrowing, including IDA lending, as outlined in the November 21, 2002 Country
Assistance Strategy. Nevertheless, IDA expects to continue providing support for the health sector through
the Poverty Strategy Reduction Credit.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory for the restructured project. Unsatisfactory for the supplemental credit, as noted above.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performned in a satisfactory manner during the preparation of the original Population
Project which benefitted from strong ownership and built on the government's recently issued population
policy. During the 1996 restructuring the borrower worked closely with the Bank team to design an
operation which responded to country needs.
7.5 Government implenientation performance:
Given the difficult post-conflict environment the ICR mnission found that the Borrower's
performance was generally satisfactory. With regard to the civil works, the evaluation mission found that
all activities programmed in 1996 were completed; all equipment was delivered to each facility; quality of
the facilities was generally acceptable in spite of some shortcomings; and the cost of construction was
broadly similar to that of other facilities in the region, in spite of cost overruns. In hindsight, more
attention should have been given to the preparation of technical specifications, enhanced coordination
between rehabilitation/construction and equipment installation, and to introduction of a maintenance system
for newly purchased equipment and vehicles.
Government performance under the supplemental credit is rated as exceptionally poor with serious
consequences in terms of implementation, results and staff morale. The government should have taken
greater care and responsibility to ensure that adequate management, procurement and financial
management capacities were maintained following approval of the supplemental credit. The deterioration
in implementation with the supplemental credit resulted in a missed opportunity to use the last couple years
of this project to draw lessons and to prepare a follow-up operation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
- 16 -



The performrance of the implementing agency was patchy. The Project Management Unit
performed exceptionally well during the first 4 years following the 1996 restructuring and experienced a
downturn subsequently with serious staffing problems. In spite of the excellent efforts made by the
remaining staff it proved difficult to run a unit with skeletal staff. As discussed in other sections these
staffing problems had negative ramifications on project performance.
7.7 Overall Borrowverpeiformance:
Satisfactory for the restructured project. Unsatisfactory for the supplemental credit for the
reasons described above.
8. Lessons Learned
The key lessons learned from the Health and Population Project can be summarized as follows:
*   With the benefit of hindsight, the population control rationale in the original project design had a
narrow focus. Though Rwanda suffered from population pressures, a people-centered health and
welfare approach would have been more appropriate and effective in bringing about behavioral change.
Rwandan authorities are aware of this and are rethinling messages about family planning based on its
contribution to the better health and welfare of mothers and their children rather than for macro
demographic goals. The comprehensive approach which is currently being adapted at the policy level
in Rwanda provides an excellent framework for a holistic approach. The IDA-funded HIV/AIDS
Multi-Sectoral Project (MAP) will provide opportunities for supporting activities which will benefit
both the national HIV/AIDS and reproductive health programs.
* While the restructuring of the project addressed important issues that Rwanda faced during the
period of emergency reconstruction a greater attention should have probably been given to
demand-side issues. As in other countries in the region, there appears to have been insufficient
attention given to the population's ability to pay for health services. While in the immediate post-war
period (1994/95) health care was provided largely free with the support of humanitarian organizations,
cost recovery measures which have been in effect since the mid 1970s were subsequently enforced,
with an adverse effect on health care utilization. This suggests the need for complementing capital
investments with measures to strengthen ability to pay. As mentioned in previous sections, health
districts which put in place effective community financing schemes (mutuelles) experienced an increase
in utilization of health services, highlighting the importance of complementing capital investments with
demand-side measures.
*   Public-sector communication units are generally better suited to planning and overseeing
communication activities rather than producing materials in house. Drawing from similar
experiences in other countries, setting up production capacity in the public sector generally turns out to
be costly and difficult to sustain, suggesting that it may be more cost effective to contract production of
these materials to the private sector.
*   The relatively small but successful experience with the socialfund managed by the PLNSfor
channeling funds for HIVIAIDS activities to community groups has generated rich lessons for the
design of the Rwanda MAP. This experience has demonstrated the potentially important role which
community associations can play and the types of modalities which can be used for channeling funds to
- 17 -



these groups. It has also highlighted the need to build capacities amongst these organizations in order
to expand and scale up promising approaches.
*   In order to ensure a sustained development of the health system in Rwanda the issue of human
resources needs to be addressed more comprehensively. The massive brain drain experienced
following the tragic events of the 1990s, combined with the AIDS epidemic, have exacerbated
Rwanda's human resources problems. Thus, human resource deficits remain a serious obstacle to
health sector performance. While the project provided support for staffing some health centers, a more
systematic effort to address human resources may have been warranted. Particular attention needs to
be given to rebuilding capacities, replacing the personnel recruited on a temporary basis, and
developing incentives for staff to be deployed to under-served areas.
* The relatively poor experience with the supplemental credit highlights the importance of maintaining
a strong project management unit with staff who are qualified and knowledgeable with Bank
procedures and guidelines. Staff need to be recruited on a competitive basis using transparent
procedures to ensure the best candidates are selected; periodic trainining and re-training on Bank
procedures must be provided; and streamlined procedures need to be adapted in order to faciltate
internal approval. Interference in staff selection needs to be avoided as it has a high cost. In the case
of this project, the problems experienced prevented the Ministry of Health from taling advantage of the
supplemental credit for preparing a follow-up health sector investment For the Bank, these difficulties
highlight the importance of taling strong corrective action when things are not going well. Another
important lesson for the Bank is that it may sometimes be more efficient to clean the slate and prepare
a new operation rather than request a supplemental credit.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implenmenting agency:
COMMENTS ON THE FINAL DRAFT OF ICR FOR THE HEALTH AND POPULATION
PROJECT
Our comments focus on the following areas of the ICR, with specific reference to the assessment of
performance of the supplemental credit:
Areas include the following:
Overall document on ICR document
Major factors affecting implementation outcome (chap. 5)
Sustainability (chap. 6)
Overall performance of supplementary credit
Borrower performance and;
Lessons learned
Overall comment on ICR document
Generally, we do appreciate the ICR, as it objectively highlights the major events of project and draws
lessons learned which will help the GOR to learn from the mistakes in order to improve future performance.
- 18 -



Major factors affecting implementation outcome
Our attention here is drawn on the following comments highlighted by the report on which we generally
share the same opinion. These include that there are factors outside government implementation agency's
control which impeded the agency's performance. These include the effects of Genocide on the availability
of the health sector personnel and destruction of health sector infrastructure. We do share the same view on
this and there are already strategies to address this in particular the human resource issue. A case in point
is that the government has of recent established a human resource development.
With regard to factors subject to government control that have impeded project performance, we do agree
with the report that there were difficulties at some point particularly in complying with the conditions of
effectiveness which resulted in a nearly one year delay in declaring original IDA credit effective. To
address this problem however, the government has established a Central Bureau of Public investments and
External financing (CEPEX) to improve disbursement and make a follow up for proper utilization of
project's resources. These and other government efforts will in the long run improve project performance.
As regards to timely availability of counterpart fund, we do appreciate that the bank recognizes the fact
that the government was experiencing financial difficulties at the time. We would like to point out that the
GOR has made payments of counterpart funds for all projects a top priority with effect from the budget
year 2003.
According to the ICR, another factor that is identified as having impeded performance is non adherence to
IDA procurement procedures. An example that is cited is the procurement of drugs by CAMERWA worth
US$3.0 millions. This is a fact and we do appreciate that the Bank accepted the government's explanation
that there was an urgency for the drugs in the health centers. This was however not due to incompetence of
the project staff but rather to the urgency circumstances to quickly acquire the drugs.
Sustainability of the project achievements
In as far as sustainability of the achievements is concerned, we do agree with the ICR that many of the
modest gains attained by the project to date, remain precarious. It is on this basis that the ministry of
Health has prepared a proposal for Population and Health Project II which is meant to save the
achievements of PSPI that otherwise indeed risk erosion if no appropriate measures are taken after the
closure of PSPI.
Overall performance of the supplementary credit
Implementing agency:
The report generally indicates that performance of this extension credit was unsatisfactory. We do not
share the same opinion on this. The report goes further to say that the implementing agency was generally
to blame for the poor performance of the supplementary credit. This is strongly supported by chap. 5 para.
5.2, where it is said that: there was difficulty in maintaining a well staffed project management unit. This is
further supported by chap. 7 para 7.6. which says that: inspite of the excellent efforts made by the
remaining staff, it proved difficult to run a unit with a skeletal staff. This is further strengthened by chap. 5
para 5.2 where it is mentioned as the third problem affecting performance that: the minister persistently
nominated a project coordinator who did no meet the required qualification and this became a stumbling
block leading to poor performance. We strongly disagree with this view. Our opinion here is as follows:
- 19 -



(i)    Difficulties to recruit project staff, which lead to the so-called "skeletal staff' was mainly due to
unnecessary delays to receive non-objection from the World Bank. This caused abandoning of the project
by some highly qualified staff who had shown interest to join the project.
(ii)   Secondly, the coordinator that was appointed by the minister of health was qualified. However,
given the skeletal staff that was running the project the persistent refusal by the bank to approve the
coordinator, couple with with the bank's decline to provide supervision, definitely adversely affected the
performance of the management unit.
Borrower performance
Much as we do agree that there were some problems in procurement procedures and staffing, we disagree
with the report that government performance was exceptionally poor. Based on the fact that despite all the
above mentioned difficulties encountered, disbursement for the supplementary credit was over 75% and to a
great extent activities were implemented as planned, the performance can indeed not be assessed as
exceptionally poor.
Lessons learned
We do share the same opinion on lessons learned. We do appreciate them and we will have them
incorporated in the design and implementation of project that will follow.
Received at the World Bank Washington D.C. on January 28, 2003.
(b) Cofinanciers
UNFPA, Dirk Jena, Resident Representative
Overall, the country has made progress in the formulation of a new population policy which is
truly multidisciplinary and has a better coordination structure in place in respect of HIV/AIDS. In respect
of quality of RH service and family planning much still remains to be realised. The lessons leamed chapter
captures quite well the reality, but we may need to add that more exchange of information and
complementarity with other donor-supported programmes would need to be ensured in order to generate a
cost-effective and lasting impact. In fact, there is a need for better coordination and time-efficient exchange
of information in order to avoid overlap and duplicate funding. We have, for example, also heavily
invested in the new population policy. I therefore much appreciate your e-mail and the recent consultations
under the MAP as this will certainly help to provide the necessary information on which resources should
be used for doing what. I hope that this short feedback is of any help. The most important, however, is
that we continue to consult and try to identify some priorities around which we would then be able to build
the necessary synergies.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
- 20-



10. Additional Information
The ICR team was led by Miriam Schneidman (Senior Health Specialist and Task Team Leader). The
team included the following specialists:
*   Toni Kayonga, Operations Officer
*   Prosper Nindorera, Procurement Specialist
*   Pia Schneider, Economist, Consultant
*   Souleyman Kanon, Public Health Specialist, Consultant
*   Daniel Dupety, Architect, Consultant
*   Anne Anglio, Language Program Assistant
The team also benefitted from inputs and ideas from staff/consultants working on the preparation of the
follow-up HIV/AIDS Multi-sectoral Project:
*   Sheila Dutta, Health Specialist, ACT Africa
*   Tom Merrick, Reproductive Health Specialist, Consultant
-21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator         1985-1990   1991-1994  1995-2000          Comments                 Source
Infant Mortality Rate       86         129         107     Both infant and under-5 mortality  DHS
Under-5 Mortality Rate     141        218          196     rose during the mid-I 990s and have
(per 1000 live births)                                     declined since then.
Maternal Mortality Ratio   611        1611         1071    This indicator remains high by any  DHS
(per 100,000 live births)                                  standard and reflects systemic
problems in the health system.
Life Expectancy at Birth               46           40     HIV/AIDS has erased earlier gains.  UN Pop
(years)                                                                                   Div.
Contraceptive Prevalence    1.0        9.0          3.0    Genocide/war experience reversed  DHS
Rate,                                                      earlier trend in family planning use.
modern methods (%)
Total Fertility Rate                   6.2          5.8    Most of the decline can be attributed DHS
to decreases in proportion married
and in unions.
Adult HIV Prevalence Rate                         11.2%                                   UNAIDS
(%)
Immunization Coverage                                      Immunization coverage was      DHS
BCG (%)                               97.0         97.0    maintained for BCG, dipped for
DPT3 (%)                              91.2         86.0     DPT3, but declined overall (fully
Fully immunized                       87.2         76.0    immunized) since the mid 1990s.
Nevertheless, it should be noted that
Rwanda still has maintained
coverage rates which are higher than
many countries in sub-Saharan
Africa that have not experienced a
genocide and war. There are virtuall
no rich/poor differentials in coverage
rates.
Prenatal Coverage                     94.0         92.0    In spite of the genocide/war, the  DHS
at least I prenatal visit (%)                              country has succeeded in
maintaining relatively high prenatal
coverage rates; nevertheless,
continuity of prenatal care is very
low with only 10% of mothers
reporting at least 4 prenatal
consultations.
Deliveries assisted by a              26.0         31.0     The proportion of deliveries assisted DHS
health professional (%)                                    by a health professional has risen
slightly even though it remains
relatively low. Rwanda has very few
trained midwives; most rural
deliveries are assisted by traditional
birth attendants.
-22 -



Objecttfl strat6glelactUvtte                   Unit6    QuanUteTri QuantotiTrt QuantoTrT QuantiteTri Quantit6Trl QuanUttTri QuanUt6Tr
m.1       m.2        m.3       m.4        m.5        m.6       .1a6
REDUIRE LES PROBLEMES DE SANTE ET DE
POPULATION DU RWANDA
REDUIRE LINCIDENCE ET L'IMPACT DE
L'INFECTION A VIH                                                                                   _
Contrlbuer au fonctlonnoment de to Commission
Nationale de Lutte contre to SIDA (CNLS)
Doter la CNLS d'un vAhicule 4x4 au deuxieme  vehicule       0          1          0         0          0         01
trimestre de 2001                           tout4errain                      I
Doter la CNLS d'un lot de matriaels de bureautique (2 lot   0          1          0         0          0         0          1
ordinateurs et accessoires, logiclels ddto, 1
photocopieuse et accessoires, retroprojecteur, 6cran
et divers) au deuxibme trimestre de 2001
Doter, chaque trimestre, la CNLS en foumitures de  lot trimestiiel  1  1          1         1          1          1         6
bureau necessaires pour le fonctionnement de ses
services administratifs (A raison de 1 lot par trimestre)
Recruter, en 2001, le personnel technique et  agent         1          3          3         3          3         3         16
administratif necessaire au foncbonnement du CNLS recrute_           _
Financer los frais de personnel pour 2 consultants  personne-m  0      3         3          3          3         3         15
pour le CNLS (a raison de 1000 dollars par mods et  ols
par consultant, pdt 15 mols)
Financer leas frais de personnel pour 3 agents  personnt-m  0          3          3         3          3         3         15
d'ex6cution/support pour le CNLS (A ralson de 700  ois
dollars par mois pdt 15 mols)
Organiser deux atelbers pour l'adopton d'un Plan  atelier   0          2          0         0          0          0         2
strategique natonal revise de lutto conbre le SIDA, au
dodeuxem tnmestre de 2001 (A raison de 5.000.00
dollars par atelier)
Mettre a jour le Plan strat6gique national de lutte  consultation  0   1          0         0          0         01
contre le SIDA, au deuxisme tiimestre de 2001  nabonale
Reproduire le document du Plan stratgique national cople    100       100        100       100        100        100       600
de lutte contre le SIDA (A raison de 100 exemplaires
par tnmetre et 5.00 dollrs par exemElalre)__
Organiser, tous los 6 mols, 1 comp6tition/foire a  foire               0          1         0          1          03
idees pour la s4lection des meilleurs projets de lutte
contre le SIDA
Organiser, tous leas 6 mois, 1 concours pour identifier concours  0    1          0         1          0          1         3
et reoompenser les trols meilleurs projets de lutte
contre le SIDA
Appuyer financierement des projets de lutte contre  projet              1         2         2          1          18
les comportements sexuels A risque en favour des
elements do rAPR, A raison de 6 projets en 2001 et 2
en 2002
Appuyer financidrement des projets de lutte contre  projet   0         1          0         0          1          02
les oomportements sexuels a risque en faveur des
jeunes, b ralson de 1 projet en 2001 et 1 en 2002
Appuyer finanrcirement des projets de lutte contre  projet   0         0          1         0          0          12
les comportements sexuels a nsque en favour des
associabons feminines, A raLson de 1 projet en 2001
et 1 en 2002
Appuyer financderement des projets de lutte contre  projet  0          1          0         1          0          0         2
les oomportements sexuels A risque en faveur des
oommunautes locales, A raison de 1 projet on 20010
1 en 2002                                                                   _           _
Appuyer finandorement des projets de lutte contre  projet    0          1         0         0          1          0         2
leas comportements sexuels a risque en faveur dos
associations religieuses, A raison de 1 projet en 2001
et 1 en 2002
Appuyer financdrement des projets de prise en  projet      0           1         0         0          1          0         2
charge dos personnes vivant avec le VIH. a raison do
1 projet en 2001 et I en 2002                _      __                                     __
Organiser un voyage de IO jours A Washington de 7  personne-vo  7      0          0         0          0          0         7
experts nabonaux pour relaboration du document du  yage
Projet Multisectoriel do Lutte contre le SIDA (MAP) (A
- 23-



raison de 4.458.60 dolars par expert et par voyage)                         I_I
Assurr la partcpatior des cadres nationaux a des  cadr-voyag  0       1          1         3         2          0         7
ateliers Intafatbonaux sur la SIDA et les autos IST, e
a ralson de 6 cadres par an
Organiser 3 runlons semestrbilles 6argles du CNLS reunbon   0         1         0          1         0          1         3
(A raison do 1500 dollars par reunbon)      elargi
Assurer la diffusion des spots radio (b ralson do 2  spot-semahn  0   8         8          8         8          8        40
spots par semaine pendant 40 semalnes)      a
Assurer la diffusion des spots tevlss (a raison de  spot-sefahn  0    8         8          8         8          8        40
spots par semaine pendant 40 semaines)      e
Assurer la producfion des 6missbons radio (b raison  mlsslon  0       8         8          8         8          8        40
de 1 emisslon par semahne pendant 40 semaines)
Organiser es actvits de la Journ6e mondiale du  JMS         0         0         0          1         0          0         1
SIDA (JMS) en 2001 (A ralson de 20.000 dollars par
Finanoer rassurance dun v6hicule du CNLS (A  vehicuboan    0          1         0          0         1          0         2
raison drune moyenne do (500 dollars par an, pdt 2
ans)
Assurer Is fonctonnement et la maintenance d'un  vhkcule-mol  1       3         3          3         3          3         16
vehicules du CNLS (a raison drune moyenne de 200  s
dolars par vehicule et par mols, pdt 16 mols)
Assurer le fontonnement et lmanteonanos de  mos             1         3         3          3         3          3         16
materiel de bureautique du CNLS (a ralson de 125
dollars par mois, pendant 16 mols)
Contribuer aux frals de tl6phone, Fax, lntemet du  rnois    1         3         3          3         3          3         16
CNLS (A ralson do 300 dolars par mols, pendant 16
mois.)
Assurer l achat de carburant n6essaire pour  vAhicule-mol   1         3         3          3         3          3         16
rex6cutlon des deplaoements de service du CNLS (a s
raison de 52 00 dollars par mois, pdt 16 mols)
Contribuor au tonct/onnement de l'UnltA du
Programme Nationale de Lutte contre le SIDA au
sein du Mlnist6ro de la Sante (PNLS)
Doter, chaque trimestre, ie PNLS en foumitures de  lot trimestnel  1             1         1         1          1         6
bureau necessaires pour le fonctonnement do ses
services administratits (A ralson del lot par
tnmestre)
Assurer le fonctionnement et la maintenanoe et  vahIcule-moi  15      15        15        15         15         15        90
rassurance de 5 vhicules du PNLS (a ralson d'une  s
moyenne de 402.20 dollars par vehicule et par mnos,
pdt 16 mols)
Contribuer au foncdonnement et a namantenance de mols       1         3          3         3         3          3         16
nateriel do bureauSique du PNLS (a raison de 315
dollars par mols, pendant 16 mols)
Susciter des projets valables de utt contre le SiDA  projet  0        2          2         2         2          2         10
on faveur des beunes, des militaires, des groupes
f6minins, des camionneurs et d'autres groupes a
nsque (a ralson do 2 projets par trimestre)
Assurer ie gardlennage/sAcuritA et lentretien des  mois    1         3          3         3          3         3         16
baUments du PNLS (a raison de 200 dollars par
mdos, pendant 16 mols)
Fhnancer les frals de personnel pour 1 consultant  personne-m  1      3          3         3         3          3         16
6pidemiologiste pour Ie PNLS (A ralson do 1000  ods
dolars par mols et par oonsultant, pdt 16 mols)
Fnaner esfrais de personnel pour 1 oonsultant  personne-m   0         1          0         1         0          1         3
comptable pour le PNLS (a raison de 1000 dollars  dls
par mois et par consultant, pdt 3 mols)
Contrlbuer aux frals de telphone, Fax, internet (3  mols    1         3          3         3          3         3         16
lgnes) du PNLS (A raison do 375 dollars par mols,
pendant 16 mols)
Assurer la producon des emissons rado (A raison  emisslon   3         13        13        13         13         13        68
de 1 emisseon par semanne pendant 68 semahnes)
Assurer la formation onUnue du personnel    agenttamiA      0         0          4         4         0          0          8
Appui fnancier et technique A la rchrche en millu projet    0         0          1         1          0         1          3
hospitalier et universitaire ( A raison de 2 projets en
2001 et 1 en 2002 )
-24 -



Visitor, chaque semestre, tous les districts sanitaires toumbe  0     1         0          1         0          1         3
dans la cadre de la supervision des activitAs
m6dicales de lutte contre le SIDA (b rmison do 1000
dollars par toumbe)
Contribuer au fonctonnement du Centre
Rwandals d7nformatlon sur le SIDA (CRIS)                         _
Doter, chaque trimestre, le CRIS en foumftures de  lot trimestriel  1  1        I          1         1          1         6
bureau nbcessaires pour le foncUionnement de ses
services administratifs (A rabson de 1 lot par
timestre)
Assurer to fonctionnoment et la maintenance de 1  v6hiculo-mol  1     3         3          3         3          3         16
vehicule du CRIS (a rasson d'une moyenne de 300  s
dollars par vehicule et par mois, pdt 16 mois)
Susciter des projets de counseling et de testing  projet    1         1         1          1         1          1         6
volontaire en favour des jeunes, des miltaires, des
groupos f6minins, des camionneurs et d'autres
groupes a risque (a raison de 1 proJet par timestre)
Contribuer au fonctonnement et A la maintenance de mois     1         3         3          3         3          3         16
materiel de bureautique du CRIS (a raison de
289.67dollars par mois, pendant 16 mols)
Conribuer aux frals deau et d'electriat6 des  mots          1         3         3          3         3          3         16
bAUments du CRIS (a raison de 347.67dollars par
mois, pendant 16 mols)
Contribuer aux trals de telephone, Fax, Intemet (3  mois    1         3         3          3         3          3         16
lignes) du CRIS (A ralson de 430.33 dollars par mois,
pendant 16 mois)
Assurer l achat de carburant necessaire pour la  v6hicule-mol  1      3         3          3         3          3         16
supervision desdiff6rents programmes du CRIS (A  s
relson de 318.53 dolars par mois, pdt 16 mois)
Rdduire la transmission sexuello du Virus de                                                                              0
I lmmuno-deflclence humalne (VWI                                 _
Appuyer techniquement des projets de lutte contre  projet  2          2         2          2         2          2         12
les comportements sexuels a risque en favour des
elements de rAPR, a raison de 8 projets en 2001 et 4
en 2002
Appuyer techniquement des projets de lutte oontre  projet   0         1          1         0          1         0         3
los comportements sexuels A risque en favour des
Jeunes, A raison de 2 projets en 2001 et I en 2002
Appuyer techniquement des projets de lutte oontre  projet   0         0          1         1          1         0         3
les comportements sexuels A risque en favour des
associaaons feminines, A raison de 2 projets en 2001
et 1 en 2002
Appuyer techniquement des projets de lutte contre  projet   0         1          1         0          1         0         3
los comportements sexuels a risque en faveur des
communautes locales, A raison de 2 projets en 2001
et 1 en 2002
Appuyer techniquement des projets de lutte oontre  projet   0         0          1         1          1         0         3
les comportements sexuels A risque en faveur des
associabons reUgieuses, A raison de 2 projets en
2001 et 1 en 2002
Assurer rachat de 72 000 condoms (au prix de 20  cart.a 1200  0       12        12         12        12         12        60
Fnw par paquet de 4 condoms)                condoms
Approvisonner 350 oentres de sant6 en condoms, A  cart.b 1200  0      0          3         3          3         3         12
ralson de 5000 condoms par oentre et par taimestre  condoms
Approvbisonner les gamisons de PAPR en condoms, cart.a 1200  2,500  2,500      2,500     2,500      2,500      2,500    15.000
a ralson de 5000 oondoms par gamison et par  condoms
trimestre
R6dulre /a transmission sanguine du Virus de                                                                               0
Iilmmuno-deflcence humalne (If                             _
Assurer l achat de 24 000 tests VIH  et 2 (a raison  lot de 00  0     48        48        48         48         48       240
de 350 dollars par 100 tests)              tests
Elaborer un guide sur la transfusion sanguine A  consultadon  1       0         0          0          0         0          1
l1ntention du personnel de santb            natonale
Reproduire le Guide sur la transfusion sanguine (a  copie  0         500        0          0          0         0         500
raison de 500 exempaires et 10 dolars par
exemplaire)
-25-



Disponibiliser Is Guide sur la transfusion sanguine au copla           0                    0         0          0        500
niveau dz chaque atabfissem=nt sanitzira (a raison
do 6 sxemnp!ares par taXbUssmant)                                      00
RMd00re to mrlsmioszion m7or-enfn1 do                                                                                       O
Mattre A lour to Gu!da sur la prAvantion ds Ia  consultaton  1         0         0          0         0          0          1
transmission rnbr3-enlant do l'infction A VIH
Raproduire la Guide sur la prsvention ds is  copis          0         500        0          0          0         0         500
tansmission mire-onfent de rinection A VIH (A
raison dz 500 ex3mplairss at 17 dollars pEr
exemplare)
Disponibti&sr Is Gu!dz sur [a prAvention de la  copts                 500        0          0          0         0         500
transmission mAre-enfant au niveau do 10 structurs
sandtaires (b raison da 10 exemplaires par
6tablisscm3nt),
Assurer la formation do 250 agents dans la   agent forme    0          50        50        50         50         50        250
prevenbon de ia trensmission mbre-enfant (b raison
de 50 agants par trimastre at 40 dollars par agent)
Doter 10 cantres d'un lot do mat6rials n6cessaires  lot timestbiel  0  10         0         0          0         0         10
pour la prv3ntton de is transmission mAre-enfnt da
rinfection VIH au dsuxiama trimestre de 2001 (A
raison de 20C0 dollars par lot)
Doter, chaque trimastre, 10 centres en mAdicaments lot btimestiel  0   10        10         10        10         10        50
et autres consommabls n-cessaires pour ta
pr6vention de la transmission do l'lnfecton VIH (A
ratson da 1000 dollars par lot)
Am6NIIas lb pz7lo on cherge dss6 coo dn                                                                                     a
Infaectlon sezuelesmant tirnsmisslb.es(i"f)
Eisbormr un guide sur is pnss en chargs des cas  consultaton  0        1          0         0          0          0         1
d'IST                                        nationals
Reproduire Is Guida sur la priso en charge   copie          0         1,000       0         0          0          0       1,000
syndromique des [ST (b raison do 1000 examp!eires
et 10 dollars par exempiaire)
Disponibiliser le Guide sur la prise en charge  copbs       0         400         0        400         0          0        800
syndromique dss IST au niveau do chequ3
6tablissement sanitaire (A raison de 5 exemp!aires
par 3abbliss3m2nt)
Disponibilissr le Guide sur la priss en charge  copis        0        100         0        100         0          0        200
syndromique des IST au niveau dss pharmedcs at
officines (A raison do 5 exemplaires par
6tablisssment)_
Assurer a formation da 85 agants dns la prse on  agent form  0         17        17         17         17         17        85
charge syndomiqu3 des IST (a raison do 17 egents
par trimostre at 40 dolisrs par agant)_
Prooder a l achat de 56.000 tssts repide GAnia1 at lIt de 100  0      112        112       112        112        112       560
2 (b raison ds 330 dollars par 100 tests)   tests
Proceder b rachat do 20.000 tests da confirmation (A bolte ds 100  0   40        40         40        40         40        200
raison do 435 dolisrs par 100 tests)        tests
Doter Ia centre do dApistags d'un lot do meatrle!s  lot     0          0          1         0          0          0         1
pour Is dspistage du VIH (centrifugousas,
chronomatr3s, groupo Alsctrcgtnes, ordinateurs
portables, stabilisateurs at divers, A raison do 12000
dollars par lot)
Doter, cheque bifmstre, Is centre en consornmabies lot trimestrial  0  1          1         1          1          1         5
ncssaires pour is dApistago du VIH (aigutlzs.
vacutainers, tubss do prfatvamnnt avec EDTA,
ouats, alcool, tubes A s6rum, et divers)
Arnl6lorw Ihccrss ouz scmCes de coune-ning et                                                                               0
testinq volont3lm pour lI'nfectlon 6 VWN (CM
Elaborer un guldz sur l prise en charga das  consultation   1         0          0         0          0          0         1
personnes consuliant lse servicas de CTV
Reproduirs  Guide sur la ptis en charge des  copts          0         100        100       100        100        100       500
parsonnes consultant las servics ds CTV (A ralson
da 100 exempteires par ttimsstr3 at 10 do!lars par
exemplaire)
-26-



Disponibiliser le Guide sur la prise en charge des  copie  0         50   |    0         0         50         0        100
personnes consultant les services de CTV (a raison
de 5 exemplaires par etablissement) 
Etablir des mrcanismes de collaboration entre les  consultabon  0    1         0         0          0         0         1
centres CTV, les districts sanmtaires et les autres
intervenants communautaire de facon A faciliter
rodentation et le suM des personnes test6es dans
les centres CTV
Assurer la formation en CTV de 200 conseillers des agent forme  0    40        40        40        40         40       200
communaut6s en 2001 (A raison de 50 dollars par
agenQ                                                                                 _
Doter lacentre dun lot de materiels de counseling et lot de  0       0         2         1          1         0         4
de testing volontaire (a raison de 5000 dolars par lot) materiel
CTV                            I
Integrer les services de VCT dans au mons 12  district     0         0         2         2          1         1         6
nouveaux districts de sante
Assurer la formnation continue du personnel (  agent formr  0        2         2         2          0         0         6
counselling , technique de labo et gestion des
donnees statistques et hnfornnaUque )
Amdllorer la prise en charge des personnes                                                                              0
vivant avec le VIH                                                                                        .
Ebaborer un guide sur la prise en charge   consultation    0         1         0         0          0         0         1
psycho-medicale pour la prise en charge des
personnes vivant avec le VIH
Reproduire 2000 exemplaires du Guide sur la prise  cople   0       2,000       0         0          0         0        2,000
en charge psycho-medicale des personnes vivant
avec le VIH (a reison de 10 dollars par exemplaire)
Disponibiliser le Guide sur la prisa en charge  copie      0        500                                                500
psycho-medicale des personnes vivant avec le VIH
au niveau de chaque distrid sanitaire (a raison de
100 exemplaires par distnct)
Assurer la fomation de 50 formateurs en prise en  agent forme  0     15        15        0         30         0         60
charge des personnes vivant avec la VIH (a raison de
30 cadres par an. 6 jours par formation et 40 dollars
par agent)
Assurer la formation de 6 medecins dans rutlisaUion  agent forme  0  6         0         0          0         0          6
des anti-rAtroviraux (a raison de 3 cadres par an, 6
jours par formation et 2514 dollars par agent)
Appuyer tachniquement et financiArement des projet projet  0         2         2          0         2          0         6
de prbe en charge des personnes vivant avec le VIH,
A raison de 4 projets en 2001 et 2 en 2002
Sulvre l'evolutlon de llnfectlon A VWH et dautres                                                                        0
Infections sexuellement transmissibles (IST)
Assurer Iachat de 20000 reactifs pour la   lot mensuel     0         40        40        40        40         40        200
surveillance Apidemiologique des IST, y compris
rinfection a VIH (a raison de 350 dollars par lot de
100 tests)
Doter 14 sites sentinelles dun lot de ractifs pourla  lot mensuel  0  14       14        14        14         14        70
survelUance ApidAmiologique des IST, y compris
linfecton a VIH (a raison de 1 lot par centre et par
tilmestre et 500 dollars par lot)
Assurer ie recyclage de 30 technicians sanhtaires  technicien  0     20        0          0         10         0        30
dans la surveillance epidbmiologique des IST, y
compris l'infedtion A VIH, a raison de 20 cadres en
2001 et de 10 en 2002 (a raison de 40 dollars par
technicien)
Organiser des reunions trimestrielles dcrchange  rAunmon   0         1          1         1         1          1         5
dinformation sur les donnAes recentes de la  organisee
recherche (A ralson de 1500 dollars par rbunion)
Assurer la partcipation des cadres a des ateliers  cadre-voyag  0    0         3          0         3          0         6
intemationaux sur le VIH / SIDA /IST y compris  e
rinfecUon a VIH a raison de 3 cadres en 2001 et 3 en
2002 (A raison de 1813 Dollars par cadre et par
wayage)_
ASSURER UN ACCES CONTINUE AUX                                                                                            0
MEDICAMENTS ESSENTIELS GENERIQUES
(MEG)                                                 I         I          I_I_I_
-27-



Am6llorer 1enreglstrnment. IlInspectfon et to                                                                           0
contrMe de qualito des prodults
pharmaceutlquos
Elaborer des decrets et autres textes d applicabon de consultaton  0  2        0         0         2          0         4
la Lol sur IArt phamiaceutlque, sp6clalement sur
renregistrement rlnspectlon et le contrOle de qua.9tb
des produfts pharmaceutlques
Signer et pubier les d6crets et autres txtes  textes      0          4         4         2          0         3        13
d'application de la Loi sur IArt pharmaceutique
Installer une CommIssion dcenregistrement des  commission  0         3         3         3         3          3        15
mdicaments au soin do la Direction de Pharmacle
(DPh)
Dotor, chaque timestre, la Directon do la Pharmacie lot tdmestriel  1  1       1         1          1         1         6
en foumitures de bureau necessalres pour le
fonctiornement de ses servioes administratifs (b
raison de 1086 US$ par trimestre)
Recruter, en 2001 l personnel technique et  agent         0          1         0         0          0         0         0
administratif supplbmentaire n6cossaire pour le bon
fonctionnement de la DPh
Flnancor les frals do personnel pour un consultant  personne-m  0    3         3         3          3         3         15
pour la DPh (a raison de 2000 US$ dollars par mois ods
et par consultant, pdt 15 mois)
Financer ls frais de personnel pour 3 agents  personne-m  0          9         9         9          9         9         45
dexacution/support pour la DPh (A raison do 740  ods
dollars par mols et par agent, pdt 15 mols)
Organiser deux atelbors de formation sur la ligisation atober  0     1         1         0          0         0         0
pharmaceutique, au dewdume trimestre de 2001 b
lintention de 100 pardcipants (A raison do 10000
dolars par ateller)
Etaborer un guide dlnspection des pharmacies et  consultation        0         0         0          0         0         0
officines                                  nationale
Reproduire 100 exemplaires du Guide d'inspecUon  cople     0        100        0         0          0         0        100
des pharmacies et officines (A ralson de 35 dollars
par exemplaire)
Disponibliser le Guide dcinspectUon des phamaiades  cople  0       150        0         0          0         0        150
et officlnes au niveau de chaque district sanitaira (A
raison de 5 exemplaires par district)
Recruter une Agence pour rinspection des   agence                    0         0         0          0         0         0
pharmacies et officines pour un contrat A durbe de 1  recrut6e
an renouvellable
Assurer le paiement des activitbs dlinspecUon des  forfait  I        1          1         1         1          1         6
pharmacies et offidnes effectubes par rAgence  trimestiel
Financer rassurance drun vbhicule de Is DPh (A  vehicule-mol  1      3         3         3          3         3         16
ralson d'une moyenne do 700 dollars par mols, pdt 24 s
mobs)
Assurer le foncUonnement et l maintenance drun  v6hicule-moi  1      3         3          3         3          3        16
v6hlules de la DPh (A ralson d'une moyenne de 145 a
dollars par vehicule et par mois. pdt 16 mols)
Contribuer a rrmaintenance des bAtiments de la  mois       0         3         3          3         3         3         15
DPH (a ralson de 400 dollars par mols, pendant 18
mobs)
Assurer le fonctionnement et la mantenanoc de  mols        3         3         3          3         3          3        18
matbriel de bureautique do Is DPh (A ralson de 85
dolars par mobs, pendant 16 mobs)
Contribuer aux frabs de tblphone, Fax, lntemet (5  mols    1         3         3         3          3         3         16
Ugnes) de Is DPh (A ralson de 193 dollars par mois,
pendant 16 mois)
Assurer I'achat de carburant n6cessalre pour  v6hicule-mol  1        3         3         3          3         3         16
rex6cution des d6placements de servole de la Dph (A s
rison de 250 dollars par mois, pdt 16 mdos)
Am6llorer Ia gesUon et lusage des modlcaments
aux nhveaux pdrph6rigue, Intenrmdlaro et central
Elaborer un Guide sur la gestion et b bon usage des consultation  0  1         0         0          0         0          1
medicaments                                nationale  I                   I_I                                       I_I
Reproduire 500 exemplaires du Guide sur Is gestion  copie  0        500        0         0          0         0         500
etIl bon usage des mOdbcaments (b raison de 35
- 28 -



dolbars par exemplire)                                                                                   I
Assurer la formation de 40 cadres (m6decns,  agent form6   0         1         0         0          1         0         2
pharnnadens et infirmiers) dans la gestion etis bon
usage des m6dicaments (a raison de 40 cadres par
an, 6jours par formation et 150 dollars par agent)
Organiser, chaque semestre, une enquete legere sur enquete  0        1         0         1          0         1         3
la gestion et l'usage des medicaments      _
Doter la DPH d'un v6hicule 4x4 au deuxiLme  vhicule tout   0         1         0         0          0         0         1
timestre de 2001                           terrain
Amellorer la disponibllltA des MEG au nlveau
des DlstHcts sanltalres
Doter, chaque trnmestre, 5 Dlsbicts sanitalres en  lot trlmestrlel  1  1       1         1          1         1         6
m6dicaments et autres consommables medkcaux
necessaires pour le soins des malades (a raison de
240000 USS par lot)
ASSURER UN ACCES CONTINUE AUX SOINS DE
SANTE PRIMAIRES AU NIVEAU DE 5 DISTRICTS
SANITAIRES
Amdllorer la quallte des seivices foumis au
ntveau de 5 Districts sanitaires
Achever la constructon de l HOpital de Muhima  ensemble de  1        0         0         0          0         0         1
travaux
Achover l6quipernent de rHopial de Muhima  lot             1         0         0         0          0         0         1
equipement
Contibuer la r6novation de I5 centres de sant6  centre     0         10        0         0          0         0         10
dans 5 Districts sanitaires (a ralson de _ doUlars
par contre de sante)
Equiper 28 centres de sante dans 5 Dlstricts  lot          0         1         0         0          0         0         1
sanitaires et 5 hopitaux de district en    equipement
radbcommunication
Dotr, chaque trimestre, 5 Districts sanitaires en  lot trimestrb  15  15       15        15        15         15        90
foumitures de bureau necessaires pour le
fonctionnement de ses services administratifs (A
raison de 400 dollars par lot)
Recnuter en 2001 l personnel technique et  agent          10         10        10        10        10         10        60
admhnistraUf suppiementaire necessaire pour le bon
foncionnment de 5 Districts sanitaires
Financer les frais de personnel pour O m6decins  personne-m  10      10        10        10        10         10        60
expatries pour 5 Disbicts sanltaires (a raison de 750  ols
dodars par mois et par consultant, pdt 18 mois)
Effectuer des visfes d supervision des contres de  toumee  5         15        15        15        15         15        80
sante par les medecins ou les superviseurs de  oomplete
district (A ralson do 1 toumee par distrit et par moi
et 200 dolars par visite)
Assurer rachatde carburant necessalre pour la  vehkcule-mol  10      10        10        10        10         10        60
r6alisation des d6placements de servies do 5  s
Districts sanitaries (a raison de 318 dollars par mods
et par district, pdt 18 mois)
Financer laswrance de 10 v6hicules de Districts  vehicule-mol  30    30        30        30        30         30        180
sanitaires (a raison d'une moyenne de 145 dollars pa s
an, pdt 2 ans)
Assurer le fonctionnement et la manteriance de 10  v6hicule-moi  30  30        30        30         30        30        180
vehicules de Districts sanitaires (A ralson dcune  s
moyenne do 145 dollars par vehicule et par mols, pdt
18 mots)
Assurer le fonctionnoment et la mantenance des  dUstrict-mds  15     15        155       15         15        15        90
equipements m6dicaux de 5 Districts sanitaires (A
raison de 77 par mois et par district et pendant 18
mols)
Renforcer Is fonctionnement de la Direction des
Soins de Sante (DSS)
Mettre A lour le Guide de fomiation des animateurs  consultation  0  1         0         0          0         0          1
de sante                                   natbonale
Mettre a jour le Guide de supervision Int6gr6e dos  consultaion  0   1         0         0          0         0          1
activit6s de Districts sanitaires          nationale
Rediger, chaque semestre un rapport sur l  consuitation    0         1         0          1         0          1         3
-29-



rendement des animateurs de santa                                 I                              I_I
Rediger, chaque semestre, un rapport dataiMiO sur le  consultation  0  1         0          1          0         1          3
rendema nt des Distrits sanitaires
Assurer 4 sessions de formatons en santa     session        0          1          1         1          1         0          4
reproductive et en IEC pendant 6 jours chacune pour
au moins 2 agents de santa par FOSA, A ralson de
3500$ par session
Assurer des sesslons de formation de 5 jours pour  session   0         5          0         5          0         5         15
les 1200 animateurs de santl nouvellement alus,
selon le module ravisa a ralson de 1 session de
fomation par district et par semestre et 2000$ par
session  _
Assurer rachat de 1200 lots de materiel (cahier stylo, Lot  0         400        0         400         0        400       1,200
fiches de rapport, classaurs, ..) pour les animateurs
de santa fommes, A raison de 10 dollars par lot
Financer les frals d'un consultant Intemational pour  homms  0         0         3          3          3         0          9
l'oIrganisation dans un district pilote de rorganisation  mols
du financement des services selon le rendement du
districtA raison de 5000$ par mois                                           _
Assurer la participaion des cadres de la DSS et des  hommes/  0       1          1         0          1          0         3
Districrts de sante a des confArences sur le  mols
financement et la gestion des programmes de sante
Recniter, en 2001, 2 consultants pour le suM  agent         2          0         0          0          0         0          2
technique et comptable des activites de Distncts
sanltaires
Financer les frais de personnel pour un      personne-m     2          3          3         3          3          3        17
Gestionnazre-comptable charge du suivi des activitbs ois
des Dtstricts saniLtaire (a raison de 1000 dollars par
mots, pdt 16 mods)
Contnbuer aux frais deau et d6lectricit des  moas            1         3          3         3          3          3         16
bEAtiments de la DSS (a raison de 347 par mois,
pendant 18 mois)
Contribuer aux frais de telephone, Fax, Intemet (5  mois     1         3          3         3          3          3         16
lignes) de la DSS (a raison de 434 dollbrs par mois,
pendant 18 mois)
Assurer fachat de carburant necessaire pour la  vehicule-moi  1        3          3         3          3          3         16
supervision des diffbrents programmes de la DSS (a  s
ralson de 318 par moms, pdt 18 mols)
Visiter, chaque semestre, tous las districts sanitaires toumbe  0      1          0         1          0          1         3
dans le cadre de la supervision integrbe des activitbs
de soins de sante primaire (A ralson de 900 dollars
par toumrrbe)
Financer rassurance de 2 vehicules de la DSS (A  vehicule-moi  4       6          6         6          6          6         34
raison d'une moyenne de 145 dollars par an, pdt 2  s
ans)
Assurer le fonctionnement et la maintenance de 2  vAhicule-mol  4      6          6         6          6          6         34
vehicules de la DSS (a raison d'une moyenne de 14c s
dollars par v6hicute et par mads, pdt 18 mois)                                           _
Contribuer au fonctionnement et Ala nmaintenance  forfait    1         3          3         3          3          3
des equipements de bureau de la DSS (A raison de  mensuel
77 dolars par mols et par district et pendant 18 mads)
Renforcer te fonctUonnement du MEPS (ou
Rwanda Center for Health Communicaton)
Doter l MEPS d'une presse d'imprimnrie et    unite de       0          0          1         0          0          0         1
accessoires                                  presse
Doter b MEPS dun lot de papiers drimprimerle  rouleaux de   0          10         7         7          7          7         38
papier
Effectuer Ilaudit du MEPS                    consultaton    0          1          0         0          0          0         1
nationae                         _
Assurer ls salaires du Personnel National (araison  mols     3         3          3         0          0          0         9
d'une moyenne de 11500 dollars par mois, pdt 9
mois)
Assurer le carburant de 2 vhicules du MEPS (A  vhbicule      0         3          3         3          3          3         15
raison de 450 dollars par vbhicule et par mois,
pendant 15 mods)
Assurer la rbhabilitation dune salle dlmprimerie pour lot travaux  0   0          1         0          00
- 30 -



le MEPS                                    genie dvil                                          i
Effecteur une etude sur la capacIte d'auto-finacemen consultation  0  1        0         0          0         0         1
du MEPS                                    nationale
Financer l'assurance de 2 -Ahicules du MEPS (a  v6hicule-mol  0      6         6         6          6         6         30
raison d'une moyenne de 145 dollars par an, pdt 2  s
ans)
Contnbuer au fonctlonnement etA la maintenance  forfait    0         3         3         3          3         3         15
des equipements de bureau du MEPS (A raison de 1 mensuel
350 dollars par mols et pendant 15 mols)
Contribuer au fonctonnement et la nmaintenance  forfait    0         3         3         3          3         3         15
des equipements techniques du MEPS (a ralson de 1 mensuel
500 dollars par mois et pendant 15 mois)
ATrENUER LES PROBLEMES DE POPULATION                                                            _.
Amillorer la comprdhenslon des phenomenes
de populatfon
Realiser une etude sur la Population et l'Habitat  consultation  0   0         0         0          1         0         1
regroup6                                   nationale   _'                                                           I
Publier, chaque semestre, un rapport commente sur rapport  0         1         0         1          0         1         3
Iletat des indicateurs-cles du phenomene de la
population au Rwanda
Rentorcer to consensus natonal sur la nature et
los solutons des problimes de population
Assurer la diffusIon des spots radio (a ralson de 2  spot-semain  1  1         1         1          1         1         6
spots par semaine pendant 78 semaines) Le contrat e
est semestriel
Assurer la diffusion des spots televisbs (A raison de 2 spot-semain  1  1      1         1          1         1         6
spots par semaine pendant 78 semaines). Le contrat e
est bimesbiel
Assurer la producion des 6missions radio (b ralson  Amission  1      3         3         3          3         3         16
de 1 emission mensuell pendant 16 mois)    mensuelle
Organiser, chaque ann6e, une Semaine Nabonale de semalne   0         0         1         0          0         1         2
la Populabtion (SNP)
Organiser, chaque mols, 1 concours radio-diffuse sa concours  0      0         0         0          0         0         0
les questions de population, avec remise des prix
Organiser, tous los 6 mois, 1 concours pour identfier concours  0    0         0         0          0         0         0
et recompenser [es trols meilleurs projets de lutte
contre les problemes de population dans les
categories suivantes: publicaUon scientblque,
chanson, Plce de theatre,
Organmser, chaque mois, une conference-debat sur  conference  1      3         3         3          3         3         16
un probleme de population A l'intenUon d'un des
groupes-cibles suivants:cadres communaux,
associatons de jounes, autorites religieuses,
autontes administraUves, membres des comites
iocaux.
Organiser, cheque semestre. I seminaire pour la  seminaire  0        1         0          1         0         1         3
vulgarisaton des resultats des etudes realis6es sur
une quesbon de populabtion (a raison de 2320 dollars
par seminaire)                            I
Assurer la traduction, en kinyarwanda, des resultats  consultaton  0  0         1         0         0          0         1
des Atudes realisees sur une question de population
Rediger 1 livret tilingue (en kWnyrwanda, frangais et  consultation  0  0      0          1         0         0          1
anlais) sur des questons de populabon
Produire 2000 exemplaires de 1 livret tbilingue (en  exemplaire  0   0        2,000       0                            2,000
kinyrwanda, francais et anglais) sur des questions de
population (A raison de 10 dolars par exemplaire)
Developper les competences natlonales sur les
quesUons de populaton
Elaborer, en 2000, un Guide pour l'laboration des  consultabon  0    0         0          1         0         0          1
plans communaux qui Inthgre la variable populabon
ainsi qu un modble-type de plan communal developpe
selon ce guide
Assurer la formaton sur los questions de populaton  personne  0      50        0          0         0          0        50
de 50 formiateurs des ministeres-cies (a raison de 50 form6e
cadres par an, 6 jours par formaton et 120 dollars
par agent)
-31 -



Assurer la formatlon sur les questons de populaton  personne  0       0        150        150       150         0        450
de 450 cadres des assodations de jeunes (a raison  form6e
de 450 cadres par an, 6 jours par formation et 120
dollars par agent)
Assurer la formaiton sur les questions de population  personne  0     0         150       150       150         0        450
de 450 cadres des associations f6minines (a raison  form6e
de 450 cadres par an, 6 Jours par formation et 120
dolars par agent)
Assurer la formnation sur les questions de population  personne  0    0         50        50         50        50        200
de 200 responsables des cooperatives et des  fonmne
associations de developpement communautaire (a
raison de 200 cadres par an, 6 jours par formation et
120 dolars par agent)
Assurer la formation sur los questions de population  personne  0     0         0         40         40         0        80
de 80 membres des ONGs locales (a ralson de 80  formie
cadres par an. 6 jours par fomation et 120 dollars
par agent)
Assurer la formation sur les questions de populaton  personne  0      0         0          0         30         0        30
de 30 joumalistes (a raison de 30 cadres par an, 6  formma
lours par formation et 120 dollars par agent)
Assurer la formaton, sur les questons de populabon, personne  0      216       216       216        216        216      1.080
de 1080 enseognants du primaire (A ralson de 1080  tommie
cadres par an, 6 jours par formation et 120 dollars
par agent)
Assurer la fofnaton sur ls questions de population  personne  114    114        0          0         0          0        228
de 228 enselgnants du secondaire (a rabon de 228  fofmioe
cadres par an. 6 jours par fomialon et 120 dollars
par agent)
Rnwforcer le tondlonnomont de I /MTlco Natonal
de Population (ONAPO)
Doter, chaque trlmestre, l'ONAPO en foumitures de  lot trimestrel  1  1          1                   1          1         6
bureau necessaires pour lo fonctionnement de ses
services administratifs (a ralson de 1250 dolars par
lot)
Assurer le fonctonnemnt et la maintenance de 3  3           1         3          3         3          3         3         16
vihicules do lONAPO (a raison d'une moyenne de  vehiculbs-m
145 dolars par vehicub et par mols, pdt 16 mols)  ois
Contribuer au fonctionnement et a maintenance de  mois      1         3          3         3          3         3         16
materiel de bureauUque de rONAPO (A ralson de 60o
dollars par mdos, pendant 16 mols)
Contrtbuer la malntenance des batmentsde    mole            1         3          3         3          3         3         16
rONAPO (A ralson de 145 dollars par mols, pendant
16 mols)
Financer les frais de personnel pour -  consultants personne-m                                                            0
pour l'ONAPO (a raison do -  dollars par mols et  ods
par consultant, pdt 15 mols)
Financer les frals de personnel pour -  agents  personner-m                                                               0
d'ex6cutionrsupport pour rONAPO (a raleon de _  ois
dolars par mobs et par agent, pdt 15 mods)
Contribuor aux fais d'eau et d'lectidtcli des  mobs                                                                       0
baUments de lONAPO (A ralson do__  par mols,
pendant 18 mols)
Contribuer aux fais de telephone et Fax de rONAPO mole                                                                    0
(A raison de -   par mols, pendant 18 mols)
Assurer rachat de carburant nbcessaire pour la  3           3         9          9         9          9         9         48
supervision des dlfMrents prgrammes do rONAPO  vhloule-mol
(a ralson de 3000 dollars par mole, pdt 16 mols)  s
Vister, chaque semestre, los prfelctures dans le  toumrne   0         1          0         1          0         1          3
cadre de la supervision des acthvttts do population (A
raison de 395 dollars par toumeie)
ASSURER LE FONCTIONNEMENT DE L'UNIE
DE GESTION DU PROJET (UGP)
Rdiger, chaque semostre, un rapport synthtique  rapport     0         1         0          1         0          1         3
sur les depenses et les rsultats du Projet
Organbser, chaque semestre, une reunlon du Comite reunlon du  0       1                    1         0          1         3
do piltage du Projet                        Comrte      _
Reallser, chaque annee, un audit exteme du Projet  consultation  0    1          0         0          1         0         2
- 32-



intemat.
Recruter, en 2001, une equipe de consultants pour la equipe de        1                                                   1
pr6paration du PSP2                         consultants       _
Payer les frals de 1Iequipe de consultants chargee de consultaton  0  1         1          1         1          0         4
Ia pr6paration du PSP2 (A ralson de 5 000 dolars par
mois)
Coordonner les activt6s de pr6paration du PSP2  forfait     0         0         0          0         0          1         1
mensuel
Rediger, en 2002, le document du PSP2       consultaUon     0         0         0          0         1          0         1
intemat.
R6dlger, an 2002, un rapport de doture du Projet  consultaUon  0      0         0          0         0          1         1
natonale
Elaborer le document du projet du PSP II    consultaUion                                                                  0
Intemat.
Recruter, en 2001 le personnel technique et  agent          1         0         0          0         0          0         1
administratUf necessaire au fonctionnement de lIUGP
(Coordinateur, Charg6 des PassaUons de marches)
Flnancer les frais du personnel-cadre de rUGP (A  forfait   3         3         3          3         3          3         18
raison de 5000 dollars par mods, pdt 18 mols)  mensuel
Financer les frais du personnel de support do lIUGP  forfait  3       3         3          3         3          3         18
(A raison de 2000 dolars par mois, pdt 18 mols)  mensuel
Contribuer aux frais deau et delectricite des  forfait      3         3         3          3         3          3         18
baUments do l'UGP (b ralson de 0 dollar par mols,  mensuel
pendant 18 mois)
Contribuer aux fras de t6lephone, Fax, lntemet (2  forfaIt  3         3         3          3         3          3         18
lgnes) de rUGP (A raison de 800 dollars par mots,  mensuel
pendant 18 mols)
Assurer raciat de carburent necessalre pour la  forfait     3         3         3          3         3          3         18
supervision des difflrents programmes de rUGP (a  mensuel
raison de 1200 dollars par mois, pdt 18 mois)
Financer l assurance de 3 vhicules do lUGP (a  forfait annuel  0     0         0          1         0          1         2
ralson de 800 dollars par an. pdt 2 ans)
Assurer le foncdtionnement et la maintenance de 3  vehicule-mol  3    3         3          3         3          3         18
v6hicules de l'UGP (b raison dune moyenne de 1000 s
dollars par moal, pdt 18 mots)
Assurer le fonctionnement et lmahntenance de  forfait       3         3          3         3         3          3         18
materlel de bureautique de i UGP (A raison de 166,67 mensuel
dollars par mats, pendant 18 mols)
Fhnancer la s6curit pemianento des bureaux de  forfait      3         3         3          3         3          3         18
I UGP par des professbonnels                mensuel
Entretien batiments UGP                     forfait         1         0         0          0         0          0         1
Fiare revslon moteur pout les 2 Discovery a ralson de rvision  2      0         0          0         0          0         2
2000 dollars par revision                   vehicule
Foumiture de bureu a raison de 165 dollars par  forfait     3         3         3          3         3          318
mals pdt 18 moas                            mensuel
- 33 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Up to the 1996 restructuring - Project cost summary by component (in US $ million
equivalent)
Component                                              SAR          Actual
estimate   (at the time of
(5/15/91)      1996
restructuring)
A. Improving the quality and efficiency of FP services  6.0          4.3
B. 3xpansion and promotion of family planning services
1. FP posts equipment and supplies                      5.0          3.6
2 Utilization of a network of volunteers                5.9           4.3
3. Supporting the overall IEC strategy                  0.7           .5
Subtotal B                                              11.6         8.4
C. Supporting population studies and promoting
multisectoral activities                                1.6           1.2
D. Project management                                   1.7           1.2
Total baseline costs                                    20.9         15.1
Physical contingencies                                  1.1           0.8
Price contingencies                                     4.0           2.9
Total project costs                                     26.1         18.8
Up to the 1996 restructuring - Sources of financing (in US $ million equivalent)
Source                                    SAR          Actual
estimate   (at the time of
(5/15/91)      1996
restructuring)
IDA                                        19.6         18.8
USAID                                      1.9         _
UNFPA                                      1.2        _
Government                                 3.3      _
Total                                      26.1         18.8
- 34 -



After the 1996 restructuring - Project cost summary by component (in US $ million
equivalent)
Component                                              MOP        Actual, or
estimate      latest
(5122196)    estimate
A. Implementation of the natfonal health policy         8.3          7.7
B. Support the development and implementation of a      2.4         2.25
national AIDS control strategy
C. Support the development and implementation of a_
national population policy                              7.4         6.92
D. Project coordination                                 0.8         0.75
Total base costs                                       18.9         17.69
Physical contingencies                                  1.6          1.5
Price contingencies                                     1.3         1.22
Total Project Costs                                    21.8         20.4
After the 1996 restructuring - Sources of financing (in US $ million equivalent)
Source                                    MOP        Actual, or
estimate      latest
(5/22/96)    estimate
IDA                                       21.0         20.0
Government                                 0.5          0.4
Communities                                0.3          0.0
Total                                     21.8         20.4
- 35-



Up to the 1996 restructuring  Procurement (in US $ million equivalent)
Table 4A of the SAR (page 29) on procurement arrangements - for reference
Category               ICB        LCB       IS/LS      BGC        N/A      11otal
Equipment/materials     2.0                  0.8                             2.o
(2.0)                (0.7)                           (2.7)
Contraceptives          8.5                                                  83
(5.4)  (_.__)
Vehicles                           0.5                                       0.5
(0.5)                                  ,   0-52
Technical assistance                                    0.6                  0.6
(0.6)                (04)
Studies/training                   0.8       0.7        1.0       6.6        9.2
(0.7       (0.6)     (1.0)      (5.6)      7.9)
Operating costs                                                   4.5        4.5
(2.5)      (2.j )
Total                   10.5       1.3       1.5        1.6       11.1       26.1
(7.4)      (1.2)     (1.3)      (1.6)      (RI)     (19.6)
Up to the 1996 restructuring - Procurement arrangements - Actual (at the time of the 1996
restructuring)
Category               ICB      LCB/NCB      ISALS      BGC       N/A       Total
Equipment/materials      .
__ffi L - fiL       f     L   fJ _ll )   -  ( -(3.6)
Contraceptives           .
Vehicles
__ffizU       W       Th        Th         LL)  (     (0.7)
Technical assistance
_ _ T h  l-) iW)                 ( )       ( )        @G)
Studies/training
_ _-T h    ( - 3       (-)      T   h- 3   (-) p      (47)
Operating costs                     -
Total
Note: figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed or financed by the IDA credit.
ICB: International competitive bidding - LCB/NCB: Local/National competitive bidding - IS/LS:
International shopping/ Local shopping - BGC: Bank guidelines on consultants.
- 36-



After the 1996 restructuring - Procurement (in US $ million equivalent)
Table on procurement methods - Schedule C of the MOP (5/22/96) - for reference
Item                                    Procurement method          Other     Total
ICB      LCB      Consulting
services
1. Contraceptives and drugs          6.8                                       6.8
(6.6)                                     (6.6)
2. Equipment, vehicles, teaching     3.0       0.5                    0.8       4.3
materials and supplies              (3.0)     (0.5)                  (0.6)     (4.1)
3. Consultants' services, training,                       5.5                   5.5
studies and research                                      (5.5)                (5.5)
4. Incremental operating costs                                        3.5       3.5
(3.3)     (3.3)
5. Refunding of project                                               0.8       0.8
preparation advance                                                            (0.8)
6. Civil works                                 0.9                             0.9
(0.7)                            (0.7>
Total                              9.8      1.4       5.5          5.1       21.8
Of which IDA                      (9.6)     (1.2)    (5.5)        (4.7)     (21.0)
After the 1996 restructuring - Procurement arrangements - Actual, or latest estimate
Item                                    Procurement method           Other     Total
ICB      LCB      Consulting
____________________________________  _________          services
1. Contraceptives and drugs
(5.5)     (    - )                         (5.5)
2. Equipment, vehicles, teaching               0.5                              3.6
materials and supplies              (3.0)     (0.4)       (          (0.1)     (3.5)
3. Consultants' services, training,   -         -
studies and research                  - )                 (6.5)                (6.5)
4. Incremental operating costs                                        1.9       1.9
( - )  ( - )   ( - )    ~~(1.7)   (1-7)
5. Refunding of project
preparation advance                 (     - )                        (0.4)     (0.4)
6. Civil works                       1.7                                        2.5
(1.6)     (0.8)      (-O                   (2.5)
Total                            1.3                    2.4       20.4
Of which IDA              (10.1)    (1.2)       (6.5)       (2.2)    (20.0)
Note: figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed or financed by the IDA credit.
ICB: International competitive bidding - LCB: Local/National competitive bidding.
- 37 -



Health and Population Project
(Supplemental Credit 2272-1-RW)
Estimated costs by activity (in US $ million equivalent)
Activities                               MOP        Actual, or
estimate     latest
(11/20/2000)  estimate
1. Support to AIDS Control Activities    2.43         2.53
2. Support to Pharmaceutical Sector      1.18         1.22
3. Support to Health District Activities  2.16        2.24
4. Support to the Population Activities  0.64         0.67
Total baseline costs                     6.41         6.66
Physical contingencies                   0.66         0.69
Price contingencies                      0.28         0.28
Total project costs                      7.35         7.63
Sources of financing (in US $ million equivalent)
Source                                   MOP       Actual, or
estimate     latest
(11/20/2000)  estimate
IDA                                      7.00         7.27
Government                               0.35         0.36
Total                                    7.35         7.63
- 38 -



Procurement (in US $ million equivalent)
Schedule C of the MOP dated 11/20/00 (page 14) on procurement arrangements - for
reference
Expenditure Category              ICB       NCB       Other     N.I.F.    Total
Civil works                       0.25      0.47                  -        0.72
(0.22)    (0.40)      -          -       (0.62)
Equipment, vehicles, teaching     0.88      0.22      0.17        -        1.27
materials and supplies            (0.74)   (0.19)     (0.14)      -       (1.07)
Contraceptives and drugs          2.11                            -        2.11
(2.11)                                   (2.11)
Consultant services, training and                     2.58                 2.58
studies                             .                 (2.58)              (2.58)
Operating costs                     .                 0.67                 0.67
-       (0.62)               (0.62
Total                 3.24      0.69      3.42                7.35
Of which IDA             (3.07)   (0.59)     (3.34)              (7.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB          Othr2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB          Other      ______
1. Works                       0.25           0.47         0.00          0.00          0.72
(0.22)        (0.40)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.62)
2. Goods                       0.88           0.22          0.17          0.00         1.27
(0.74)        (0.19)        (0.14)        (0.00)        (1.07)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          2.58          0.00         2.58
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.58)        (0.00)        (2.58)
4. Miscellaneous               2.11           0.00          0.00          0.00         2.11
(2.11)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.11)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.67          0.00         0.67
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.62)        (0.00)        (0.62)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        3.24          0.69          3.42          0.00          7.35
(3.07)        (0.59)        (3.34)        (0.00)        (7.00)
2. Goods: equipment, vehicles, teaching materials and supplies
3. Services: consultant services, training and studies
4. Miscelaneous: contraceptives & drugs
5. Operating costs: operating costs
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (h) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 39-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
In terms of economic assessment of project activities, it was noted in the introduction that ONAPO
did carry out a cost/benefit analysis for activities initially proposed for the project. When the project was
restructured, the need to address the emergency situation in the country provided a sufficient rationale for
the choices that were made. Equity is also an important consideration, and the efforts to reduce financial
obstacles faced by poor people through community financing schemes supported by other donors, and to
assist poor families through income-generating activities under the HIV/AIDS component provide
successful lessons that are being applied in the design of the MAP operation.
In terms of equity, the overall picture varies by indicator selected. For child heath, tabulations of
key indicators from the 2000 Demographic and Health Survey show very little rich/poor differences in such
measures as immunization coverage (where the average for proportion of children with at least one
vaccination is close to 100 percent for all groups, though there are small differences in continuity of care,
with a poor-rich ratio of .94 on a population average of 85 percent).
There are greater poor-rich differences in reproductive health indicators, as shown in the figure
below. Only 12.5 percent of women in the lowest quintile had a skilled attendant (a doctor or a trained
midwife) at their last delivery, compared to over 62 percent for the highest quintile. As already noted,
overall use of modem contraception is low and has declined (from 9 percent in 1992 to 3 percent in 2000).
Use is very low (below 2 percent) for the lowest quintile, compared to over 15 percent for the highest
group.
Reproductive Health Indicators by Wealth Quintile,
Rwanda DHS 2000
70                             _
' 60                                      - /--+ Percent of women
E 50 -                                         with skill attendant
, 40 -                                         at delivery
. 30 -                                     -ue-Percent of women
p 20 -                                         using modem
C 10 -                                         contraception
0.
Lowest                     Highest
Wealth Quintiles
-40 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)       Implementation  Development
Month/Year      Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/1990                        6    TL, PH (2), Ec (2), Other
Appraisal/Negotiatlon
09/1990                        4   TTL, PH, Econ, Op
01/1991                        4    TTL, PH, IEC, Op
04/1991                        4    TTL, Op (3)
Supervision
11/1992                        2   TTL, IEC                              U              U
05./1993                       2    PH,Op                                U             HU
10/1993                        2   PH, IEC                               U              U
10/1995                        1   TTL                                  HU              U
02/1996                        3   TTL, PH, Other                        U              S
07/1996                        4   TTL, PH, Other (2)                    S              S
02/1997                        3    TTL, PH, Other                       S              S
07/1997                        3    TTL, PH, Other                       S              S
02/1998                        3    TTL, PH, Other                       S              S
10/98                          1   TTL                                   S              S
03/1999                        2    TTL, PH                              S              S
10/1999                        1   TTL                                   S              S
04/2000                        5    TTL, Op (2 ), Other (2)              S              S
12/2000                        5   TTL, PH,Op (3)                        S              S
04/2001                        1    TTL                                  S              S
12/2001                        1   TTL                                   S              S
06/2002                        7    TTL, PH (2), Econ, Op (2),           U              S
Other (2)
ICR
06/2002                        6    TTL, PH (2), Econ, Op (2),           U               S
Other
07/2002                        1    Op                                   U               S
TTL: Task Team Leader, PH. Public Health/Nutrition/Medical Specialist, Econ: Economist; IEC: Information/Educations/Communications
Op: lmplementation/Architect/Procurement/Fmancial Management/Institutional Specialist; Other: Task Team Assistant/Unidentified consultants
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                    61                       195,725
Appraisal/Negotiation                         41                       130,483
Supervision                                  317                      1,014,922
ICR                                           13                        43.000
Total                                        432                     1,384,130
Note. The number of s.w. and cost have been estimated based on available mformation.
-41-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Fl Sector Policies                    O H OSU*M O N O NA
Ol Physical                           O H *SUOM O N O NA
LI Financial                          OH   OSUOM      ON   *NA
O Institutional Development           O H O SU O M    O N 0 NA
I Environmental                       O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction             O H O SU * M ON      O NA
L Gender                        O H OSUOM O N ONA
LI Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N        * NA
L Private sector development          0 H O SU *M 0 N 0 NA
L Public sector management            0 H O SU O M * N     0 NA
LIOther (Please specify)              OH   OSUOM ON        * NA
-42 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
O Lending                                             OHS*S OU OHU
O Supervision                                         OHSOS         OU     OHU
LO Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
L Preparation                                         OHS OS        OU     O HU
OL Government implementation performance              O HS O S      0  U   0 HU
Ol Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S      0  U   0 HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
While the Bank and Borrower performance are rated 'satisfactory' on average, performance under the
supplemental credit was unsatisfactory:
Restructured Project            Supplemental Credit
IDA-22720                       IDA-22721
Outcome                         Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance                Satisfactorv                    Unsatisfactory
Borrower Perfofnance            Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
-43 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Cadre Strategique National de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA 2002-2006. Republique Rwandaise, CNLS, Mai
2002-07-02
Calves AE., 1998 Rwanda Sexual Behavior and Condom Use Survey. First Report
CNLS, CADRE STRATEGIQUE NATIONAL DE LUITE CONTRE LE VIH/SIDA 2002-2006. 2002,
COMMISSION NATIONALE DE LUTTE CONTRE LE SIDA (CNLS), PRESIDENCE DE LA
REPUBLIQUE, REPUBLIQUE RWANDAISE: Kigali, Rwanda.
Common Country Assessment Rwanda HIV AIDS 1999-2000 - CCA Paper 9
Common Country Assessment Rwanda Gender 1999-2000 - CCA Paper 10
Donnes Brutes CDV - HBpitaux de District de Kabgayi, Rwamagana et Ruli - Periode: Aofit 2000 a
Octobre 2001 - FHI/IMPACT. Decembre 2001.
Etude sur la Sante de la Reproduction et les Droits de la Femme Rwandaise - SWAA - Rwanda <
IHUMURE >> - Decembre 2001.
Evaluation de Base de la Prise en Charge des IST dans la Region Sanitaire de Kibuye - FHI/IMPACT,
Fevrier 2001.
Evaluation pour 1' Anne 2001 de la prise en charge des Infections Sexuellement transmissibles (IST) dans
les provinces de Byumba, Gitarama, Kibungo, Kigali Ngali et la Marie de la Ville de Kigali -
FHVIIMPACT. Mars 2002-07-02
FHI/Impact Rwanda, ENQUETE DE SURVEILLANCE DES COMPORTEMENTS (BSS) AUPRES DES
ROUTIERS. 2000, PNLS, Ministry of Health, Republic of Rwanda: Kigali, Rwanda.
FHI/Impact Rwanda, ENQUETE DE SUR VEILLANCE DES COMPORTEMENTS (BSS) A UPRES DES
PROSTITUEES. 2000, PNLS, Ministry of Health, Republic of Rwanda: Kigali, Rwanda.
FHI/Impact Rwanda, ENQUETE DE SURVEILLANCE DES COMPORTEMENTS (BSS) A UPRES DES
JEUNES DE 15-19 ANS. 2000, PNLS, Ministry of Health, Republic of Rwanda: Kigali, Rwanda.
FNUAP/MIGEPROFE, Etude Socio-culturel sur la Croissance, les Attitudes et les Pratiques par rapport
le Gendre. 2002, forthcoming, FNUAP, Ministry of Gender, Republic of Rwanda: Kigali, Rwanda.
Kigali Health Institute, ANALYSE DE LA COMPREHENSION DE LA SEXUALITE ET DU SIDA PAR LA
JEUNESSE RWANDAISE. 2001, Ministry of Education, Republic of Rwanda: Kigali, Rwanda.
Ministry of Health, RAPPORTANNUEL 2001. 2002, MINISTERE DE LA SANTE, REPUBLIQUE
RWANDAISE: Kigali, Rwanda.
PNLS, Multi-sectoral strategic frameworkfor HIVIAIDS control and prevention. 1998, PNLS, Ministry
of Health, Republic of Rwanda: Kigali, Rwanda.
- 44 -



Nandakumar, A., P. Schneider, and D. Butera, Use of and Expenditures on Outpatient Health Care by a
Group ofHliVPositive Individuals in Rwanda. 2000, SR No. 28. Partnerships for Health Reform (PHR),
Abt Associates Inc.: Bethesda, MD.
ONAPO, Demographic and Health Survey 1992. 1994, Office National de la Population, Kigali, and
Macro International, Calverton, Maryland: Kigali, Rwanda.
ONAPO, Demographic and Health Survey 2000. 2002, Office National de la Population, Kigali, and
Macro International, Calverton, Maryland: Kigali, Rwanda.
PNLS, 1997 Population Based Serosurvey. 1998, PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE LUTTE CONTRE
LE SIDA (PNLS), Ministry of Health, Republic of Rwanda: Kigali, Rwanda.
Poverty Observatory, A profile ofpoverty in Rwanda. 2002, National Poverty Reduction Programme &
Statistics Department, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, Republic of Rwanda: Kigali, Rwanda.
PSP (2002). RAPPORT ANNUEL 2001. Kigali, Rwanda, PROJET SANTE POPULATION,
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE, REPUBLIQUE RWANDAISE.
Rapport Annuel 2001 - R6publique Rwandaise. Mars 2002-07-02.
Rapport du Seminaire de Restitution des Resultats de l'Etude sur la Sante de la Reproduction et les Droits
de la Femme au Rwanda. SWAA - Rwanda ( IHiUMURE >> - Decembre 2001
Schneider, P., AK Nandakumar, D. Porignon, M. Bhawalkar, D. Butera, and C. Barnett, Rwanda National
Health Accounts 1998. 2000, Technical Report No. 53. Partnerships for Health Reform (PHR), Abt
Associates Inc.: Bethesda, MD.
Schneider, P., F. Diop, and C. Leighton, Pilot testing prepaymentfor health services in Rwanda: Results
and recommendations for policy directions and implementation. 2001, Technical Report No. 66.
Partnerships for Health Reform (PHR), Abt Associates Inc.: Bethesda, MD.
Schneider, P., F. Diop, D. Maceira, and D. Butera (2001). Utilization, Cost and Financing of District
Health Services in Rwanda. Bethesda, MD, Technical Report No. 61. Partnerships for Health Reform
(PHR), Abt Associates Inc.
The Rwanda National HIV/STD/AIDS Strategic Plan Framework for the MTPHI Periode 1998 to 2001.
R6publique Rwandaise, Ministere de la Sant6 - PNLS, October 1998.
-45 -






2P30                 29°OO'                e130° 50              3doT         t        3d'30f
RWANDA                                      )                           To Ntuegomo
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT                             !          UGANDA
To Rutshuru                                        T A N Z A N I A
PROJECI AREAS                                                To Kabole
* NATIONAL CAPITAL
o PREFECTURE CAPITALS       Z A I R E                     Lake
-   MAIN ROADS                            , Ruhengen  j     l &,Iera
-   PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                            Byumba
* INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                            BYUMBA
Le&. VidKENYA    GIKSNGNYIOR
|  LALKE (NKIVU                                                                            1heN
4 22 u nbuyelTANZANKIAUNGO                                                              21
ZAIRE) 1 47              KIBUYE      rmo                            Mugesera  bungo 
28D30   .jf J             J GIKONGORO >S               S3         iE-RL1weo
TANZANIA m-                                                                                        an udn on~ \BUTOre  B URUNDIyngGkongorothm uleoa
K.       W SSMOZAMBIQUEI  (        \J                                         is.S  0  5  10  15  20  25  30  StatUS  Of aJny  territorj,
CYANGUGU                                     yoh a ,  )                              2 29  STO BUIUmbUr(J  TO K",Jocpnosc
'a  -'~~~~~~~~'  ~ ~ ~ ~                 To Bujumburo  To Kjtego ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B RU D Iboundaries ,   oos
mtnotion   and   an






I



IMAGING
Report No.          24993
Type:      ICR 



