Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2272 RW
                       (Population Project)
                              between
                         RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 3, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2272 RW
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 1991, between RWANDESE REPUBLIC (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
Page  2
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, whenever
used in this Agreement, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health, its
Ministcre de la Sante;
      (b)   "ONAPO" means Office National de la Population, a
parastatal agency of the Borrower having financial and administra-
tive autonomy created by the Borrower's Decret No. 03/81 dated
January 16, 1981;
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the advance granted
by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated March 25, 1991 and May 3, 1991 between the Borrower
and the Association; and
      (f)   "Francs Rwandais" and "FRW" mean the currency of the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 14,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
Page  3
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 2001 and ending February 15, 2031. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2011 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
ONAPO with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and health practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying
out the Project:
      (a)   establish in ONAPO, and thereafter maintain for the
duration of the Project, a project administrative unit (the PAU)
with competent staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications,
experience and terms, including terms of reference, and conditions
of employment satisfactory to the Association, including: (i) a full
time Project Coordinator to head the PAU; (ii) an accountant; and
(iii) a procurement specialist; and
      (b)   appoint a technical advisor to advise the PAU on project
implementation on a contract with a duration of three years.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement with regard to the
provision of funds, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project:
      (a)   open and thereafter maintain for the duration of the
Project in Francs Rwandais and in the name of ONAPO an account (the
Project Account) in a bank acceptable to the Association on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association;
      (b)   deposit into the Project Account an initial amount
equivalent to seven hundred thousand Francs Rwandais (FRW 700,000)
in constant 1991 Franc Rwandais;
      (c)   thereafter deposit into the Project Account not later
than March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 in each year
during Project implementation, the amount necessary to replenish the
Project Account to the initial amount referred to in the preceding
sub-paragraph; and
      (d)   ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account
pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used only to make
payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the
reasonably cost of goods and services for the Project and not
eligible to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from
time to time and in any case not later than November 30 in each year
during Project implementation, starting in 1992, exchange views on
ONAPO's program, plans of action and budget for the following fiscal
year and, without limitation upon the generality of the provisions
of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, jointly review the
progress achieved in carrying out the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association: (i) prior
to each such exchange of views as specified in paragraph (a) of this
Section, and in any case not later than October 31 in each year,
ONAPO's draft program, plans of action and budget for the following
fiscal year; and (ii) as soon as practicable after such exchange of
views, and in any case not later than December 31 in each year,
ONAPO's detailed program, plans of action and budget for the
following year in form and substance satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
      (c)   As one of the joint reviews referred in paragraph (a) of
Page  5
this Section, the Borrower and the Association shall, in 1994, carry
out a joint in-depth mid term review of the Project and its
implementation arrangements. Without limitation upon the generality
of the foregoing, the joint review shall include a detailed
examination of (a) the impact of Parts B.2 and B.3 (a) of the
Project; (b) the overall efficiency of the family planning posts
referred to under Part B.1 of the Project; (c) the efficiency of the
training carried out under the Project; (d) ONAPO's managerial
performance; (e) any technical problems encountered; (f) the need
for additional technical assistance; and (g) financing options for
project recurrent costs.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by March 1, 1992 establish
curricula satisfactory to the Association for the training described
in Part A of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
Page  6
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the Borrower's Decret No. 03/81 dated January 16, 1981
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial
and administrative condition or autonomy of ONAPO or its ability to
carry out the Project; and
      (b)   that the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of ONAPO or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has appointed to the PAU the staff referred
to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement and has contracted the
advisor referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of
this Agreement has been made into the Project Account; and
      (c)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association a master
plan for the training to be carried out under the Project.
      Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for health of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministcre de la Sante
            B.P. 84
            Kigali, Rwanda
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
Page  7
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                         By /s/ Aloys Uwimana
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Contraceptives             3,180,000        100%
(2) Equipment,                1,700,000         100% of foreign
    vehicles, teaching                          expenditures and
    materials and                               85% of local
    supplies                                    expenditures
(3) Consultants'               5,770,000        100% of foreign
    services, training,                         expenditures and
    studies and re-                             85% of local
    search                                      expenditures
(4) Incremental                 1,410,000       100% of foreign
    operating costs                             expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(5) Refunding of Project         520,000        Amount due pur-
    Preparation Advance                         suant to Section
                                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(6) Unallocated                1,920,000
Page  8
                              __________
         TOTAL                14,500,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means the
incremental operating costs of ONAPO and the PAU related to the
Project and in respect of vehicle maintenance and fuel, field travel
and equipment maintenance, utilities and communications but
excluding salaries and stipends.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to reduce the total
fertility rate in the territory of the Borrower by increasing demand
for, and access to, family planning services and by improving the
quality and efficiency of family planning service delivery; (b) to
improve maternal and child health and decrease maternal and child
mortality and morbidity related to low birth intervals and to
extremes of maternal age (below 15 years and above 35 years); and
(c) to integrate demographic and family planning issues into cross-
sectoral development activities.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Improvement of Quality and Efficiency of Family Planning
            Services
1.    Training MOH's and ONAPO's health personnel such as medical
assistants, nurses, nurse-aids and auxiliary staff in:
      (a)   managerial techniques to be used in establishing family
planning clinics in health centers;
      (b)   communication techniques such as first interviews with
potential contraceptive users, counselling, follow-up of users,
strategies for promotion of contraceptive use and other one-on-one
communication skills;
      (c)   appropriate use of modern contraceptive technologies;
      (d)   outreach activities including supervision of community
based volunteers; and
      (e)   integration of family planning services into maternal
and child health services.
2.    Strengthening supervision of family planning services delivery
and acquisition of vehicles and supplies for this purpose.
3.    Strengthening MOH's health and family planning education
services at its health facilities by reorganizing education sessions
in such facilities, developing health and population messages using
Page  9
a marketing approach, and acquisition of teaching materials,
equipment and supplies.
4.    Improving contraceptive supply and management through:
      (a)   acquisition of contraceptives; and
      (b)   strengthening of ONAPO's and MOH's management of
contraceptive procurement and storage.
Part B:     Expansion and Promotion of Family Planning Services
1.    Strengthening existing, and establishing new, family planning
posts including acquisition of equipment, contraceptives and medical
supplies; and training of staff of such posts.
2.    Utilization of a network of community based volunteers for
promoting demand for family planning services and for community
based distribution of contraceptives including training of such
volunters and acquisition of vehicles and motor bicycles for
supervision of such volunteers.
3.    Design and implementation of targeted information, education
and communication (IEC) strategies including:
      (a)   introducing population and family planning issues in the
curricula of preschool, primary school, secondary school and higher
education establishments;
      (b)   introducing population issues in women's groups and
associations through organization of workshops and seminars;
      (c)   training ONAPO staff and multisectoral personnel
including teachers and social workers in population and family
planning issues; and
      (d)   organizing "Population Week", an annual event during
which the general public will be sensitized to population and family
planning issues through, among other things, media events, songs,
plays, banners, brochures and contests.
Part C:  Studies, Research and Multisectoral Activities
1.    Consolidation of ONAPO's data base through research on, among
other things, migration patterns, and post-census surveys on
maternal mortality and development of an information system to
access and monitor the impact of family planning activities.
2.    Developing multisectoral activities, including, but not
limited to, seminars and workshops for higher level staff involved
in development activities, associations, labor groups, youth
organizations and agricultural extension workers in order to
sensitize and educate the public on population and family planning
issues.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
Page  10
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment, educa-
tional and training materials shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Rwanda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $300,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association.
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association, provided that procurement of vehicles shall be limited
to contractors for having facilities for after-sale servicing and
able to supply spare parts.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Page  11
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Page  12
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
