Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8621
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1940-BAR)
p
APRIL 30, 1990
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a resticted ditibudon and may be used by redpient ony in the pedoname of
their offkid dutie  Its contents may not othewie be dsdosed witoWoWdd Bank autborzaitlm.



TOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THM WORLD SANK
Wash,wton. DC 2043)
U.S A
OUv ad 0w.tmG.ua
0lo w onm-oto
April 30, 1990
MENORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Barbados
Power Project (Loan 1940-BAR)
A.ttached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Barbados - Pover Project (Loan 1940-BAR)" prepared by the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
A ''                       a.
Attachment
Tb documnt ha a etricted dibuton and may be use by recimns on  te peoance
ofthw offcbW duds ItS cooteom may not oherw   be dacblosd withot Wowld Bank authoi,tbn.



FOR OMIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1940-BAR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
pale
Preface .............................................. 1
Evaluation Summary ...................................                                     ii
I.     PART  I
Background ...........................................                                      1
Project Objectives and Description ...................                                      1
Project Design and Organization ......................                                      3
Project Implementation ...............................                                      3
Project Results ......................................                                      3
Project Sustainability ...............................                                      4
Bank Performance .....................................                                      4
Borrower Performance .................................                                      5 
Project Relationships ................................                                      5
Consulting Services ..................................                                      5
Project Documentation and Data .......................                                      6
II.      PART  II
Borrower's Report .................................... t
Introduction .........................................                                    11
Project Preparation and Analysis .....................                                    15
Project Implementation, Operation and Costs ..........                                    30
Operating Performance ................................                                    44
Financial Performance ................................                                     SO
Institutional Performance ............................                                    58
Conclusions ..........................................                                    61
Attachments
III   PART III
Related Bank Loans ...................................                                    88
Project Timetable ....................................                                    89
Loan Disbursements ...................................                                     90
Project Implementation ...............................                                     91
Project Cost and Financing ...........................                                     92
Investment Program ...................................                                    93
Project Results                                    .                .                      94
A. Direct Benefits .................................                                    94
B. Economic Impact .................................                                   94
C. Financial Impact ................................                                    95
D. Studies .........................................                                    96
Status of Covenants                                   .               .                    97
A. Staff Inputs ....................................                                    98
B. Missions ........................................                                    99
ANNEXES
Annex 1. Calculation of IER .......................                                   100
Annex 2. Financial Tables .......................... 101-104
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1940-BAR)
PREFAC?
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Power Project in
Barbados for which Loan 1940-BAR in the amount of US$6.0 million was approved
on June 1, 1981. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1987. The Loan was not totally
disbursed and the last disbursement was on November 4, 1987.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Division,
Country Department III of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower, (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on a mission to the field;
the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1940-BAR)
EV'ALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       In the late 1970's the Government of Barbados requested Bank
assistance in financing part of the capital investment of Barbados Light
and Power Company Ltd (BLPC), in view of BLPC's weak financial position and
difficulty In attracting sufficient capital from traditional commercial
sources. The Bank participated in financing distribution works and a
number of studies totalling an estimated US$6.0 million at the time of
project appraisal. Multilateral, bi-lateral and suppliers' credit offers
were used by BLPC in financing the generation and transmission additions
included in BLPC's 1980-85 investment program (Part I, para. 1 and 2).
These credit offers materialized after the Bank made a favorable appraisal
of BLPC's investment program.
Objectives
2.       The project was part of BLPC's 1980-85 BLPC investment program,
the principal obiectives of which were (Part I, para. 3)s
(a) to expand the existing generation, transmission and
distribution system to meet projected electricity demand
growth;
(b) to reduce fuel consumption by improving the average system
plant heat rate;
(c) to improve transmission and distribution system by utilitsiag
economically designed power lines;
(d) to improve system operation; and
(e) to maximize use of indigenous energy resources.
Implementation Experience
3.       The 1980-85 investment program was well designed by BIPC on a
moderate extrapolation (7.6Z) of the annual load growth achieved ptlor to
1980 (11%), but it was necessary for BLPC to quickly adjust the investment
program to the sharp decrease of load growth (average 3.4X) in the period
1980-85 by delaying part of the power generation additions and some
transmission and distribution facilities beyond 1985, (Part I para. 5.01
and 5.02). This also led BLDC to cancel US$2 million from the US$6 mdlllon
Bank loan in 1986, and part of other bilateral and multilateral loos (Part
1, para. 5.03).



- iii -
4.       BLPC's performance was good during project implementation and the
investment program was effectively completed at its revised level (Part I
para. 9). The project financed by the Bank was completed with 2 years
delay at a cost of US$2.78 million below the US$7.99 million estimated at
appraisal (Part III, para. 5). Consulting firms performed well in carrying
out the studies. As it turned out, the Government did not have occasion to
avail itself of the recommendations made in the studies aimed at improving
the Operations of the Public Utility Board and the criteria for fixing
electricity tariffs (Part I, para. 6.04).  This was because no Board
hearings on the power sector have been held since 1982. Following the
sharp increase of electricity rates approved by those hearings, BLPC's
financial position remained good due to lower fuel prices and a reduced
investment program compared to that expected at project appraisal.
Therefore, no further increases were needed. However, BLPC implemented
successfully most of the recommendations of the studies on energy
conservation, tariff analysis, and power system planning (Part I, para.
6.03, 6.05 and 5.02).
Results
5.       BLPC's investment program achieved its principal objectives.  The
program helped to modernize BLPC's power facilities to efficiently meet the
consumer demand for electricity with high service reliability. Demand for
electricity grew at an annual average of 5.42, the plant average heat rate
decreased by 71 and total electricity losses were kept below 91 (Part I,
para. 6.01 and 6.02). Various measures were implemented by the Government
and BLPC to improve energy efficiency (Part I, para 6.03). The financial
position of BLPC was substantially improved as a result of the 451 step
increase of average basic electricity rates in 1982, the steady decrease in
oil prices after 1984, and the outstanding decrease of accounts receivable
to a low 31 days in 1987 (Part III, para. 6.5). Since BLPC tariffs reflect
the cost of service, the gains in efficient use of fuel and lower fuel
prices have been passed through to the customers by decreasing electricity
rates in real terms (Part III, para 6.5).
6.       The financial rate of return of BLPC in the range 5-71, although
below the 81 covenanted value was considered satisfactory by the Bank in
view of the good financial position of BLPC. The internal financial rate
of return achieved by the project was 221,which is substantially higher
than the 13.2 estimated at appraisal. This is attributable to the lower
fuel costs, the use of high-efficiency equipment and the reduced investment
program (Part III, para. 6.4).
Sustainabilitv
7.       It is expected that the benefits of the 1980-87 power investment
program will be maintained throughout the economic life of the facilities
constructed under the program, because BLPC's very high standards of
operation and maintenance practices have contributed to develop a highly
reliable power supply system (Part I, para. 7.01).



- iv -
Findinzs and Lessons
8.       The main lesson learnt is that a well managed power utility, by
quickly adjusting the investment program and financial plan to meet slower
demand growth than expected, can avoid overinvestment in its generation,
transmission and distribution facilities (Part I, para. 5.02). This was
made possible by the natur, of the BLPC investment program; the civil works
were small and needed only shnrt lead times, readily allowing a flexible
response.



PART I
PROJECT COZLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1940-BAR)



BARBADOS
BARBADOS LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY LTD. (BLPC)
LOAN 1940-BAR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
POWER PROJECT
PART I
1.       Project Identity
Project Name:             Power Project
Loan No.                  1940 BAR
Rvp Unit:                 LAC
Country:                  Barbados
Sector:                  Energy
Subsector:               Power
2.       Background
2.01     In 1978, BLPC (an investor-owned company in which 60Z of the
shares are held in Barbados) with the assistance of its consultants -
Canadian International Power Services, Inc., prepared a generation,
transmission and distribution program for the ten year period 1978 to 1987.
At the time of the preparation of the program, BLPC's :inances were weak.
Recognizing the difficulty of attracting sufficient capital from
traditional commercial sources, Government requested Bank assistance in
finauoing BLPC's capital investment program.
2.02     As a consequence, the Bank agreed to finance a part of BLPC's six
year 1980-85 investment program. The largest part of the program consisted
of generating units. BLPC received attractive supplier credit offers for
the installation of low speed diesel units, and it was decided that,
instead of participating in the financing of such units. Bank finance could
best be used for distribution works in addition to a number of studies.
3.       Proiect Objectives and Description
3.01     The project was part of the 80-85 investment program the principal
objectives of which were:
(a)   Expansion of the existing generation, transmission and
distribution system to meet projected energy demands of existing
and new customers throughout the period;
(b)   improvement of the average system plant heat rate to reduce
specific fuel consumption and relative cost per kWh generated;



(c)   improvement of the transmission and distribution systems by
utilization of economic design to keep energy losses at a minimum
consistent with projected demand and fuel prices;
(d)   improvement of system operations by developing an energy
conservation program and developing long range generation and
facilities planning; and
Ce)   maximization of the use of indigenous energy resources such as gas
and bagasse.
BLPC's 1980-85 capital investment program was planned to includes
(a)   the generation expansion program comprising the installation of
two low-speed diesel units of 14 MW each (peaking capacity) in
1982/83, a third 14 MW unit in 1985 and commencement of work on a
fourth 14 MW unit to be completed in 1987;
Cb)   the construction of 15 km of 59 kV transmission lines;
(e)   the construction of two 69124 kV substations, the acquisition of
one mobile substation, and modifications to existing 24 kV
substations;
Id)   the conversion of about 402 km of 11 kV primary feeders to 24 kV;
Ce)   the distribution expansion program including installation of about
60 MVA of distribution transformers, 23.8 MVAR of capacitors,
36,400 meters, 300 street lights and associated additions to the
240 V secondary circuits; and
(f)   improvements and additions to general property including
transportation equipment, bulldings, land and right of ".y.
The Bank-financed portion of the investment program was planned to
include the following:
(a)   24 kV Primary Feeders.  Conversion of about 312 km of 11 kV
primary feeders to 24 kV and replacement of about 21,200 kVA of
existing industrial transformers associated with the conversion.
(b) Distribution Transformers. Installation of about 42,300 kVA of 24
kV/120-240 V distribution transformers.
(c)   Service Drops.  Installation of about 16,500 customer service
connections consisting of about 450 km of 120-240 V conductors
from the secondary pole line to the customers' meters.
(d)   Capacitors.  Installation of about 16.5 MVAR of capacitors to
maintain a system power factor of 0.90.
(e)   Studies.  Consulting services for generation planning, energy
conservation and tariffs, and for PUB operating procedures and PUB
criteria for setting power rates.



-3-
4.       Project Design and Organization
4.01     Project design was well conceived.  The 80-85 investment program
was designed by BLPC and its consultants, CI Power Services, and was based
on the least-cost solution after considering generation expansion
alternatives based on low and medium speed diesel units, extension of the
existing cteam plant and a new coal-fired steam plants. Following Bank
recoumendations and, after further study, BLPC modified its proposed
generation program to include three 12.5 KW low speed diesel units. These
units operate at lower fuel costs than the higher speed units as they use
low grade residual fuel. Suitable alternatives were also considered before
determining the least-cost transmission and distribution program.
4.02     BLPC staff supervised the engineering design for the project
equipment and works which was prepared by consultants. BLPC's staff was
assisted by consultants in the preparation of bidding documents, bid
evaluation and contract awards. BLPC staff performed the installation of
equipment. These arrangements worked well.
5.       Project Implementation
5.01     In the three years prior to project appraisal, the Barbados
economy performed strongly, especially in tourism and manufacturing, and
load growth averaged 112 per annum. The 1980-1985 investment program was
based on a projected slower demand growth of 7.62 per annum. However, in
1980 there was a sharp decline in demand growth to 3.82 per annum and the
average 1980 to 1985 load growth was only 3.4Z. The reduced demand growth
was due to a worldwide recession mainly attributed to oil price increases.
Between 1981 end 1985 industrial production and tourism in Barbados
declined to levels below that of 1980.
5.02     The declining trend in demand was quickly responded to by BLPC and
the nature of the program made it readily adjustable to incremental
implementation. BLPC revised the 80-85 Investment program to the reduced
load growth and in effect extended the implementation period by two years
to 1987. The installation of a third 12.5 MW unit was deferred to 1987 and
some transmission and substation components were deferred indefinitely.
The completion period for the installation of primary feeders, and
capacitors and service drops financed under the Bank loan was extended by
periods of up to three and half years ending in December, 1987, and the
length of the primary feeders was reduced.
5.03     Responding to the reduced funding needs, BLPC cancelled a
Caribbean Development Bank loan intended to finance 69 KV transmission
lines. Construction of the lines was postponed indefinitely. Also, part
of the European Investment Bank loan was cancelled. US$2 million was
cancelled from US$6 million Bank loan in November, 1986.
6.       Project Results
6.01     BLPC's 1980-1987 investment program, of which the project was a
part, achieved its principal objectives (para. 3.01). The program helped
to modernize BLPC's electric system and improved its generation and



- 4 -
distribution operations and also helped to reduce electricity rates. The
program fully met consumer demand for electricity during the period.
Energy sales grew from 282.1 GWh in 1980 to 388 GbWh in 1987, an average
annual growth of 5.42. The number of customers grew from 67,662 to 79,312
during the same period.
6.02     There was an improvement in the average system plant heat rate of
about 72 between 1980 and 1987. This was brought about by the installation
of low speed generating units and the modification of some other units to
operate on low cost residual fuel oil instead of distillate. The
transmission and distribution 3ystem was expanded and line losses were kept
below 92. These factors, combinied with sharply reduced oil prices,
substantially contributed to a 302 reduction in real electricity rates
between 80 and 87.
6.03     As a consequence of the recommendations of the energy conservation
financed under t}.e Project study, various measures to improve energy
efficiency such as a consumer education program, the use of electricity
produced from bagasse and surplus natural gas and exhaust gas were
implemented by Government and BLPC. Several hotels have changed their
lighting fixtures and installed high efficiency lamps, while others have
introduced devices to control airconditioners by disconnecting these when
guests are not in their rooms.
6.04     Two studies relating to the Public Utilities Board (PUB) were
completed under the project, the first to recommend ways to improve PUB's
operating procedures and reduce decision-taking time, and the second to
recommend criteria to be used by PUB for setting power rates. Although the
studies were apparently discussed by various units of Government, no
consensus could be reached as to their recommendations. This issue was
raised regularly by Bank supervision missions. At the time of appraisal,
there was some concern about delays experienced in obtaining PUB's approval
for rate increases. It was expected that further tariff increases would be
needed during project implementation. However, no PUB hearings relating to,
the power sector have been held since those relating to the last rate
increase in 1982 and it is not expected that any further hearings will be
held in the near future.
6.05     The marginal cost tariff study of BLPC's tariff structure was
completed in 1982. This study provided a useful basis when considering
changes in BLPC's tariff structure. However, Government and BLPC have not
considered it timely to implement any tariff structure changes up to now.
7.       Project Sustainability
7.01     BLPC's operation and maintenance practices are of a very high
standard. Plant outages are minimal. Consequently, it is expected that
the benefits of the 1980-1987 investment program will be maintained
throughout the economic life of the facilities constructed under the
program.
8.       Bank Performance
8.01     Although the US$6 million Bank loan represented only 42 of the
finance required for BLPC's 1980-1987 investment program, it would have



been difficult to attract adequate financing for the program without the
Bank' s participation. As a result of the Bank's participation, other
financial institutions such as the European Investment Bank, the Caribbean
Development Bank and the Commonwealth Development Corporation were
attracted to the financing of the investment program.
8.02     The Bank made some useful suggestions to BLPC, which assisted in
the determination of the least-cost generation program and led eventually
to the inclusion of low speed diesel units, using lower priced residual
fuel oil, as part of the program.
8.03     There were six supervision missions during the 80-87 project
implementation period. This number was adequate as there were no major
imple=e-atation problems.
9.       Borrower Performance
9.01     BLPC is a well organized company with a competent and effective
management and well trained technical personnel. Much emphasis has been
placed on employee training.
9.02     As expected, BLPC's performance was good during project
implementation  and the investment program was effectively completed.    As
noted in para. 5.02, BLPC promptly revised its investment program when it
became clear that demand growth would be less than the appraisal forecast,
and project construction as completed in accordance with the new
implementation schedule.
10.      Project Relationships
10.01    This was the first Bank loan in the Barbados Power Sector.  Good
working relationships were established between BLPC, the Government and the
Bank in the early stages of Bank involvement. There was an atmosphere of
mutual confidence and understanding between the Bank and BLPC which
continued through project appraisal and implementation, and this was
helpful in resolving the issues arising during this period.
10.02    Good relationships were also maintained between the Bank missions
and Government officials.
11.      Consulting Services
11.01    The five studies required under the Project were all
satisfactorily carried out by consulting firms.
Stone and Webster (USA)
(a)   Generating Planning;
(b)   Electric Energy Conservation;
(c)   Tariff Structure.



-6-
Peat, Harwick, Mitchell and Co. (Canada)
(a)   Operations of the Public Utility Board;
(b)   PUB criteria for Tariffs.
12.      Project Documentation and Data
12.01    The project's legal agreements were adequate in reflecting the
Bank's interest in achieving satisfactory project execution. The SAR was
comprehensive and well prepared and was a useful reference document for the
Bank and BLPC during project implementation.
12.02    BLPC prepared a Project Completion Report using the former Bank
guidelines. This proved to be an extremely useful background document for
the preparation of the PCR. BLPC promptly provided other more recent
information required for the PCR.



PART II
BORROWER'S REPORT
BARBAOS
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1940-BAR)



- 8 -
THE BARBADOS LIGHT & POWE CO., LTD.
SYSTEM EXPANSION PROGRAMME 1980-85
PROJECT COMPLETION REPRT
I



-9-
THE BARBADOS LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY LI[ITRD
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.        INTRODUCTION
1. General
2. History
II.       PROJECT PREPARATION AND ANALYSIS
1. Origin
2. Preparation and Justification
3. Loan Covenants
4. Rate Adjustment
5. Project Description
III.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.-OPERATION AND COSTS
1. Project Start-up
2. Revision
3. Implementation Schedule
4. Procurement
5. Costs and Disbursements
6. Operations
7. Performance of Consultants, Contractors and
Suppliers.
TrV.      OPERATITNG PERFORMANCE
1. Market
2. Project's Role
3. Other Factors
V.        FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
1. Tariffs.
2. Sales Volume
3. Revenues and Operating Expenses
4. Net Fixed Assets Service
5. Revaluation of Assets
6. Depreciation Rates
7. Liquidity Problems
8. Debt Equity Ratios
9. Rate of Return
10. Construction Expenditure



- 10 -
11. Debt Service Coverage
12. Extent of Financing of Construction
Expenditure through Internal Cash
Generation and Equity Contribution
13. Inflation and Exchange Rates
14. Exchange Rates
15. Tariff Structure
VI.       INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
1. Management and Organisational Effectiveness
2. Growth
3. Staff Recruitment, Training and Development
VII.      CONCLUSIONS
ATTACHMENTS
TABLE 1   -  Project Implementation Schedule
TABLE 2   -  Expansion Programme Suamary Report
TABLE 3   -  Capacity and Energy Balance
TABLE 4   -  Actual and Projected Energy and
Power Requirements.
TABLE 5.1 -  BLPC Key Financial Indicators
TABLE 5.2 -  BLPC Income Statements
TABLE 5.3 -  BLPC Sources and Uses of Funds
TABLE 5.4 -  BLPC Balance Sheets
FIG: 1    -  Projected System Development
FIG: 2    -  Actual System Development



- 11 -
THE BARBADOS LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY LIMITED
SYSTEM EXPANSION PROGRAMME 1980 - 85
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INTRODUCTION
1 . General
The Barbados Light and Power Company is an investor
owned  electric  utility  with 60 %-of its shares being
held by more than 2800 Barbadian investors.
The Company generates and distributes electricity and
provides ancillary services to some 78,000 domestic,
industrial and commercial users, and operates a non-
exclusive franchise which is embodied in the Electric
Light and Power Act of the Laws of Barbados.   The non-
exclusive  franchise,  which was extended  for a period
of 42 years  from 1986,  gives the Company the right to
distribute and sell electric energy throughout the is-
land of Barbados.   Electricity  rates  are  set  by  a



- 12 -
Public Utilities Board in accordance with the Public
Utilities Act.
As at December 31, 1986, the Company had total assets
valued in excess of $307 million,   with $69 million of
interest bearing long-term  debt  outstanding.    Total
operating revenue for the 12 month period ended Decem-
ber 31, 1986 was $99 million resulting in a net income
after taxes of $5.1 million.
2.   HistorY
The Barbados Light and Pover Company Limited was incor-
porated in the Islaud of Barbados on May 6, 1955, to
acquire by an agreement dated March 19, 1955, from the
Barbados  Electric  Supply  Corporation  Limited,   the
latter's  rights   to   the   business   of   supplying
electricity  in  the  Island  of Barbados.   On July 1,
1955, all the assets of the Barbados Electric Supply
Corporation Limited were transferred to the Company.
In 1963 Canadian International Power Company purchased
a majority share interest in The Barbados Light and
Power  Company.    At  that time power was generated by
diesel engines and two small steam turbines with com-



.- 13 -
bined   installed   generating   capacity   of   13,581
kilowatts.   There were 26,400 customers using 45  mil-
lion kWh per annum with a combined peak demand of
10,850 kilowatts.
Many improvements were introduced to increase the ef-
ficiency  of the Company's operations.   Line construc-.
tion and reinforcement work was carried out and gener-
ating plant additions were made as needed to cater to
growth in the use of electricity averaging 15 percent
per annum.
While the decade of the 60's was very good for the Com-
pany, the 1970's were difficult years highlighted by
continuously rising costs and a series of unusual en-
gineering  problems.    The  October  1973  World  Fuel
Crisis, subsequent temporary fuel shortage and high es-
calating  fuel  prices  had  a  great  impact  on   the
Company's operations. In 1974 the reduced availability
of fuel for power generation and the reduction in
demand  of  electrical  power  through  public   appeal
resulted in a negative growth rate for sale of electri-
cal energy from the Company's system.
In 1976 a new 40,000 kW steam plant at Spring Garden



-14-
went into operation.   Before the start up of  the  new
steam plant, the Company experienced a series of
mechanical failures on its diesel generators as well as
on a gas turbine generator. This reduced the Company's
available generating capacity from 60,600 kilowatts to
30,000 kilowatts which was 4,500 kilowatts short of the
island's  peak  demand.   As a result,  the Company was
forced to institute a power rationing programme.    Ea-
gineering difficulties in the initial operations of the
new generating plant caused a series of service inter-
ruptions of recurring annoyance to customers.
The year 1977 was an  unusually  difficult  one.    New
rates, determined by the Public Utilities Board, proved
insufficient to provide the necessary cash flows for
capital expenditures.
The Public Utilities Board accepted the Company's
proposed reduction in fuel charges made possible by the
new steam plant, but granted less than the applied-for
increases in basic rates.   The Company's requested in-
crease was cut from 3 cents to 1 cent for Domestic and
from 5 cents to 3- cents for Industrial and Commercial
users.



- 15 -
The    rate  increase  granted  by the Public Utilities
Board in 1977 failed to give the Company the relief
which was urgently needed at that time.   The financial
position deteriorated and by 1979 a critical state had
been reached where the Company could not meet the mini-
mum earnings coverage terms of its Debenture Trust
Deed.   Accordingly,  the Company was unable  to  raise
loans for urgently needed expansion, and essential
equipment could not be purchased.
Further,   the    rate  problems  during  1977  -  1979
resulted in postponement of essential construction
work. This loss of valuable construction time affectAd.
the Company's ability to provide its normal high
quality service.   In November of 1979, the Company was
required to enforce a period of power rationing due to
major generating problems.
II        PROJECT PREPARATION AND ANALYSIS
1.   2gOr.in
In 1978 the Company with the assistance of its consult-
ants, C.I. Power Services Ltd., prepared a generation



- 16 -
planning report covering the ten year period 1978 to
1987, but in view of the poor financial position in
1978, due to the inadequate rates, it was not possible
to obtain financing from traditional commercial sources
for any expansion work.
Following discussions with the government concerning
the Company's financial and engineering difficulties,
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment hereinafter called the World Bank was approached
for a loan.
2.   Preparation and Justification
The World Bank indicated that due to sectoral and
country priority considerations, any involvement on
their part would be limited.   As discussions proceeded
it became apparent to Company management that if the
World Bank, as a development financing institution, ap-
proved a loan to the Company it could be expected that
their  involvement    would  go  well beyond commercial
financing matters. Moreover , the benefit of World Bank
appraisal of the project and committment to its financ-
ing, even with a relatively small amount, together with



- 17 -
certain country guarantees and covenants in accordance
with  its  charter,  would   reassure other lenders who
would then be attracted to the project.
Other development financing institutions - the European
Investment Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, and
the  Commonwealth  Development  Corporation  - were ap-
proached and they all indicated interest in World Bank
participation and in providing  financing    assistance
for an  expansion programme.
The  Company  obtained  commitments  for  loans to help
finance an expansion programme on a project basis sub-
ject to eligibility, having regard to the different
charters, restrictions and policies of the banks, and
on condition that loans be arranged for all projects
included in the programme with approximately 70 percent
of the cost being funded by external loans and ap-
proximately 30 percent with counterpart financing from
local sources.
The banks indicated that commitments would also be
expressly  conditional  .pon  confirmation   that   all



- l8 -
parties to the agreements including the guarantors
would fulfil their obligations, and that the Company
would seek rate relief in accordance with financial
covenants to be negotiated.                a
In February 1980 the Company sought a further rate
review.    Due to inadequate earning.,  the Company was
unable to meet certain coverage tests for new equipment
loans.  In  its  decision  of  May  1980,   the  Public
Utilities Board ordered an increase in customer basic
rates.   An appeal to the Supreme Court-against tha May
1980 decision was made by an objector to the rate
changes. Following a hearing in July 1980, this appeal.
was disallowed by the Court.
Meanwhile  the Company discussed its plans  for  gener-
ation and distribution expansion with the World Bank
and also held discussions with suppliers of equipment.
A  generation expansion study was performed   utilizing
General Electric's Optimized Generation Planning (O0P)
programme on their large computers in Schenectady, New
York.   This programme combines system reliability cal-
culatious, and operating, maintenance and investment
costs to determine the least cost expansion programme



-19 -
for a target loss-of-load  probability  (LOUP).    Sen-
sitivity studies were performed for variations in fuel
costs,   load  growth,   investment  costs  and  systen
reliability.
A  revised  generation  expansion  plan,   based  on  a
projected load growth of about 8S per year, recommended
the installation of two 14 MW low speed diesels in
1982/83, and a third in 1985.
A study was also carried out of the transmission and
distribution system with the assistance of the consult-
ants, C.I. Power Services, and an expansion plan
developed for the period 1980-8.5.
The overall system expansion proposals were designed
to meet the following principle objectives:
(a) Expansion of the existing generation, transmission
and distribution system to meet projected energy
demands of existing and new customers throughout
the period;
(b)  Improvement of the average system plant heat  rate
to  reduce  specific fuel consumption and relative



- 20 -
cost per kWh generated;
(c) Improvement of the transmission and distribution
system by utilization of economic design to keep
energy  losses  at  a  minimum   consistent   with
proJected demand and fuel prices;
(d) Improvement of system operations by developing an
energy conservation programme and developing long
range generation facilities planning; and
(e) Maximize the use of indigenous energy resources
such as gas and bagasse.
The capital investment programme which was developed
for the period 1980 - 1985 included the following:
(i) The generation expansion programme comprising the
installation of two low-speed diesel units of 14
MW each (peaking capacity) in 1982/83, a third 14
MW unit in 1985 and commencement of work on a
fourth 14 MW unit to be completed in 198?;
(ii)   The  construction  of  15 km of 69 kV transmission
lines;



- 21 -
(iii)   The construction of two 69/24 kV substations,  the
acquisition   of   one   mobile  substations   and
modifications to existing 24 kV substations;
(iv) The conversion of about 402 km of 11 kV primary
feeders to 24 kV;
(v) The distribution expansion programme including in-
stallation of about 60 MVA of distribution trans-
formers, 23.8 MYAR of capacitors, 36,400 meters,
300 street lights and associated additions to the
115/230 V secondary circuits; and
(vi) Improvements and additions to general property in-
cluding transportation equipment, buildings, land
and rights-of-way.
The estimated cost of the overall expansion programme
was almost US$ 100 million (BdsS 200 million).
With the participation of the World BDank in the
Company's financing plan and the support of the Govern-
ment of Barbados, a series of loan agreements were con-



- 22 -
cluded.
The   World   Bank  reviewed  the  Company's  expansion
programme and agreed that it met all aspects of the
Bank's "Lowest Cost Alternative" criterion (tbat is,
the most economical plan consistent with the purchase
of  appropriate  equipment).    The Bank invited repre-
sentatives of the Company and the Barbados Government
to meet in Washington to negotiate terms of a loan con-
tract, the Government of Barbados acting as guarantor
of the loan.   Following the necessary approvals of the
Public  Utilities  Board,   and  the  Exchange  Control
Authority, the World Bank loan agreement for US$6 mil-
lion was approved in 1980 and signed in Washington D.C.
on February 19, 1981.
Also in 1980, agreement was reached with the European
Investment Bank for a loan of five million units of ac-
count,  approximately equal to BDS$1l million.    Under
this terms of this agreement the European Investment
Bank provided an interest subsidy to be used to assist
with-  rural   electrification   according  to  certain
criteria agreed between the Bank and the Company.
In 1081, an agreement was signed with Svenska Rand-



- 23 -
elabanken of Sweden for a 12-year loan of U.S.S26.6
million, approximately equal to BDSS53.2 million at 9.1
percent interest to finance 85 percent of the cost of
generating   plant.   .  It  was  a  condition  of  the
availability of the funds that guarantees be provided
to Svenska Handelsbanken as a continuing security for
the Company's oDligations in respect to the first 16
repayment  installments  together  with interest.   The
Royal Bank of Canada (London) Limited agreed to act as
agent for a number of prime commercial banks who
provided these guarantees.
The Commonwealth Development Corporation gave approval
in  1981  to a loan of five million pounds sterling  to
assist with the financing of the distribution expansion
programme and for general corporate purposes.   To con-
clude the financing package, an agreement was entered
into in 1985 with Sparbankernas/Swedbank of Sweden for
a loan of US$8.5 million for 70% of the cost of ex-
tending generating plant as planned for in the expan-
sion programme.



- 24 -
3.   Loan Covenants
The loan which has been agreed between the Company and
IBRD (World Bank) carries the unconditional guarantee
of the Government of Barbados, and in addition to its
obligations as primary obligor under the guarantee, the
Government has covenanted that it will not take any ac-
tion which would prevent or interfere with the perfor-
mance of the Company's obligations under the loan
agreement (some of which are.summarised in (a) through
(d) below) and will take or cause to be taken all
reasonable action necessary or appropriate to enable
BLPC to perform its obligations under the loan.
(a) The Company covenanted to take all necessary
actions, including implementation of tariff
adjustments to produce revenue sufficient to
yield an annual rate of return on the net
value of fixed assets in operation which is
satisfactory to the World Bank.
Cb) The Company covenanted to continue to main-
tain the fuel adjustment cost component of
its tariffs, which enables it to recover



- 25 -
through tariff variations any costs resulting
from fuel price increases.
(c) The Company covenanted to offer shares for
sale to nationals or residents of Barbados,
or to the  Government  of  Barbados.    Addi-
tionally, under the guarantee instrument, the
Government of Barbados agreed to take up al-
lotments of shares not subscribed for through
the public offering for the new share issues.
(d)  It will be an event of default under the loan
agreement, should any change be made in the
Electric Light and Power Act which would
materially affect the business of the Com-
pany, its management, operations, etc.
4.   Rate AdJustment
A further application for increased rates was
filed with the Public Utilities Board on January
29, 1982, to cover rising operating costs and to
generate internally sufficient funds to contribute
to the expansion programme.  In August 1982   this
application was turned down, on the grounds that



- 26 -
the Company had not proved its case. The Company
filed a now application on September 10, 1982.
In May 1983 the Public Utilities Board ordered an
increase of 7.5 cents per kWh on Basic electricity
rates, effective November 15, 1982. The effect on
consumer bills was moderated by increasing use of
residual fuel to generate electricity with a con-
sequential   reduction   in   fuel   charges    on
electricity bills. At the time of preparing this
report these rates were still effective.
5.   ProJect Description
The programme was separated into various project
packages suitable for the financing available from
various agencies:
(a) Generatint Plant - Sunnliers Credit through
Svenska Handelabanken of Sweden.
Two 14 MW Low Speed Diesel Generating Units
in 1982/83, a third in 1985 and a fourth in
1987.



- 27 -
The first 2 units were to be proceeded with,
for  commissioning  in 1982/83.   Final deci-
sions on subsequent units would be made later
depending on load growth during the period.
(b) 69 kV Transmission Lines - Caribbean
Development Bank
15 km of 69 kV transmission lines from Spring
Garden Generating Station to two new 69/24 kV
Substations near the Port in Bridgetown, and
at Wotton, Christ Church.
(c) Substations and SCADA Equipment - Euronean
lavestment Bank.
Construction of two 69/24 substations at Port
and Votton and development of a 69 kV substa-
tion at Spring Garden Generating Plant.   Ex-
pansion and modification of existing 24 kV
substations.    Acquisition  of a 69/24/11 kV
mobile  transformer  to  back-up  the   power
transformers  at  the main substations.   In-
stallation of a Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition system (SCADA) to provide control



- 28 -
and monitoring, from a central Control Room
at Garrison, of feeder Circuit Breakers and
equipment    at    distribution   substations
throughout the island.
(d) Distribution and General - Commonwealth
Development Bank
Routine distribution work not specifically
defined but including purchase of meters,
construction of primary and secondary dis-
tribution lines, strengthening of existing
lines, and acquisition of transport and con-
struction equipment.
Miscellaneous    generation    and    general
property.
(e) Distribution and Studies - World Bank
The World Bank agreed  to    fund  a  project
comprising distribution conversion and expan-
sion,   together   with  certain  studies  as
described herebelow.



- 29 -
(i)       24 RV Primary Feeders.    Conversion of about
312 km of 11 kV primary feeders to 24 kV and
replacement of about 21,200 kVA  of  existing
industrial transformers associated with the
conversion.
(ii)    Distribution Transformers.   Installation  of
about 42,300 kVA of 24 kV/120-240 V distribu-
tion transformers.
*iii)   Service Drops.   Installation of about 16,500
customer service connections Consisting of
ab6ut 450 km of 115-230 V conductors from the
secondary pole line to the customers' meters.
(iv)    Capacitors Installation of about 16.5 MVAR of
capacitors to maintain a system power factor
of 0.90.
(v)     Studies  Consulting  services  for generation
planning. energy conservation and tariffs (60
staff months), and for PUB operating proce-
dures  and  PUB  criteria   for setting power
rates (15 staff months).



- 30 -
III                 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION4 OPERATION ANn COSTS
1.   Pro3iect Start-Un
The World Bank loan agreement was signed on
February  19,  1981.    The  project had been
clearly  identified  during   the   appraisal
process and work was already in progress on
the preparation of the specifications and
tender    documents.   for   procurement   of
materials.
One of the conditions for effectiveness of
the loan agreement was that the Company had
signed a contract satisfactory to the Bank
for two base load low speed diesel units.
Tenders had been invited in June 1980 and
after careful evaluation a letter of tntent
had been issued on October 28, 1980, to
Gotaverken Motor AB of Sweden for the turnkey
supply of a 25 MW low speed diesel power
plant.   The formal contract  was  signed  on
February 27, 1981.



- 31-w
2.   Revision
The  expansion programme had been prepared in
1979 based on a projected load growth of ap-
proximately 8% per year.   Almost imediately
there was a steep increase in the world oil
prices by the OPEC cartel and economic condi-
tions worldwide went through a depressed
period during the early 1980'.. Barbados did
not escape this situation and as the economy
suffered so did the sales of electricity.
Average growth  between  1979  and  1985  was
3.5*.
This   trend  was  quickly  identified,   the
programme reviewed and projects rescheduled.
The 69 kV transmission lines and associated
substations were deferred and have not been
necessary to date.
Additional low speed diesel generating units
had been projected for 1986 and 1987.   These
were reviewed and the third 12.5 MV unit was
deferred to  early 1987.    A  new  expansion



- 32 -
study will identify the need for future gen-
erating plant.
Distribution line conversions under the World
Bank project were also rescheduled. The Wil-
dey, Banks, and Salter/Dukes feeders whicb
had been planned for early in the programme
were completed but others have been deferred.
The remaining Bank items proceeded basically
as scheduled with the routine distribution
transformers, capacitors and service drops
being   extended  with  the  Bank's  approval
beyond 1985 to include 1986 and 1987.
3.   Implementation Schedule
The implementation schedule for the World
Bank financed projects was as shown in Table
I.
4.   Procurement
Materials for World Bank and BIB financed
projects were purchased according to the pro-
cedures set out in the banks' Guidelines for



- 33 -
Procurement. The Company's previous purchas-
ing procedures were generally to request com-
petitive bids from 3 - 5 selected suppliers
with whose products the Company was familiar.
This method only required specifying techni-
cal details and other basic information and
has been found quick and efficient.
The Bank's procedures requiring international
competitive bidding mean that a lot more ef-
fort is needed in the procurement process.
Detailed specifications and bidding documents
have to be prepared. Notification and adver-
tisement of up-coming contracts have to be
made to the international community involving
all member countries of the Bank (or EITD.
The need for the Bank's procedures is ap-
preciated since they ensure competitive  bid-
ding and equal opportunity to tender by sup-
pliers from all member countries.   For  this
project however, the Bank financed items
generally were relatively small quantities of
routine distributioL material.    Prices  ob-



- 34 -
tained were not generally better than under
the Company's previous purchasing arrange-
ments and the process was more involved ard
time consuming.
The procurement of the Low Speed Diesel Plant
was by competitive tenders from selected bid-
ders. There are few low speed diesel licen-
sors.    These  firms  were -issued  a  briet
guideline specification giving the general
design parameters, output requirements, site
details and fuel specification and requested
to submit tenders for turnkey contracts, in-
cluding a five year maintenance agreement for
the  equipment.    The  Bank  recommended the
turnkey approach and the Company has been
very pleased with the results of this form of
contract.
5.   Costs and Disbursements
A summary of projects, and their costs,
during ,the period of the expansion programme
is given in Table 2.



- 35 -
Drawdown of the World Bank loan was as shown
below:
LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
EQUIV
DATE        $US           $CDN         SBDS
1982-12  639,594.67   663,511.06  2,182,244.00
1984-05  641,468.25   858,125.22  2,597*561.00
1984-10  267,763.45   168,344.95    786,963.00
1986-02  291,666.20    11,517.40    597,982.00
1986-11        0.00   415,861.00    596,858.00
TOTALS 1,840,482.57 2,017,362.63  6,761,608.00
6.   Operations
Performance of all items in the expansion
programme have been very satisfactory.



- 36 -
The Company has a mix of different types of
generating plant. Steam turbines, a gas tur-
bine,   low  speed  diesels,   medium   speed
diesels, and high speed diesels take care of
the various loads and coDditions that will
occur.
Generally speaking the steam plant, and the
low speed diesel plant which burn low grade
residual fuel are used to supply base load.
These base load units ar. high capital cost
units with the lowest fuel and maintenance
c-osts. They can operate continuously for long
periods.   These units are run 24 hours a day
to supply the base load requirements of the
system.
The intermediate load plant are the older and
less efficient base load plant which have-
been superceded by more efficient plant and
are now used on a daily basis for say 8 - 14
hours a day when the system load exceeds the
base load capacity.



- 37 -
Peaking plant, such as the gas turbine, have
high fuel cost but low capital cost and are
normally on stand-by but can be started
rapidly in an emergency if needed.
The Company is noW in a position to produce
almost ail of the electricity consumed in
Barbados from residual fuel burning gener-
ating plant, and Barbadian consumers are now
enjoying electricity at prices which are
among the lowest in the Caribbean.
The low speed dienel  generating  units  have
operated reliably and efficiently.   They are
the most fuel efficient units on our system,
using the same low grade residual fuel oil as
burnt in the steam plant boilers but at about
two thirds the specific fuel consumption.
Over the first four years of operation these
units    have    achieved   an   87   percent
availability record with a forced outage rate
of less than 2 percent. Operations of these
units    have   significantly   reduced   the
Company's fuel costs.



- 38 -
In March 1985 an 1100 KW Waste Neat Turbo-
Alternator Generating Unit was added to the
Low Speed Diesel Plant to utilise steam
produced by the exhaust gases from the diesel
engines. This increased the electricity gen-
erated by this plant by about 4X at no addi-
tional fuel cost.
The SCADA equipment has been of tremendous
benefit in the operations of the Distribution
Department.    It  has  improved  response to
problems on the system, reduced outage times
following feeder trips, and by providing in-
formation  on  feeder  loading  and   voltage
levels has led to more efficient operations.
A new substation at Wotton, in Christ Church,
and the expansion of other substations have
improved the capacity of the system and, with
the conversion of some distribution feeders
from 11,000 volt to 24,000 volt operation,
losses have been reduced from 9.7% of net
generation in 1980 to 8.8% in 1986.
Procurement of the mobile substation trans-



_ 39 -
former has provided a back-up unit for all
the major power transformers on the system.
It is a stand-by unit and to date there has
not been a failure of a substation trans-
former requiring it to be employed.   However
it    has  proved  very useful during planned
maintenance of substation transformers and
substation expansion work.
During the appraisal stage the Bank team had
queried the possibility of the sugar industry
producing electricity from excess bagasse.
This was discussed with Barbados Sugar In-
dustries Ltd. and a pilot scheme initiated at
Foursquare Factory  in  St.  Philip.    Three
sugar factories are now feeding electricity
into the grid.   They are paid the equivalent
of the Company's fuel adjustment charge for
electricity supplied.   In  1986  almost  2.5
million kwh produced by the sugar industry
from excess bagasse were purchased by the
Company.
In 1980 the Company completed modifications
to the Steam Plant boilers to enable up to



- 40 -
approximately   1.5  million  cubic  feet  of
natural gas per day to be burnt in the
boilers.          The    National    Petroleum
Corporation's supply of natural gas at times
exceeds the demaud of their regular cus-
tomers. BLPC's use of this gas reduces vent-
ing of the excess gas and lowers fuel oil im-
ports.
The World Bank project included a number of
studies. The generatioi expansion study com-
pleted  in  1982 by S',ne and Webster Manage-
ment Consultants Inc. confirmed the 1979
recommendations   by   C.I.   Power  Services
regarding the types of plant but with a-
revised implementation schedule based on a
lower load forecast.   Additional  base  load
low speed diesels were recommended in 1986
and 1987 with coal-fired steam units in the
1990's.
A study on energy conservation assessed the
potential for the conservation of electrical
energy in Barbados, and made recommendations
for the implementation of a conservation



- 41 -
programme   in  the  island  .   The  Company
developed brochures and handouts for con-
sumers, with the theme "Use Energy Wisely",
as part of a customer education and public
awareness  programme.   The Government set up
an Energy Conservation Unit with assistance
from overseas consultants and this unit was
also active in the public awareness campaign.
It carried out energy surveys of industries
and gave specific advice on energy conserva-
tion  measures  recommended.    Courses  were
given for maintenance and operating personnel
from industry in energy management.
The Marginal Cost Tariff Study was completed
in late 1982 and provided an indication of
tariff levels based on Long Range Marginal
Cost Analysis.
Two studies, on the Public Utility Board's
Procedures   and  the  Criteria  for  Setting
Electricity Rates, were performed for the
Government.   The Government  was responsible
for these studies, engaged the consultant and
managed  the  projects.      The  Company  re-



- 42 -
imbursed the Government for the cost of the
studies.
7.   Performance of  Consultants.  Contractors.and
SugDliers .
The consultants,  C.I. Power Services Ltd. (CIPS),
assisted with the development of the expansion
programme and continued to provide services during
the project period. They helped with the prepara-
tion of specifications and tender documents for
materials procurement, evaluation of tenders, and
monitoring  and expediting purchase orders.   CIPS
provided design and project management services
for the SCADA system and were appointed Rngineer
to monitor the contractor's performance on the
turnkey contract for the Low Speed Diesel PIlant.
Distribution line conversions and construction,
and the erection and expansion of substations were
supervised and managed by BLPC engineers and tech-
nical staff.
Other consultants carried out the studies which
were  completed  during  the  project.   Stone and
Webster did the System Expansion Study, Energy



- 43 -
Conservation Study, and the Marginal Cost Tariff
Study, while Peat Marwick performed the studies on
Criteria for Setting Power Rates, and the Operat-
ing Procedures of the Public Utilities Board for
the Government, funded by BLPC.
The performance of the contractor for the Low
Speed Diesel Plant Project was very impressive.
Relations with the engineer, client and sub-
contractors were co-c irative and the project was
completed on schedule and within budget.
Suppliers  generally   performed   satisfactorily,
delivering   materials   in  accordance  with  the
specifications at the times promised.    The  con-
tract for one year's supply of distribution trans-
formers was supplied by a manufacturer in Taiwan
and an order for overhead line conductor was from
Thailand.    Delivery of these shipments took con-
siderably longer than normally expected from North
American or European suppliers.   In view  of  the
distances
involved this was understandable.



- 44 -
IV.       OPRRATING PERFORMANCE
1.   Market
At the time of project appraisal, load growth over
the three years 1977, 1978 and 1979 had averaged
11 percent per year.   The forecast for the period
1980 - 1985 was for an average load growth of 7.8
percent per year and the expansion programme was
developed to satisfy this projected demand.
In late 1979 the large increase in oil prices
triggered a recessionary reaction on the world
economic scene. Tourism and industrial production
suffered and over the 1980 - 1985 period actual
electricity load growth averaged only 3.4 percent
per year.   However in 1986 there was an  increase
of 6.5 percent in electricity sales and this rate
of growth may be exceeded in 1987.
Figures prepared by the Barbados Statistical Serv-
ice for tourist arrivals and the index of in-
dustrial production for the period 1976 - 1986 are



- 45 -
as follows:
YEAR TOURIST ARRIVALS AVERAGE LENGTH INDEX OF
OF STAY(NIGHTS) INDUSTRIAL
PRODUCTION
1976      224,314              8.5           140.7
1977      269,314              9.0           144.8
1978      316,883              8.7           150.9
1979      370,916              9.6           151.7
1980      369,915              9.8           167.2



- 46 -
YEAR TOURIST ARRIVALS AVERAGE LENGTH INDEX OF
OF STAY(NIGHTS) INDUSTRIAL
PRODUCTION
___   ----------------   --------------   ---------
1981     352,565           9.6          151.0
1982     303,795           8.3          145.1
1983     328,338           7.7          146.1
1984     367,652           7.1          140.1
1985     359,135           6.3          1%O.0
1986     369,770           6.5          160.0



- 47 -
2.   Prolect'8 Role
The  principle   objectives   of   the   expansion
programme as stated under Section I.2. (a) - (e)
above, have been successfully achieved.
Generation,    transmission    and    distribution
facilities were expanded to meet customer demand
for electricity during the period and to allow for
continued growth.
Installation of the new low speed generating
plant, which burns low grade residual fuel oil
both reliably and efficiently, bas had a benefi-
cial impact on the average system plant heat rate
which has been reduced by seven percent from 12005
STU/gross kWh in 1979 to 12083 BTU/gross kWh in
1986.    Modifications  to  the  Mirrlees  R Major
medium speed diesels have permitted the operation
of these engines on Bunker C fuel rather than the
more expensive distillate fuel, and improvements
to the boiler controls and installation of addi-
tional sootblowers in the steam plant boilers have
improved the efficiency and reliability of these



- 48 -
units.   In 1986 only 7% of the fuel used was dis-
tillate,  with 93% being residual  fueloil.    The
corresponding figures for 1979 were 24% and 76%.
Conversions of distribution feeders from 11,000
volt to 24,000 volt operation, re-conductoring of
feeders, and construction of new lines and substa-
tions have allowed system losses to be contained
at below 9% of net generation.
The system planning study by Stone and Webster in
1982 recommended that the Company should maintain
two generation sites to ensure reliability of
service. Over the past 20 years all new plant had
been installed at the Spring Garden site and with
retirement of old equipment at Garrison Hill the
capacity at the latter site had been reduced to
less than 7% of total installed capacity. In 1986
the five General Motors package diesels were relo-
cated from Spring Garden to Garrison Hill and have
increased the capacity at this site from 7700 kW
to 18200 kW.
Remote control of distribution substations via the
SCADA equipment from a central control room at



- 49 -
Garrison Hill has dramatically reduced feeder
outage times following a system disturbance and
improved operating flexibility.   Prior to  SCADA,
personnel had to be despatched to substations to
effect switching and, depending on the location
-and traffic conditions, this typically took be-
tween 15 minutes  and  an  hour.    With  SCADA  ,
feeders   are   monitored   continuously  and  are
generally reclosed within 5 minutes of a distur-
bance.
3.   Other Factors
The preparation and justification of the expansion
plan for the World Bank's appraisal team intro-
duced the Company to the Loss-of-Load-Probability
(LOLPI method of planning for generating plant.
Previously the Company had generally considered
firm capacity as being installed capacity less the
two largest units on the system.   The LOLP method
allowed an assessment to be made of the con-
sequences of various levels of reliability and an
optimisation of the cost-benefit relationship of
the target level of reliability. One day-per-year
loss-of-load probability was selected for Bar-



- 50 -
bados.
V.   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The following schedules are attached as appendices to this
report:-
- BLPC Key Financial Indicators 1974-1986 (Table 5.1) Appen-
dix A.
- BLPC Income Statements 1977-1986 (Table 5.2) Appendix B.
BLPC Source and Uses of Funds 1977-1986 (Table 5.3) Appen-
dix C.
- BLPC Balance Sheets 1976-1986 (Table 5.4) Appendix D.
The actual results varied slightly from the forecast due
principally to the deferment in the construction programme
resulting from a drop in the actual electricity demand. The
deviations are explained more fully in Section 1 below.
1. Tariffs
The actual basic tariff for the period 1980 - 1985 was



- 51 -
17.7 cents per RwH which was very much in line with the
18 cents per KwH forecast. The actual fuel tariff for
the same period amounted to 12.3 cents per KwH against
the  forecast of 15.6 cents per KwR.   This reduced ac-
tual fuel tariff resulted from the reduction in the
cost of fuel which was immediately passed on to the
consumer through the fuel adjustment clause.
2.   Sales Volume
The sales forecast for the period 1980 to 1985 was
based on an assumed cumulative growth rate of 7.5% per
annum. This rate was consistent with the actual growth
rate of the 1970's.  The actual  growth  rate  for  the
period 1980 to 1985 was 3.5X per annum.   The reduction
in the rate of growth  was  affected  by  the  economic
dlownturn of the Parbados economy.
3.   Revenues and Overating Exnenses
The overall revenue projected for the forecast period
did not materialise due to the lower sales growth and
drop in the fuel tariffs. Operating costs were however
reasonably well contained and the actual operating
ratio for  1980  -  1985  was  84.7%  compared  to  the



- 52 -
forecast of 83.2%.
4.   Net Fixed Assets Service
The 1980/1985 forecast anticipated the value of the net
fixed assets in service to rise to $380 million for the
1985 year. The actual value for that year was 27% less
at $277 million.
The difference of $103 million is accounted for through
the reduction in the planned construction programme,
lower asset revaluation indices and an increase in the
annual depreciation rates.
5.   Revaluation of Assets
A revaluation study was prepared by the appraisal divi-
sion of Stone and Webster Management Consultants Inc.
as at December 31, 1983. The resulting valuation which
was adopted by BLPC produced a lower value than had
been  anticipated  in the forecast.   The appraisal in-
dicies for the year 1984 and 1985 were also lower than
anticipated with the actual indices being 2.2% and 1.6X
respectively against a forecast index of 8.8w for each
of the two years.



- 53 -
6.   Denreciation Rates
The actual overall depreciation rates charged for the
period 1980 - 1985 amounted to 4.44$ on revalued fixed
assets compared to the 4.13% which was forecast.
7.   LiQuidity Problems
BLPC experienced some cash difficulties up to 1982 when
its overdraft facility had been fully utilised and
there was a threat of it being exceeded. However, the
rate increase granted towards the latter end of 1982
enabled this position to be rectifie4.
The overall current ratio for the period 1980-1985 was
1.7 compared to the forecast of 1.8.
The liquidity position was assisted by better credit
control of accounts receivable.   This was consistently
reduced to 31 days outstanding up to the 1985 year,
against a forecast of 51 days.
8.   Debt EQuity Ratios
The actual debt/equity ratio for the period 1980 to



-.54 -
1985 was 38/62 compared to the forecast of 31/69.
The resulting lower equity portion would have been sig-
nificantly affected by the large reduction in the ap-
praisal surplus which was caused by the lower revalua-
tion indicies.
9.   Rate of Return
The rate of return for the years 1982 - 1985 was
forecast  to provide 8  on revalued fixed assets.   The
actual result was slightly under that amounting to an
average of 6.7 per annum for the same period..
10.   Construction Expenditure
Tlhe overal'l expansion programme, 1380-1985, as forecast
at  project  appraisal was for a capital expenditure of
BDS$191 million, excluding interest during construc-
tion. Due to load growth being below the forecast
levels the expansion programme was reviewed and res-
cheduled, as mentioned in Section III, 2.
Actual construction expenditure for the period 1980-
1985 was BDS$129 million,  and for  1980-1986  totalled



- 55 -
BDS$161 million.
11.   Debt Service Coverage
The actual ratio for debt service coverage for the
period 1980 to 1985 was 1.6 compared to a forecast
ratio of 2.2 . This decrease resulted from lower earn-
ings as explained above which was not fully compensated
for the reduction in the construction programme.
12.   Extent of Financins of Construction Exnenditure-throuth
Internal-Cash Generation and Eguitv Contribution.
The actual capital expenditure for the period 1980 -
1985  amounted  to $136 million.   Funding was effected
through loans of $101 million (74O) share issue of $5.8
million (4%) and the remainder by internal cash gener-
ation (22%).
This compares to the forecast financing which comprised
loans of 70X, share issue of 5X and internal cash gen-
eration of 256.



- 56 -
13.   Inflation & Exchange Rates
Inflation was forecast to rise at an annual rate of 8%
over the period 1980 to 1985. The actual rate realised
for this period was slightly under 9X per annum.
However, there was a declining trend with the rate
dropping from 14.5X in 1980 to 3.91 in 1985.
The expected inflation rates did not produce any dras-
tic surprises but had the effect of eroding earnings
over time. This was offset by the increase in sales of
3.5% per annum.
14.   Exchange Rates
During the period i980 to 1985 there was a consistent
decline in the value of two of the Company's major E
funding currencies.   The Pound Sterling  dropped  from
4.70 to 2.60 and the Canadian Dollar from 1.70 to 1.50.
There was no change in the US Dollar to which the Bar-
bados Dollar is tied at 2.00 : 1.00.
There was little effect on the loan position of the
company resulting from these changes as the majority of
its debt is in US dollars.



- 57 -
The Company chooses to use the US dollar as its prin-
ciple currency for trading in the international market.
It is therefore largely sheltered from fluctuations in
exchange rate due to the tie of the Barbadian and US
dollars.
However,   in  general  terms  the  cost  of  importing
materials would have been reduced due to the strength
of the US dollar over the last six years.   This  would
have been a contributing factor to the lower inflation
rates for the Barbadian economy over this period.
15.   Tariff Structure
A cost of service study was prepared by Stone and
Webster Inc. based on the audited results for the year
ending December 31, 1981. This indicated that the rate
of return for each of the customer categories was as
follows:
Domestic Service                     (1.53)%
General Service                       6.59%



- 58 -
Secondary Voltage Power              6.07X
Large Power                         12.19X
Street Lighting                      (0.86*)
Employee                             (9.12X)
Total                                4.67X
The subsequent rate increase of 7.5 cents per RwE
granted in 1982/1983 was applied as an additional
charge to all customer categories.
VI.       INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
1.   Management and Organisational Effectiveness
An Administrative Services Department was set up,
reporting to the Secretary/Treasurer, responsible for
legal, insurance and personnel matters.
The Company had introduced a Data Processing Department
in 1972, and this centralised operation primarily serv-



- 59 -
ices the customer billing operations, stock inventories
and the general ledger.   Recently a number of personal
computers have been introduced in the accounting and
operating departments. Programs are being developed by
the  users  themselves  for  a  variety  of accounting,
record keeping and statistical systems.
The growing computer awareness created pressures for an
improvement in the Company's overall data processing
systems and a Computer Review Committee has recently
been set  up.    This  Committee  is  to  identify  the
Company's data processing needs and ways in which these
may be satisfied in the most effective and efficient
way in the future.
In 1986 an Organisation Review of the Company was made
by management consultants, Coopers and Lybrand As-
sociates.   This confirmed that the existing  organisa-
tion was basically sound.   Suggested changes are minor
in nature.   These are  being  discussed  and  will  be
implemented as and when appropriate.
2.   growth
Growth in sales, customers, system capacity, and finan-



- 60 -
cial areas have been dealt with previously in this
report.
Employees have increased from a total of 428 at the end
of 1979 (412 permanent + 16 temporary) to 474 by the
end of 1986 (442 permanent + 32 temporary) an increase
of 10.7%.
3.   Staff Recruitment. Training and Development
The Company recognises that training and the develop-
ment of appropriate skills, attitudes and behaviour of
its employees are fundamental to efficient operations.
Its policy is to pr-ovide employees with appropriate
training to improve job performance and prepare for fu-
ture changes in organisation or technology.
Specific training has been carried out, such as for the
introduction of the Low Speed Diesel Plant, or SCADA
equipment, when engineers and supervisors received
training at the suppliers' plants overseas during
manufacture of the equipment, and then on-the-job for
all related staff during construction, commissioning,
and initial operations.



- 61 -
On an ongoing basis, training is arranged within
departments in various areas.   These include  customer
relations, linesman training, generating plant main-
tenance, etc.
VII.      CONCLUSIONS
A small island utility, such as The Barbados Light and
Power Co., Ltd. does not have the possibility to inter-
connect with, and purchase power from other electric
utilities when mechanical plant has to be shut down for
maintenance, overhaul or because of equipment failure.
Being thus isolated from any form of outside help, the
Companj should always have enough plant reserve based
on past experience -to maintain a high standard of
rclinbility and minimize service disruptions.
Expansion of the Company's generation, transmission and
distribution facilities must necessarily depend on
growth of the Barbados economy and customer demands.
An important objective in design of the facilities is
to improve the generating plant rate of fuel consump-
t.an and to keep transmission and distribution energy
losses to a minimum in order to help keep the price of



- 62 -
electricity at reasonable levels.
The three low speed diesel generating units which have
been installed have enabled the Company to produce the
majority of electricity consumed in Barbados from
residual fuel oil.
Residual fuel oil is substantially lower in price than
lighter diesel fuel and all of the savings from the use
of residual fuel are passed directly to our customers
through the operation of the Fuel Adjustment Charge.
The Fuel Adjustment Charge automatically increases and
decreases the price of electricity as the cost of fuel
to the Company goes up and down. There has been a sus-
tained reduction in the Fuel Charge since it reached a
peak of 17 cents per kWh  in  April  1981.    The  Fuel
Charge fell to 5 cents per kWjh by December 1986, but it
is expected that it will start increasing again as the
fuel suppliers have advised that they will be increas-.
ing the price of fuel in 1987.
The Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System
which has been install d at the Garrison enables trans-
mission lines and main distribution feeders to be
monitored and operated from one control point.



- 63 -
The voltage levels of primary distribution feeders are
being converted from 11,000 volts to 24,000 volts to
help overcome impedance losses. This will be done in a
phased manner as required by feeder loads and by back-
up  requirements  to  maintain  acceptable  levels   of
reliability.
A milestone was passed in 1985 as electricity reached
the last rural settlements in Barbados awaiting serv-
ice.  There are always new customers within the network
to be served, while existing customers are connecting
up more and more electrical devices to the system.
In the Company's report to shareholders for 1986, the
Directors referred to the high level of customer satis-
faction resulting from enhancement of service quality
and a decline in the price of electricity.   The expan-
sion and improvement programme, started *in 1981, which
has  received  finanial    support from the World Bank,
other financing institutions and commercial lenders,
has  contributed  substantially to the modernisation of
the Barbados electric system, improvement in generation
and   distribution   operations   and   reduction    in
electricity prices.



- 64 -
BARBADOS - POWER PROJECT                  TABLE 1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
KEY DATES
Issue     First
Bifs or    Phase                         Start         cOpiet
Item               Tms of  Contrat   Material  wonstuctic/    Onstucton/
Referenc   Award      Delivery           rt            Ccntzat
1. wRYwn Pi'm
-      A. 24XV Lns              4/81     2/82        6/82             7/82           12/87
B. TransfoIxes          4/81     1/81        9/82            10/82           12/83
Ift n -m -M -.- -- L4/81    11/81           6/82             7/82           12/87
3. Cpciutns                 4/81    12/81        8/82             9/82           12/87
4. S.zwloe Mm               4/81     5/82        7/82             8/82           12/87
5. inns  mTDO
A. Generaticm
Planning            2/81     6/81          -              6/81            8/82
B. i2ergy
Conservaticn        7/81     7/81          _              9/81            7/82
C.  Tariff Study        7/81     3/82          _              3/82            1/83
D.  PUB Operating        _         _           _                _             7/81
E.  Criteria for         _         _           _                -            11/84
Rates



- 65 -
THE BARBADOS LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY LIMITED
EXPANSION PROGRAMME SUMMARY REPORT
TABLE 2
PROJECTS COMPLETED
PROJECT              PROJECT       PROJECT        FINAL     YEAR OF
FINANCING     ESTIMATE       COST      COMPLETION
-------------------------------------------------------------__-----------
1.  26 MW Low-Speed  SHB,CDC,    72.500,000    71,524,653       1982
Diesel Plant     RBC
2.  Relocation of
Diesel Oil Tank
and Diesel and
Gas Turbine
Controls         Internal       599,200       611,000      1983
3.  Marhill Street
Sub -Expansion   Internal       300,000       564,533      1982
4.   Spring Garden
24KV Substation
Expansion          SIB          432,000       569,588      1982
5.   Belmont Sub-
station Expansion  EIB          448,400       400,700      1983
6.  Mobile Transformer BIB           700,000       708,200      1983
7.   Salters Feeder
Conversion
(11,000 to
24,000 V)         IBRD         671,700       987,200      1983
8.   Bank's Feeder
Conversion         IBRD         930,000       579,700      1983
9.   Wildey Feeder
Conversion         IBRD       1,324,600       551,324      1981
10.  Replacement of
11,000 V U/G
Cable from
Garrison Hill
to Jemmotts Lane  Internal      401,200       391,400      1983



- 66 -
PROJECT              PROJECT       PROJECT        FINAL      YEAR OF
FINANCING     ESTIMATE       COST      COMPLRTION
----------------------------------------------------------------__-__-
11.  Distribution Dept.
Office at
Garrison          Internal    1,884,400     1,221,100       1983
12.  Garrison Drainage
System            Internal      208,800       231,000       1983
13.  Generation
Planning Study      IBRD        310,000       320,000       1982
14.  Energy
Conservation
Study               IBRD       .152,678       147,934       1982
15. Marginal Cost
Tariff Study        IBRD        165,622       162,280       1983
16.  Public Utilities                   -
Board Operating
Procedures          IBRI        100,000        66,800       1981
17.  Criteria for
Setting Rates       IBRD        245,000       216,200       198,5
18.  Soot Blower for
Steam Unit        Internal      179,300       246,600       1984
19.  Notton 24Kv
Sub-station         RIB         877,300       894,700       1985
20.  Stores Warehouse
at Garrison       Internal      378,000       424,600       1985
21.  Turbine Generator
in Low Speed
Diesel Plant      Internal    2,542,000     2,328,000       1985
22.  Supervisory
Control .and
Data Acquisition
System              BIB       1,497,500     1,658,500       1985



- 67 -
PROJECT              PROJECT       PROJECT        FINAL      YEAR OF
FINANCING     ESTIMATE       COST      COMPLETION
--------------_-_----_--------------------------------------__--------
23. Sub-station
Marshalling Panels
for SCADA         Internal      127,700       203,500      1985
24. Distribution
Transformers       IBRD/        Budgeted     5,252,100
(1981 - 1986)      Internal     Annually
25. Meters and
Services           IBRD/        Budget.d     4,264,500
(1981 - 1986)     .Internal     Annually
26. Street Lighting
(1981 - 1986)    Internal       Budgeted       977,900
Annually
27.  Line Extensions   Internal/     Budgeted    15,382,400
and strengthening CDC           Annually
(1981 - 1986)
28.  Rural Extensions Internal/      Budgeted     1,016,700
(1981 -1986)  ErB               Annually
29. Vehicles and
Construction     Internal       Budgeted     3,894,700
Equipment                       Annually
(1981 - 1986)
30. Garrison 44,OOOV
Substation       EBI          1,035,000     1,649,800    1985
31. 24KV OCB at
Belmont for
Garrison Line    EIB/           117,000        98,700    1985
Internal



- 68 -
PROJECT             PROJECT      PROJECT        FINAL    YEAR OF
FINANCING    ESTIMATE       COST     COMPLETION
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------
32.  Admin Buildings  Internal    1,347,400    3,205,787    1986
Garrison Hill
33.  Extension of    Swedbank/  35,000,000   28,572,792    1987
Low Speed Diesel Internal
Plant, Unit D12
34.  Old Works       Internal    1,035,000       850,001    1987
Substation
35.  Relocate G.M.   Internal    1,098,000       997,700    1986
Units from
Spring Garden
to Garrison Hill



PROJECTS IN PROGRFSS
PROJECT            PROJECT      PROJECT    EXPNDISTURI TO
FINANCING   ESTIMATE   1985-1l-30          REMARKS
---------------------------------------  _--------------------_____
1. Central 1 and 2
24,000 volt lines,
strengthening     IBRD       518,000                      Central 1
line is
completed.
Central 2
line 90*
completed.
2. Reconductoring                                           Held pendin
St. Thomas                                                realignment
24KV line         IBRD       380,200                      of Highway
realignment
2A.



_7n-
PROJECTS DEFERRED
PROJECT                 PROJECT      PROJRCT         REMARKS
FINANCING    ESTIMATE
__________________________________________________________________
1. 69.000 V Transmission
Line, Spring Garden to
Wotton                  CDB       8,910,000)     All 69,000 Volt
ProJects have
2. 69,000 V Transmission                            been deferred
Line, Spring Garden                              due to load
to Port                CDB        1,697,000)     growth.being
below forecast
3. Wotton 69,000 V                                  levels.
Substation             EIB        2,900,000)
4. Spring Garden
69,000 V Substation.    EIB      2,000,000)
S. Port 69,000 V
Substation             EIB       2,850,000)
6. Cement Plant
Substation           Internal      437,000)
ABBREVIATIONS
CDB            - Caribbean Development Bank
CDC            - Commonwealth Development Corporation
RBC           - Royal Bank of Canada
SHB           - Svenska Handelsbanken
EIB           - European Investment Bank
IBRD          -  International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (World Bank)
Swedbank      -  Sparbankernas Bank/Swedbank



BARBAWS - R       Ra7P T                      LE 3
ciractv and EherBv Ralaie
1979    1980    1981      1982      1983    1984      198S    1986
Peak Demwd                            51.0    52.5    54.7    58.2    S9.7    61.7    64.2    67.9
Genaratjn Plant va4
,at~i at erdof year)
Garrison Diesels 8, 9, 12-15         5.0      4.4      3.2      3.2      3.2      3.2      3.2      3.2
Garrismn diesels GM1, 2 and
3 (3 x 1.65 NO0                    4.9      4.9      4.9      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5
Spring Garda Diesels 1-5
(5 x 2.1 NO                       10.5    10.S    10.S    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.S    10.S
Spring Garde DIesels 6 -9
(4 x 4.5 Mi)                      18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0
Gas Turbine                         17.5    17.5    17.5    17.5    17.S    17.5    17.5    17.5
Stem Uhiits I and 2 (2 x 20 6n)     40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0
Low Sped Diesel unit 1  I/           -         -        -      12.5    12.5    12.5    12.5    12.5
Low Speed Diesel Unit 2  1/          -         -        -      12.5    12.5    12.5    12.5    12.S
Waste tbat Tubi1ne      2/                                       -       -         -       1.1      1.1
I.ow qeed Diese Unit 3  3/            -         -       -        -       -         -        -        -
Total                               95.9    95.3    94.1   118.7   118.7   U18.7   119.8   119.8
NGY BWWa (G)
Gwss Generation                       315.4   331.5   348.6   356.5   37s.0   382.4   388.7   414.0
Generatlm by Plant:
Garrismn & pring Gurden Diesels              73.3    68.9    59.2    46.4    52.1          40.1    s8.5
Gas Turbine                                   7.2    12.1       8.3      7.1      8.3       1.1      1.8
Steam Units 1 and 2                         251.0   267.6   2S9.8   171.7   18S.9   205.2   203.6
Low Veed Diesels                                               29.2   149.8   136.1    142.3   150.1
1/  Cuuissioned Septaier 1982
2/ Cmuuissicned March 1985
3/ 12.5 tW Set OmCusslmed in Februan, 1987



Actual and Projected Thernv and Power Rguiznents                                     TABLE 4
1979   1980   1980   1981    1981   1982   1982    1983   1983   1984   1984   1985   1985   1986
Actual F cast Actual F'cast Actual F cast Actual F'cast Actual F cast Actual F cast Actual Actual
BewSales-(GWh)
DlmestLc                    79.3   82.7   83.0   88.0   86.7   93.5   91.8   99.3   93.8  105.6   95.8  112.2   99.6  107.3
Cieneral Service            17.6   17.8   20.7   19.1   20.0   20.4   20.0   21.9   19.2   23.4   18.7   25.1   16.8   16.4
large and Secxmdary Poawer  170.9  188.1  173.6  204.0  189.2  221.1  192.9  239.4  199.0  259.1  207.8  280.2  212.4  226.5
Other                        S.0    5.0    4.8    5.1        5.2    5.2    5.4      5.3    5.4    5.4    5.6    5.S    5.5    5.8
Tbtal       272.8  293.6  282.1  316.2  301.1  340.2  310.1  365.9  317.4  393.5  327.9  423.0  334.3  356.0
Transmission * Distributin
losses (t of net generatitn)    8.35    9.00    9.70   9.00    8.36   9.00    7.59    9.00  10.41    9.o0    9.31    9.00   8.61   8.78
Net Generaticn (GWh)          297.6  322.6  312.3  347.5  328.6  .373.8  335.6  402.1  354.3  432.4  361.6  464.8  365.8  390.3
Station Service (t of gross     5.65   6.00    5.79    6.00    5.75    6.00    5.85    6.00   5.52   6.00    5.73   6.00    6.29   6.32
geeraticn)
Gross GYenration (Gwh)        315.4  343.2  331.5  369.7  348.6  397.7  356.5  427.8  375.0  460.0  382.4  494.5  388.7  414.0
Annual load Factor (O)         70.6   69.5   70.0   69.5   70.6   69.5   70.0   69.5   71.7   69.5   71.0   69.5   69.4   70.0    r
Peak DemaAn 0Y)                51.0   56.4   52.5   60.7   54.7   6S.3   58.2   70.3   59.7   75.6   61.7   81.2   64.2   67.9
Omber of Ostamars
Domestic                      59255  61280  60800  63241   62509  65265  63768   673S3  65330  69508  66060  71733  67567  69527
Other                          6522   6445   6862   6619    7204   6795   7436    6978   7632   7169   7710    7365   7722   7934
Ibtal               65777   67725  67662  69860   69713  72060  71204   74331  72962  76677  73770  79098  75289  77461



-73-
THE BARBADOS LIGHT & POWER CONPANY LID  - WORLD 9ANK COPLETION REPORl                                 BI.B 5.1
Page l of 3
Actual  Actual  Actuat  Actual  Actual  Actual
1974     1975     1976     197      1978     1979
....     ....  .    ....   ....  . . ....    ......  ... ........
lable 5.1. ILPC Key finaiast Idicators
Rate of Return
Average not fixed assets: book value of assets       58,084   58,326  77,099  94.554    93.614  93,852
(1000 0DS) fully revalued C estimate) (1000 BS)                                         137,818  151,1?5
Rate of return t on partially revalued assets (2)       7.1      7.0      5.6      6.1      4.7      5.5
s on fully revatlud assets (1)                                     4.402   3.20M    3.402
Rate of retum on caimon quity (2)                      7.10Q    7.602    6.80X    5.20X    2.402   3.002
Earninos per share and dividends: eamings CeDc/share)      112      112       99       84       31       38
: dividends (tDc/share      40       40       40       40       40       40
Operating ratio (2)                                         84       86       86       85       89       90
Current ratio (times)                                      2.0      1.3      0.9      0.8      0.9      0.7
Debt service coverape
gross debt service (3$ 1000)                          2,950   3.878    5,627    7.287   7,802    7,946
Ratio ( times)                                          2.5      1.8      1.4      1.7      1.3      1.
Dabt /equity ratio  :- Debt                               0.00     0.00     0.43     0.40     0.35     0.33
- Equity                             0.00     0.00     0.57     0.60    0.65      0.67
Receivables (days)                                        S6.0    48.0    45.0    41.0    49.0    59.0
Depreciation (2 of prior years gross fixed assets         3.432   3.472    4.1211   4.772    4.22X    3.65S
excluding w.i.p.)
Contribution to investment
Construction reqairemnts (3081000)                   13.402  21,099   12.833    5,010   5,091    5,682
Intenal contribution to investmnt (2)                  U.O    31.02    4.OX   61.02   -36.02   39.02
Average revenue
Current prices (BDc/kth)                               14.1     15.3     1S.7      16.7    15.8    18.6
Constant 1979 prices (tOcI/kh)                         23.9    21.6 S     1.1     20.7    17.9      18.6
Average cot of fuel (current BftIkOh sold)                 6.9      7.8      7.6      7.4      7.6    10.3
Incre  in consrmr price index (2)                         39.02    20.32     5.0%    8.3S      9.S    13.22



THE BARBADOS LIGHT & POWER COM4PANY LID  * WORLD BANK COMPLETION REPORT                        BTR     5I1
PaXqe 2 of 3
Forec"t Forecat Forecast Forfecast Forcst forect
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Table 5.1. BLPC Key Financial indicators
Rate of Return
Averase net fixed "ssets: 60di value of ssets     112,320
(1000 SDS) fully relued t estlastO) (1000 SDI)   16,734  U3,685 221,170 28,31  334,602 39,762
Rate of return : an partiatly rwalued assets        It' 115
: an fully rvlued assets ()           7.702   7.202   8.001   8.002   8.002   5.002
Rate of return an cenwon equity (X)                 0.503   3.002   3.502   4.302   4.902  6o.50
Earnings per share aNd dividends: earnins (UDe/sbare)    (6)      S4      106     143      168     264
s dividens (Sc/shre       40       40      40       40       40      40
Operating ratio (2)                                      83       86      84       81       82      83
Current ratio (tims)                                    1.2      1.5     1.8      2.1      2.1     2.2
Debt service coverage
Gross debt service (3  1000)                       9,094  10,780  13,011  21,603  23,15  23.763
Ratio ( times)                                       2.2      2.1     2.1      1.7      1.8     2.1
Debt /equity ratio  :- Debt                            0.27    0.30    0.35    0.32    0.31    0.28
Equity                           0.73    0.o    0.6S    0.68    0.69    0.72
Receivables (days)                                     66.0    S8.0    51.0    51.0    51.0    S1.0
Depreciation (I of prior,-ears gross fixed asts        5.142   4.96f   3.672   3.672   3.672   3.6?1
etLuding ui.i.p.)
Contribution to lwgttint
Construction requirements (8DS1000)               15,874  45,819  46,652  32,061  3S,38   24,976
Internal contribution to irwsastnt (2)              31.ox   24.02   33.02   30.02   58.0   103.02
Average revmt
Current prices hOce/klWh)                           2S.9    28.9    32.6    33.0    38.0    42.4
Constant 1979 prices (BDO/O )                       23.4    24.0    25.1    23.7    25.5    26.6
Average cost of fuet (Current DOClkWh sold)            14.2    16.3    18.3    16.8    18.6    20.9.
inerease In consmer price index (2)                    10.52    9.0X    8.02    7.0X    7.0x    7.02



-75 -
THE SARIDOS LIONT 6 PWER COWAN  LTD  - LD UAUK COWLETION REPORT                                     MN        5.1
3 of 3
Actul  Actual  AItSi  Actul  fAtual  ActUal  ActUat
1980    1981    1982    196         964    1965    1906
~~~~~~~~~~~....                    ....  .  .... ...... ... ........ ... ........
Teble S.1. BUC Key Financsl indilestOr
Rate of Retum
Averg net fixed  oetss book value of assets
(1000 O0N) fulty revalued   estimet) (1000 NS)                       M  -  206.622  30.9       2770,o3  276.612
Rate of return: an partltlty realued aets (M)
t an fultly rtlued asts ()             0.001    0.001   4.9M     6.5      6.80    S.M       S.-"
Rate of retur an cm  o eu ity (1)                    3.9       1.98x   1.19X   4.91   4.2         2.131   2.6
Eaminp per share nd dividends: eanings (clshare)          45       37       34       67       60       55       51
s divdens (5Icleswo        31       40      40       39       50       50       3
operating ratio (B) 88                                             69       8        r 6              a6       84
Current ratio (tims)                                      1.3   - 2.1      1.3      1.9      2.3      1.S     1.4
Debt service oeorag
Gross debt srvice (W0  1000)                        9.063   10.870   14,720   31n   25,65   18U.44    1?.811
Ratio C time)                                          1.9      1.6     1.3      1.5      1.5      1.8      2.0
Debt /equity ratio  s- Debt                             0.25    0.45    0.51    0.4         0.30    0.28    0.30
Equity                            0.75    0055    0.49    0.52    0.70    o.J          0.70
Reeivabes (day)                                           5        44       41       43       41       31      29
Deprecition (lof prior Yoa  gross fixed aSets           5.14X   3.61X   4.376   3.JU0    5.641   4.09X   4.M55
ecluding U.S.p.)
Contribution to inmestmnt
Constructfon reqiremnts (1OSO1O)                     9.536   50,130  37,701    9,299   12,831   16,696  33.779
Internal contribution to investoent (1)              218.86    14.76    3.28   86.61   65.76  100.41   39.9X
Average 
Current priems (3DC/k9)                               26.6    27.7    28.2    33.0    33.3    31.3    27.7
Constent 1979 prices (Ipo/SW )                        23.2    21.1     19.5    216    20.9    18.9    16.5
Avrge cost of fuel (current OOdiM  sald)                 15.4    16.6    16.1    14.J    14.7    12.6          9.1
Incrase In eonsumer price index (C)                      14.51   14.6    10.35    5.         44.61    3.91    1.31



_76-                                      TABZ5S.2
Page 1 ofr 3
IN! BAI*    LIGHT S POM  CO. L                        ACUst  Astwi  Actmat  Actual  Actintm
UL  SOm  cOWLuTIUI Km                                  195    1976    197    19           1979
....        ....    ....     ..... ..  . ...... ...
Te S.2. 8C Ir_m  *te
flines s6.e1  (SI)                                                     223.0   24.0   m.8
...    .....   .....
Averae Tertiff Revs   (ejlb) a s"Jc                                     9.55    11.08   11.50
full elaus                             7.19    4.n      7.10
Total                                 16.73   15.81    13.59
.;....    .....   .....
Orting tevemis I                                                      21.2l8  270V    31.39
hotl sem                                           16082   11,542  19,35M
1IteeU sus                                            124       86     2
....... ......... ....... ..........
Totat                                               7.440   30.646  50.956
awatins~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ...........i  ...... .......... .......
Opttirv   f_pnss a ta                                                  16,53 ' 18,500  25.035
opqatlum a mi _   wu                               9.010  10.3U2  12,#1
ohpr.sietIm                                        5,50r   4,9U3   4,2s7
Otr   __t-sub                                        107      100      100
Taxa: Csrpsratia,                                                       0
Other                                         450      424      615
,......... ....... ..............
lowa                                              31,60  34,289  45,2
=......... ....... .......... ...
operati Ig                                                              S,0   4,m3   5,130
Plus$  I      t lIn                                   11        S      11
ee1s (1oa) an aewe                             SS       520      449
I  et. tax sreot l ef.
c_s ltttbsn drwg
.......... ....... ..............
met Incm before inteet                                        6.346   4,902   S,590
Le's s lnt. an Ion tes det ege to tepetiom                             3,431   3.386   3,658
Intest an oadraf 
....... ......... ....... ..........
- ebt ime.                                                             2,71S   1,516  19'2
Arciatlems Dlvldw1m                                                   (1,301) (1,84) (2,007)
Tram. to Pref. dwe u    re  tIen ree.                       0    (125)   (125)
Trafer to speci at rs"                                      0       0
Cepelatimtlln ot rtlned earnigp                             0  (3,135)       0
Prla vor   adju_  nt                                        0       0        0
Adds trons. of oppalia elemet InSId in dsprOn oft.                         0        0       0
Retined Eanmins  egning of. yr                                         4.315   5,558   2.170
d otf yer'                                           5,79    2,170   1I970
Calaulatin of rsteeof*reMM
operating Issues                                           5,70   4,37      5,13
late of eturn(S) a an ftuly revaue  a_tr in
S19745.                                          4.45   3.25    3.40



-77                                            TA-S 
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -7
Paqe 2 of 3
VWE iUIWA0  LIIGT 4 PER CO. LTD                             fOes05: Forecaut forerat fore t Forest forcut
-      WORLD SANK COMPLETIOI REPORT                                    1960      1951      19a2     1983      191       19l5
....     ....   .  . ....    ....   .  .... ....  ............ ......... .........
Tablo 5.3. 8LPC Incom  Statents
final Sales (SAh)                                             293.6  '316.2    340.2    36e.9    393.5    423.0
.....    ...... .....    ....... .....    ....... .. ........... ..
Averag  Tariff Rev        (lDcJiH): lasic                      14.13    14.58    16.49    18.28    21.2         23.26
fuel clause             11.60    14.28    16.14    14.74    16.75    19.1S
.....    ...... .....    ....... .....    ....... .. ........... ..
Total                   25.93    28.86    32.63    33.02    36.02    42.41
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....    .....                                                ....... .....    ....... .. ........... ..
Operating Rwoiw  a  sai                                      41.476   4.102   S,608    e66,66    A3.70    98,403
fuel clause                            34.6"     45,160   54,m    53,919   65.918   81,003
liscoLe                                    24S      257        70       2         297       312
.......  ......... .......  .......... .......  .......... ... ................ ...
Totat                                  76,363   91.519  111,251  121.086  149.921  179,718
~~~~~.......            ......... .......   ........................ ..... ..............
Operating Een   : Fuet                                       41,760   51,S       62,319   61,345   73.344   88,429
operatin  & mintenine                 1444       7,2      20,470   23.211   26,347   29.,
Depreciation                           6,195    3,36       9,417   12,005   15.263   17,063
Other non-cash                           201       200        81        SO        45
Tax"es: Corpoation                          0     *            -               6,047   11,79
other                             920       943    1,270    1,645    2,090    2.200
= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......  .......  .......... .......  .......... ....... ..... ..............
total                                 63.516   76.355   93n,s5      96,26  123146  149,337
.................... .........  ....... ..........  ....... .......... .......
Operating In :                                               12,847   13.1t    17,694   22,830   26,7   30,381
Plus: Investmnt InceI                               1t      It         11        t1        11
Gain (tloss) on exchan             218       217       215       21S       189        99
Lses- Deterred tes                    (,76)  (2,436)   4,15)  (4,34)  (4,331)  (3,750)
invnst. tax credit def.        (1,216)  (3,3SO)  (3.066)  (1,914)  (2,116)  (1,079)
Caellation Chargs
.......  ......... .......  .......... .......  ......... .................... .
met Incm  before Interest                                     4,094    7,606    O0.7       16,776   20,530   25,662
Lass  Int. on log term debt  haged to operatios               2,605    3,665    4.363    8,208    9,40    6.O
Interest on rordraft                                  1,469       734       437       24?       176        57
.......  ......... .......  .......... .......  .......... ... ................ ...
Net Incom                                                        20    3,157    5,903    8,241   10.874   16,95
Apprpiatioant Dividwd                                        (2,106)  (2,406)  (2,406)  (2,SO6)  (2,806)  (2,06)
Irw.s. to prof. shre redption re.             (12S)    (12S)    (125)        125)    (125)    (125)
Trwnfer to speciae                               0         0         0         0         0         0
CapitatiatIon of retained earnings               a         0         0         0         0         0
Prior yor  dJstnt0                                         0         0         0         0         0
-       sAdd  tran. of appriesal eltent incld in deprn chs.               0         0         0         0         0         0
Retained Earnings: lgiming of year                           1.970       (241)     385    3,757    9,367   17.310
End of yer   -                             (241)      385    3,5       9,367   17,310   31,144
Calculotion of rate.of-return:
Operating inco                                 12.647   13,164   17,694   22.530   26,M          30,31
Rate of return(%) s on fully revalued assets In
1977-5                               T.7 X    7.522    8.00       8.0        8.002    5.o00



-78-                                         TMIB 5.2
MM= S.2
Pamfl 3 (bf 3
THt 4ARADOS LIGHT 4 POWEt CO. LtD                      Actual  Astual  Actuatl  Actut  Aetult  Actul  actu
-     VoRLO 5WR K amCILETIu RPORT                            1980    1981    19a2       198S    1984    1985    1984
....      .... .   ....     .... .   ....    .... . . .... .. ...... ...... ..
Tablo 5.2. SLPC Income Stat_amte
Flirl Sales (VA,)                                      282.1   301.1   307.?   317.4   327.9   334.3   356.0
......... ...,......... .._ ...... .......  ..... .......   .....
Avwrag Tariff Savem- (OWkUh) s ae                      13.7    13.80    14.77   21.39   21.28   21.30   21.35
fuel clause          12.69    13.94    13.47    11.57   12.0S    9.96    6.42
Total                26.56  2V.74   28.24   32.96   33.33   31.27   27A?6
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....                            ..... .. .....   ..... .. ..... .................. ..........
OFerating Revene:s Saabe                              39,115  41,551  4S,439  67,83   69,76?  71,219  75,d0
Fuel clous                        35,811   41,967  41.444   36,718  39,56  33,309  22,065
_  slfuettieou                        262     255      368      46?      744     547      797
........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ..............
Total                              75.18e  833,M    87,251  105,068  110.037  105,075  99.312
.......;........ ................. ..... ........... ........
Operating Ezpnsa   h ouel                                  43,310  49.0439  49,494  45,16"   48.132  42,19   32,263
Oprtlona & mintenance             14.282   1,81? 17T        23.63S  25.4SS  25,"5   27.905
Daweclation.                       6,199   6.276   7,?41   9,S46   14,060   15.49  17,101
Ot-er nu-sab
Tms: Corporation                   1.284       0        0        0   1,5?   4.180   3.230
Other                         76      77    1.124    1,136   2,184    197S    1,991
........ ........ ........ ........ .. .............. ........
Total                             6s.841  74,710  76?,33  79,483  91,938  9SS3  83,2"9
*                   ~~~~~~........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........
operating Inoe                                         9,34?   9,0D3   11,118  25,585   18,099   15,57    16.013
Plus Investmnt incom                 1S        9      140       Ss      205       3       16
Gain (loss) on excan           295     542      586      609      383     66        23
Lass: Oeferre  twa                (2.256)    M    (1,389) (9,605) (5,151) (3,609) (2,354)
Invet. tax credit def.        (659) (4,044) (2,319)   (267)   (310)   (650) (1,455)
Cnceltlation charg                             (412)
........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........
INt Inc  before Intest                                 6,742   6.363    7.724   16,357   13,226   12,042   12,26
Loee  tlnt. on lon tem debt dc d  to owratians         2,307   3.327   5,406   10.668   1,606    7,36   6*763
-           intest on ovedraft                              185S       881      331     727      19       115      373
Net Income                                             2,580   2.15S    1,97   4.962   4.451   4.0N    5,107
Aepprieations: Divid                                  (2.054)  (2,23) (2,639)  (3,119)  (3,96) (3.969)  (3.9rt
Tres. to prof. hre radption ra.    (12S)   (1U5)   (125)   (125)   (125)   (13S)   (125)
Tranfw  to special reerv                   0        0        0   (2,453) (2,62?) (3,224) (3.741)
Capitalization of retained earning    (1.970)       0        0                            (13432)
Prior yr adjsntment
- Ad  trn. of Waiatal *tnt incl'd in depr'n chg.  2SSS    2,402   2,93S   2.423   7,096 7f6r5  11,015
Rtained Enngs:  gimntrg of yt                          4,927   5,913   7,722    9,810   11,56   16,396  20.804
-Ed of yer                          S,913    ,72   9'8.m    11568  16,396  20;          I5,57
Catcutation of rate-of-returns
oprating Incoe                                             10,291   22.858  18,607  16.301  16,052
Rate of returnc2) i on ful  rVlmed wasets In
1977-5s                                           4.932   8.59X   6.86S    5.88t   5.o7



-79                       _XZ 5.3
PEM 1 of 3
THt 363100U LOST & PEII CO. LTD                         Mtd   Actual   ctual    A           Mto i actmi  Acul
-        fIIOR161K CaUmPLETUS RP?                                1974    195       1976     19"      17       1979
....     ....   ....       ....    ....         ....
Table 5.3. BLPC Souer   ad We of FuS
Internal Seuree
Not in        befor interst                                                     66    49.902    5.590
Oel eatlon                                                                    5.507.0   4.943    4*257
Othr non-cash aoapenes                                                            1t0       100      100
Deferred tae  ad l smnt  ta  crdits                                                  0        0        0
Amlizatlon of deferred echag  gains                                               (575)   (519)   (558)
Custimr contributias                                 ..                                   1.0t6      so9
Total                                       ........................
12.174   10.478   10.38B
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ ........ ........
Opertlonal requiroet
Chames in other a*st.    iabititiel                                               140     (61)   (214)
Amortization of debt                                                            3S,62   4*360   4,39
Intetest en lON- teo debt charged to eperatiane                                 3.401   3.36    3.S6
Interest an overdraft
Dividend                                                                        1.301    1.694    2.007
....... ..................
Total                                                                         * 634    9.S79   9.710
-     Met Internal Cash Genration                                                         3.540       9       s
Working Capitat lRquiremmeit-
Changes In working epital excludin  overdraft                                     500   2,732    2,756
Decrease tincre ) In ordraft                                                    (1,649)  M1M 7) O(1262)
Increase (dereae ) in teprrr cash wsrpus
St&btotet                                                                     (1,149)    634   (5.506)
Construct on Requirements
Prqpsd project
Other works                                                                     4,916    5.035    5.653
Interet dorNg cntruetion                                                           94       56       29
Sth.totat                                                                      5.010   5,091    5,682
Total  orkig Capital wnd Construction Rpequre                                       3. 61   5,S45       176
Blanc  to f I                                                                         321   S05.2      (3M)
Fint  ed by: Lom
E"Aty                                                                       5.000
...........................
Totat                                                                 282  5010          0
Other applications (Sourcs)                                                           (39)     52)    32
- emOrandu  Ites
Contribution to Inveetmuut X                                                           612    .3       n3x
Debt sevice coveag  (time)                                                            1.7      1.3      1.3
Acsmtlated tea orary cash srFpus (deficit)



-   -                                        TAMLE 5.3
Paqe 2 of 3
1mH  ARBADOS LIGHT a POWER CO. LTD                     Forecast Forecast Foreeast Fectaest Forecast Forecast
-      tIORLo eANm  COMPLETION REPORT                            1980      1961     1982     1983     1984     198S
....     ....  .  .... ......... 
l.bl* S.3. gLPC Souress snd Uses of funds
Internal Sources
net income betore Interest                            4,094    y,606   1O,703   16,776   20,S30  25,662
Deprectation                                          6,1    8,364    9,417   12.00S   15,2Z3   17,063
Other non-cash expenses                                  201      200       81       50       4S        0
Deferred gaes and Invest_ nt tax credits              8.982   5$,76      7,21T   6,2b0    6,44?   4,629
Amortization of deferred exchon   gains                 (348)    (217)   (315)    (21S)    (169)       (9)
-        Customer contributions                                   999    1.139    1.27    1t,45S    1,644    1,857
Total            *------  ....... ..       . ........ .        ........
20,123   22,878   28,490   36,351   43,760  49,312
........  ........... ........  ........... ........  ............ ........... ........
Operationsl requirm_nts
Chanoes in other assts end liabilities                 0
Amortization of debt                                  4,946    4,816    4,573   11.569   13,415   12,979
Interest on lo-terom debt charged to operations       2.605    3,66S    4,363    0.268    9,480    0.640
Interest on oevrdraft                                 1,469      784      437       247      176       st
Dividends                                             2,106    2,406    2.406    2.506    2.860     2,806
................................................................    .........
Total                                              11.121   11.673   11,779   22,610   2s,877   24.482
o ...... ....................  ............ ........  ........... ........ ........
Net Internal Cash Generation                             8,995   11.205   16.711   13.741   17,883   24.t30
Vorking Cpitl aU Rqfuir nts
Changes In working capital excluding overdraft        3,350       62    1,217   4,045   (2,S55)    (804)
Decres (increase) in overdraft                        7,289    3.500    3,800       200    1,300    1,200
Increase  (decrease) in tasprary cash surplus           21?      485   (1,496)      711    6,057   12,092
Sa-totetl                                          10,856    4,047    3.519    4,956    6,802   12,436
Construction Requirements
Proposed project                                               3,723    S.037    3.519    3.716         0
Other works                                           15.802   40,643   37,977   27,043   30.821   22 .89
Interest during construction                             72    1.S13    3,38    1.499       844    2,087
SUb-total                                          15,874   4,079   46,6S2   32,061   35,383   24,976
Totatl Urking Capital and Construction Requirements     26,730  49,926   50,171   37.017   42.15   37,414
Batane to fin nce                                       17,735   38,721   33,460   23,276   24,302   12,584
finsnced by: Loan                                    12,7M    38,721   33,460   18,276   24,302   12,584
Equity                                   5,000                       5,000
Total                                   17,735   38,721   33,460   23.276   24,302   12,5t4
Other aptications (soure)
Norurnm  Iteas
Contribution to Invwes'nt X                                 313       24S      333      30X      S83     103$
Debt Service coerage itims)                                2.2       2.1      2.1      1.7      1.6      2.1
Accumulated temporary cash surplts (deficit)                217      70      (96)      (65)   7,972   20,064



TABLE 5.3
Page 3 of 3
TIKE AO OS LIGHT S PWER CO. LTD                             Actuat   Actual   Actual   Actual  Actual   Actual  Actual
-       AORLD  AK COMPLETION REPORT                                 1980      1981     1982      1983     1984      198S      1984
....     ....   .  . ....   ....        .       ....     ........ ..... ..... .....
Table 5.3. UPC Seurces en  Us" of Funds
internal Soures
Hot incos before interest                                6.T72    6,363    7.724   16.3S7   13,224   12,042   12,2U3
Depciation                                               6,19      6,276    7.721    9.54    14,630   15,459   17,910
-        Other ncn-ceh expense                                       316       316      374    1,440    1,68         894    1,273
Deferred taxes  nd investwnt tax credits                 2,91S    3.251    3,703    9,872    S.61    4,259    3,809
mrtization of deferred exchange gains                     (377)    (529)    (622)    (525)    (499)  (1,04)    (219)
-        Cue t,  r cntributions                                    1,034    1,553       951    1.432    1,S90    1,560    1,293
Total             ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........
16,89   1.230   19,856   38,122   36,046   33.169   36,309
........ ........... ........ ............ ........ ............ ........ ........... .......... ............
Operational requ irmnts
Changs in other asets ad liabilitie                        653    2.467    2.627        2S9       18S    1,393       371
Amortiation of debt                                      4,818    4.784    4,19    14,711   14,707   10,209    9,o60
Intret on tlng-tera  debt charged to operations          2,307    3,327    5,406   10,668        ,606    7,836    6,763
Interest on overdraft                                    1.855       881      331       727       169      11S       373
Dividends                                                2.O54    2.623    2,639    3.119    3.967    3,969    3,971
,........... ........ ........... ........ ........... ........ ........... ........ ........... ....
total                                                 11,687   14,082   15,198   29.484   27,634   23.S22   21,138
,........... ........ ........... ........ ........... ........ ................ ........... ...........
Net Internal Cash Genration                                 5,142    3.148    4.6S8    8,638    8,412    9.647   15.171
Working Capital *eqjirements
Changes In working capital excludirw overdraft           2,394   (4,220)   3,462        581       (24)  (T.117)   1,695
Decrease (increase) In overdraft                         6,012    9,718   (8,074)   4,95S    2.78           89   (2,860)
Increts (decrse) In teq2rry cash surplus                     0         0         0        0         0        0         a
.... ......................  ...... .......... .......  ........ ........  ........... ........ ........
Su.-totat                                              8,406    5.498   (4,612)   5,536    2,174   (7,028)  (1,165)
Contruction Requmreants
Proposed project                                              0        0    3.656    1,155    1,179         404      653
Other works                                              9,453   48,2S2   29.260    8,077   11,289   16,004   32,111
Interest cjring eomtruction                                 83    1,878    4,78          67       363      288    1,015
.... .................................. ........  ............ ........  ........... ........ ........
Su-totat                                               9.536   50,130   37.704    9,299   12,831   16,696   33.779
Total Working Capital and Constrution Requirents           17.942   55.628   33,092   14,835   15,605    9.668   32,614
alance to finace                                           12.800   52,480   28,434    6,197    7,193           21   1T,443
financed by: Loaa 7,800   51,750   28,434    6,197    7,173                                                  0   17,418
Equity                                     S,000       750                           20        21       2S
.... .................................. ........  ............ ........  ........... ........ ........
Total                                     12.800   52,480   28,434    6,197    7,193          21   17,443
Other   picationc (Souces)
nessran~aa Ite
contribution to Investment X                                    29m      152        32      87S       662      100l      402
Debt  serie coverag  (tims)                                    1.9      1.6       1.3       1.5      1.5       1.8       2.0
Accumutated t      mory cash surplus (deflcit)                   0        0         0         0        0         0         0



-82-                      .rZ 5.4
Paas I of 3
TIN MARO  LIGHT & PER CO. LTD                        Acta     ActAl  ActaN Actual  Acuat  Act
-     VO" SN  COWPLTIS REPS                                  1974    195    1         1977    1978    1979
Table 5.4. UKPC Setace  etA
-       mASST
Plat In oprtion                                                   115,5U4  117,03S 116.46  120,599
Lees a iatei dep ecation                                          (19,97) (I5s01) (no.055) (26.52)
Net fixed aets                                                    95,570  93,537  "969   94,013
Mak In  rore                                                        1       2,210   1.J22   1.691
CurrOnt Ats:
Cash: Oprtitmi requiremt                                             247      339      89      105
Toworary surptus (deficit)
Accoats recaivablt                                                 3,80   4,23S  Sl85   8.2"
Naterials ad sqpplles                                               3.88    4,521   5,688   6,000
Prepid exp s                                                          44       40      67      156
.......   ......... .......   .............. ..........
_Totl                                                l8,5    9,155   11,029  15.305
Deferred cres                                                        64t      548     440      s
Othe deferred    t                                                    26        8      17       9
........................ ....... ..-W....... .......
67      601      612     670
TOTAL AS                                                            1,40  1O5,S10  106,5 t11169
LIASILITIES
Equity: capital stock                                              16,740  16,740  .24,924  24,924
Shae edieption                                                                 125     250
Apaisal value                                              31.118  31,118  31,118  31,118
Spcial                                                          0       a        0       0
Retaired  anip                                              4,374   5,8    2,170   1,970
Total                                                            52,232  53.64T  58.,W    58,262
Leo-ter debt                                                      39,616  36,4)7  31,745  28,477
Curet Liabilities:
Ic overdraft                                                       5,50    7,149   9,027  17,289
-       AcCoots Payabte & aesrud liabilties                                 2,961   4,160   3,719   5.217
Other Current                                                        957      418      21       43
Corpation tax patb ae                                                 2        20       0
total                                                            9,43   11,74?  12.767  22.549
Deferrd credits
Accsawlated defetd tax                                                 0        0       0        0
Acoulated ivetw t tax credit)
Unrealised exchug gans                                             4.170   3,493   3.454   1.905
Catis centrihuton                                                    166      18     351      486
-       Past serfee  penion tlibitity                                         118       0        0 
4.454   3.679   3.5   2,M91
..... ........ ........ ........
TOTAL LIUILITIS                                                     105,740  105.510  106.654  M11.679
-onw   imwin  emmm          -
_e      ~  Ratio t - DOM                                            0.43    0.40    0.35    0.33
*Euit                                           0.57    0.60    0.65    0.67
- Avee net fie  at   urefautwd                                  94.554  93.6%   93,8S2
fulty evaluwd                                137.818  1s1,11



-~~                                - 83 -                                         3ZABL3 5.4
-                                                                                                        lU3Pow  2 of 3
TM EARIADOS LIONT & POSER CO. LTD                         Forecarecst Forest Forecst Fore_at Forecast
WORLsD UlKE CNPIEtIu R"PMRT                              1980    1981    1982       193     1984    1985
....    ....  .    ....   ....  .    .... ........ ..... ..
tabl 5.4. UKPC Balance    ts
ASSTS
*          Patnt In operation                                  168,493 256,595 337.115  416,423 464,941 55M4,5U
Lenss accuulatd d p etation                        (37,867) (63,.59) (17,776) (55*19)(117*142)(142,858O
.......    ......... .......    .......... .......    .............. ..... ..............
Not fixed asaets                                   130,462  193.000 249.339 321,404 3.7,.9 411,7124
work In progress                                    12,820   50.279  50*500   19,335  41,4?!  15. 3
*          Current Assets:
-        Cah: Operatiot reirt                                   119     135      153      173      195      65
teapwery surplus (dicit)                           ar       702    (796)    (85)  77m   20,064
Accunts receivable                                  13.745   14.643   1S.S3   16.92   20.989  25,161
_        materials and suppies                                7293    8,211   10.468   13.326  14,8T    17.755
Prepaid epensa                                         156      156      156     156      156      156
., w ............................. ....... .......... ....... .......... .......
Total                                21,530   23.847   25,518  .30522  ",I490   ",7at
Deferred charges                                       376      176      ff       45        0        0
other deferred assets                                   93 93             n       93       93       93
: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ........ ....... ...!.... ....... ............ .................
469     269       88      138       93       93
TOTAL ASStS                                           165.453  267.395  32S.545  371.399 433,555  490.97S
-as=   wave==  wspu    -ae    sewfin 
LBILtlIEti
Equity: Capital stock                               29,924  29,924   29,924  34,924  34.924  34.924
Shae rodeption                                 375      so5     625      75       s75    1000
Appraisal value                             70.027  133.476  1S4.087  176,386 206,463  23.234
sweisl reser                                     0                0        0        0        0
Retained earnings                             (241)    385    3.757   9.367   17.310  31,34
Total                                             00,oS5s 164.285  188.393  221.427 259.572 305,502
9         Long-term debt                                      36.994   70,89?  99.784  106.491  117,375  116.903
Currant Liabilities:
h"  overdraft                                       10,000   6.500    2.700   2.500    1.200         0
Accounts Payable & accrued liabilities               r,8o    9.6s, a   1       11.838 1  130,ss    16.558
other Currant                                           50       50       50       50      50       50
Corporation t" payble                                    0        0        0       0   6.047   11.79
.......    .......... .......    .......... .......    .............. .....................
Total                                             17.918   16.181  14.340   14,388  21.254  28,407             -
Ofrred credits
AcsAutated deferred tames        )                    ,982   14.768   21.985   28,265   34,12  39,51
Acculatated inve tment tax credit)
Unrea led eick  we gans                                988      m        55r     342      153       54
Customers cen  .-itns                                  486      486     486      4E6      486      46
Past serviee pension liability                           0       0        0        0        0        0
....... ......... ....... .......... ....... ..................... ... ...... ...
10,456  16.025  23.028  29.093  35,351  40,081
TOnAL LIASILITIES                                     165.453 267,35  325,545 371,399 433,555  490.9?!
Nmsncanu - Ratio s * ODbt                             0.27    0.30  . 0.35    0.32    0.31    0.20
*quity                           0.73     0.70     0.65    0.68     0.69    o.n
A Aveae net fixed assets  unrevalued  112.320
futly reval 1664.3   183.685  221.170 285,372 334,602 379.762



-84-                                          TAMIE 5.4
~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~Pawe 3 91 3
TME BARGAIS LION  & POW  CO. LIP                      Actual  Actual  ActUal  Actuat   Atult  Actl  Actuat
_ WORU SANK CMLgEtIO   EMT                                       1981    1962    19        194    195        16
Tlas 5.4. ULC  alance shsts
ASSETS
Plent In opration                                 173.8i5  176,594 251.036 259.408  3.93 393.79  404S554
Loses accueltted dpecistlon                       (42.364) (4".80) (49.536) (5,M).102,S60)(114,9M125,i69)
........  ........... ........  ............ ........  ............ ........ ............ ....... ................
Not flxed asts                                    131.521  129,M7  201,500 201,65   M.403 27.76   26,6a
ark In pmrr                                         3,682  47,        4,960    3,179   7,20?   7,.    29,031
Current Asets:
Cash: Operationa   rlrts                              119      695      16      153      142      140     394
Temporary surplus (deficist
Accounts receivable                                11,370   10,056   9,740   12,343   12,228   6,"62    ?,R02
Materilse and suppt I.                             12,3S0   9*4J3   14,2U   12.596  12,792   12,340  12,533
Prapaid expenses                                     *166      268    1,331     117      514      472     315
...... ......... ................. ........ .................
Total                               24.213  20,522  25.512  25.209  25,676  21,794   21,044
-         Deferred charwe                                     1,005   3,15S   5,410   4.230   3,509   4,005   3,474
Othew  d.frred ests
.                 ~~~~~........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........
1-006   3,1S5    S,410   4,230   3,509   4.008   3,476
TOTAL ASSEtS                                         160.422 201.246 237,402  234.273   11,79   312,13  332,416
- -   - - - - -   - - - - - ---
LIASILITES8
Equity: Capitot stock                              31,084  32.644   32.644  40.024  40,043  40,065  53,S22
Share redeeptin                       .       375      S00      625     7S0      875    1.000   1,125
Appraisal value                            56.809  54,407  51.472  49.049  123.662  120.009  116,324
Special reserve                                 0        0        0   2,S3   5.081    6.305   12.047
Retained ernings                            5.916   7,723   10.622   4,931    9.758   14,16    9,016
,................ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........
Total                                            94,994  ss,274   9S,363  97,207  179.419  183,62S 192,036
Lena-tem debt                                      31.916  77,483  98,725  66,199   76.687  71,081  60.361
Current Liabilitless
S"  overdraft                                      11.277    1,SS9   9,633   4,676    1,W0    1,791   4,651'-
_         IAccmts Payable & accrued liabilities               S,366    8.094   9,622   6,736    7692    8.604   9,019
Othr Current
Crporation tax pyable                               2,197        0       0        0    1,537   3,860    1.000
........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........
Total                                            16.642    9.653   19,2S!  10416   11Jo1  14,255   14,670
Deferrd eredit:
Accwlated defred ta              )                 12,213   11.420  12,810  22.415   27,S.6  31,175  33,529
AccAmalat.d ifrvetment tea credit)                  1,050   505    6,673   6.940    7,251    7.90o   9.356
Uwuallsad exchae gIns                               1071    1,919   4.29m    s.7       9,186   3.S39    1.778
Custome  cntributiw                                   336      402     281      316    s57        5        46
Pest srvice psion liability
................... ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ................. _ 
14.670  18,636  24,059  3S.4S1   44,S80  43.176  4S,32
TOTAL LIAUILITIes                                    160.422 201,26 237.42  234,273  311.,M   31.137 332.416
- _     -                               -          -B 
IMh_en- Ratio s - Dbt                                0.25    0.45    0.51      0.46     0.30     0.28    0.30
- Equity                         0.75    0.55    0.49      O.S2    0.70    o.7       0.70
- Avera  net flied asts: vetlud
fully revel      -           20.622  26S,998  M,196  277,0   M,12



- 85 -
PART III
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1940-BAR)



- 86 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBDAOS
BARBADOS LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY
LOAN 1940-BAR
PART III
1.     Related Bank Loans
Loan                                       Year of
Title              Purpose                Approval        Status       Comments
Technical          1. Agricultural            1982       Completed   Project resulted
Assistance         Diversification                       1985        in energy conser-
(Loan 2115-BAR)                                                      vation unit being
formed in Ministry
(USS2.5m)          2. Assist Govmt. in                               of Finance and
establishment of                                 assisted in
energy conservation                              determining energy
plan, and implementa-                            pricing policies
tion unit, financing                             and energy
energy conservation                              efficiency
program, and project                              improvements
preparation.                                                     B



- 87 -
2.   Project Timetable
Date                 Date               Date
Item             Planned               Revised           Actual
Preparation mission                                           3/79
Appraisal Mission                                             12/79
Reappraisal 1/                                                 4/80
Loan Negotiations                                             11/80
Board Approval                                                1/81
Loan Signature                                                2/81
Loan Effectiveness                                            11/81
Loan Completion       6/30/85               6130/86 2/        6/30/87
6/30187 21        6/30/87
PCR Mission           12185                 12/87             4/89
1/ Reappraisal required because of changes in financing plans.
2/   The Loan closing date was extended twice to allow BLPC to disburse in
accordance with the revised lower investment program, which was
prepared in consultation with the Bank.



- 88 -
3.    Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(millions of US$'s equivalent)
Actual                            Actual as
IBRD                   Disburse-         Appraisal       2 of Appraisal
Fiscal Year            ments              Estimate       Estimate
1981              0.0                0.4                  0
1982              0.0                2.4                  0
1983              1.1                4.1                  27
1984              2.4                5.4                  31
1985              2.8                6.0                  47
1986              2.8                6.0                  52
1987              3.4                6.0                  57
1988              3.7                6.0                  62
Closing Date:  June 30, 1987 plus 6 month grace period.
Date of Final Disbursement: December 14, 1987
Comment
Actual loan disbursement was lower than US$6.0 million because US$2.0
million were cancelled from the loan in November 1986 to account for a
lower investment program, and later cancellation of an undisbursed remanent
of US$0.31 million in the loan account at final closing date in December
1987.



- 89 -
4. Project Implementation
Start             Complete
Contract            Construction/         Construction/
Item                  Award                   Contract              Contract
SAR   Actual          SAR   Actual        SAR    Actual
1. Primary Feeders
A. 24 Kv Lines       4/81   2/82         8/81   7.82         7/84   12/87
B. Tran 'ormers      4/81   1/81         1182   10/82       9/84   12/83
2. Distribution
Transforme :        4/81   11/81       11/81  7/82         9184   12/87
3. Capacitors           7/81   12/81        3182   9/82         10/84  12/87
4. Service Wire         4/81   S/82         11/81  8182         12/84  12/87
5. Engineering Studies
A. Generation
Planning        3/81   6/81         4/81   6/81         12/81  8/82
B. Energy
Conservation    5/81   7/81         6/81   9/81         3/82   7/82
C. Tariff Study      5/81   3/82         6/81   3/82         3/82   1/83
D. PUB Operating
Procedures      12/80  -            1/81   late 80      4/81   7/81
E. Criteria for
Rates           8(81   -            9/81   mid 84       6/82   11/84
Comment
Project implementation was postponed In accordance with revised demand
projection, in consultation with the Bank.



- 90 -
5. Proiect Cost and flnancina
A. Proiect Costs
SAR Estimate                       Actual
(millions of US$'s)
Prolect Comoaoent
Foreian   Local   Total       Foreign    Local  Total
24 KV Feeders                 1.75      0.61    2.36        1.40       0.50     1.80
Distribution Trnsfonmers      1.31      0.24    1.55        1.90       0.50     2.40
Service-Vire                  0.36      0.19    0.55        0.16      0.20      0.36
Capacitors                    0.02      0.01    0.03        0.07       0.03     0.10
Studies                       0.75      0.11    0.86        0.43                0.45
Total Base Cost               4.19      1.16    5.35
Physical Contingsncies        0.34      0.09    0.43
Price Contiqencies            l.S0      0.71    2                        -2
Total Project Cost            6.03      1.96    7.99       3.98        1.23     5.21
B. Proiect Financing
SAR Estimate                     Actual
(millions of US$'s)
Foreign  Local Total   2    Foreiz   Local  Total    S
IBRD loan                   6.00       -    6.00    75    3.68       -      3.66     71
Internal cash-5neration    0.03    1.66   1.99    25    0.30       1.2S    1.53      29
6.03    1.66   7.99    100   3.98      1.23    5.21     100
Comment
The Project cost partallly financed by the Bank decreased by US$2.78 mdllion due
to lower lnvestmnt progrm caused by lower expected demand growth.



- 91 -
C. Investment Program
Actual      %         SAR        2
1980-87             1980-87
(millions of US$'s)
INVESTMENT REQUIREMENTS
Construction requirements       81.4         88       95.6        78
Interest during construction    4.4           5        4.8         4
85.8        93       100.4       82
Change in Working Capital        6.7          7       21.3        18
Total                           92.5        100      121.7       100
FINANCING
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development  3.7           4        6.0         5
Caribbean Development Bank         0          0        6.0         5
Commonwealth Development Corp.  9.2          10       11.7        10
European Invest. Bank            2.4          3        7.1         6
Supplier Credits                   0          0       33.2        27
Svenska Handelsbanken           26.6         29          -         -
Sparbankernas I Swedbank         8.7          9          -         -
Other Loans                        0          0        5.9         5
Royal Bank of Canada             8.5          9          -         -
Sale of Shares                   5.0          5        5.0         4
Internal Cash Generation        28.4         31       46.8        38
92.5       100       121.7      100
Comment
The total 1980-1987 investment program decreased by US$29.2 million because
of lower total investment required to meet lower than expected demand growth.
This caused cancellation of the CDB loan, and part of the European Investment
Bank, CDC, and IBRD loans.



- 92 -
6.     Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
6.1    The principal direct benefits of the project arose from the
additions to generation and distribution facilities which enabled BLPC to
meet the growing demand for electricity as shown by the followings
A C T U A L              SAR I/
Increase             Increase
1980       1987        z         1985         2
Energy sales (GWh)           282.1       388.6     37.8        423.0     30.0
Net Generation (GWh)         312.3       426.1     36.4         --        -
Peak Demand (MW)              52.5        73.8     40.5         81.2     54.7
Number of customers
Domestic               60,800     71,128        17.0    71,700        17.9
Other                   6,862      8,184        19.3     7,400         7.9
T o t a 1.                67,662      79,312       17.2    79,100
11  SAR figures were prepared to 1385 only and were based on a projected
average annual 1980-85 growth of 7.62 per annum compared to an actual
average annual growth rate of 3.52 during the same period.
B. Economic Impact
6.2      The IERR was calculated in the SAR for the 1980-85 investment
program. The IERR was recalculated on the same basis as the SAR using
actual investment costs, incremental fuel and operations and maintenance
costs, and incremental energy sales related to the investment program.
However, as the investment program was extended to adjust a lower demand
growth, and Bank financed components were not completed until 1987, the
IERR was calculated for the 1980 to 1987 period.
6.3      Costs and benefits were converted to constant 1979 Barbados
Dollars (BD$'s) using the Unit Value Index of Manufacturing Exports (MUV
Index prepared by the Bank for foreign costs and the Consumer Price Index
published by the Central Bank of Barbados for local costs.



- 93 -
6.4      The IERR is recalculated at 21.72 (Annex 1) compared to the SAR
estimate of 13.5?. The higher return is mainly attributable to lower fuel
costs, and the use of new high-efficiency equipment in electricity
generation. This more than offset the reduction in incremental sales
caused by the lower than expected load growth.
C. Financial Impact
6.5      Comments
BLPC's actual financial performance is compared with the appraisal
forecast in Annex 2.
BLPC managed its cash resources well during project implementation
so that timely finance was available to meet its investment needs. Cash
resources were tight in 1982, but a rate increase boosted basic average
tariff revenues (excluding the fuel clause adjustment) by around 452.
Mainly as a result of this increase and the growth in kWh sold, no further
tariff increases were needed during project implementation. Total average
electricity rates in 1987 were in current terms only about 6? higher than
those for 1980. The Barbados Consumer-Price Index increased by about 50S
during the same period. Real electricity prices were reduced because of
lower fuel surcharges resulting from reduced oil prices and lower fuel
usage for electricity generation. BLPC's cash flow was accelerated by
effective revenue collections which reduced the number of days outstanding
receivables from 55 at the end of 1980 to a low of 31 in 1987. Rates of
return on revalued net fixed assets between 1980 and 1987 ranged from a low
of 52 in 1982 to a high of 8.6? in 1983. In 1988 BLPC financed its capital
spending of about US$7 million from internal cash generation and eliminated
its bank overdraft. Debt service coverage and the debt/equity ratio were
at strong levels of 2.1 and 18/82 in 1988.



- 94 -
D. Studies
StudZ          Purpose as Defined at    Status          Impact of Study
Appraisal
To render advice and    Completed   Assisted in revision
Generation Planning   recommendations to                    of generation program.
BLPC concerning
technical and economic
aspects of generation
schemes.
Energy Conservation   To assist country in    Completed   Company undertook
its goal to reduce                   consumer education
dependance on imported               resulting in
petroleum.                           improvements through
such measures as
better insulation,
controls on air-
conditioning systems
and use of more energy
efficient appliances.
Tariffs               To assist in             Completed   Government and BLPC
developing marginal                  did not consider
cost-based tariff.                   revisions imperative,
but will consider the
recommendations in any
future structural
changes in tariff.
Public Utilities      To provide               Completed   No consensus could be
Board (PUB)           recommendations for                   reached in Govt. as to
operating procedures  speeding-up PUB                       recommendations.  No
and criteria for      decision-making                       PUB hearings have been
determining power     process. To provide                   held since 1982
rates.                recommendations for                   because BLPC good
criteria to be used in               financial position did
determining level and                not require tariffs
structure of tariffs.                review by the
Government.



- 95 -
7.    Status of Covenants
Loan Agreement (LIA)
Guarantee
Agreement (G/A)             Subiect                        Status
5.09           BLPC to issue two           One million shares issued at
(L/A)          million shares, to          BD$5 each as condition of
nationals or residents    effectiveness.  Issue of
in Barbados, one million  remaining one million shares
by December 31, 1983.      postponed to August 87 in
accordance with BLPC's cash
needs.
3.02 (b)         Government to furnish       Bank comments on draft prepared
G/A           Bank with study on          by consultants were submitted
criteria for operating    early 1982.  However, despite
procedures of the Public  Bank requests, the final study
Utilities Board.           (which was completed in 1984
including Bank's comments) was
not furnished. Apparently, no
consensus was reached by
Government on recommendations of
study and no official position
was taken on tis
recommendations.
5.05 (L/A)         Rate of Return             Bank accepted rates of return of
5 to 7Z which were lower than
the 8Z covenanted because they
were adequate for BLPC's cash
needs. Also, BLPC's overall
financial performance was
generally good during project
implementation.



- 96 -
8.                             Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
From project identification in FY79 to completion of supervision in FY87
a total of 121.8 staff weeks were expended on the project as follows:
Stage of Project Cycle             Number of staff weeks                Percentage
Up to appraisal                              6.5                             5
Appraisal through Board approval            70.9                            58
Supervision                                 44.4                            37
T o t a 1                             121.8                           100
In the absence of precise information, estimated allocations have been
made of the time spent on activities up to Board approval.



_ 97 w
B. Missions
Special     Performance
Stage of        Month/    No. of    Days in        ization        Rating       Type
Proiect Cycle      Year      Persons    Field      Represented      Status    of Problem
Preparation         2178         1           5         E
- do -              2/79         3           5         E/PA/DDC
Pre-appraisal        7/79        3           11        E/VAIES
Appraisal            11179       2           10        E/FA
Re-appraisal         4180        2           10        E/FA
Supervision          1181        1           5         FA                 1
- do-               10/81        2          9          E/VA               1
- do -               11/82       2           7         B/VA               2      Financial
- cash
shortage
- do -              1184         2           5         E/VA               1
- do -              7/84         2          4          E/PA               1
- do -              3/87         1           4         FA                 1
PCR                  4189        1           7         VA                 1
E   -  Engineer
FA     F Pinancial Analyst
DDC - Deputy Division Chief
ES - Energy Specialist



- 98 -
iwaotmd code         ro*tm (alm 19MM
_~i   Rupwt
C    WIallam    i       _
Iwtunt 0.t            tinaumitul Incuut
|11~ ~          uI IS   rati   4X Nit               1wutu ft
Lwan      Farsip       Tow       CMt    WaltmI bWft Ito  is ts    3.f6   Tariff
__du.  of 17 i     30 x                                 it)    M3k h)
I1        2314      134      7446                                     -744
IM1      1204    306        40            11         1101    4017  -39760          19.0   21.14
195       74    p419        m          -340         -174     SW    -21CM         21O    19.51
i13       1712      2        4          -p16         3043    74        5621       3.3    21.63
193                7364       42       -7.3            9      972      4W         45.8    20.90
15        2924     9799     127        -2M1          3041    9019    a4           52.2    111
1%        415    1799    2734          -16o          412    1170       249        739    14"
17        264       0          1       -16           431     173      2MI20       10       14.27
193                                    -1409         43      23    =1            12.0    t4.2
ih                                     -149          41    256        3 3        13.9    146
i19                                    -1604         4171       63    3          1.    14.27
191                                    -1694         43t   Zia        76         15.9    14.21
192                                    -1609         4V7         5      3        13.9   16.27
i                                      -19           4W71    236        3        13L.      14.2
199                                    -104          W41       36     3          13.9       4.2
19                                     -14           4671    25i3 M   A11.9    1427
1994                                   -16094        471    MU        34         1.    14.7
1"7                                    -1 4           W61  ; 0    31              15.9  I.2
19                                     -109          4371       6     34         159    14.7
199                                    -160          4671    2:33     361        1M.9    16.27
200                                    -1604          671    M        34          1359    14.2
2001                                   -16           461    2 5    3              115.9   1627
2053                                   -"A"          4671   2tl       36          19         .7.n
203                                    -169           61    25D       3W          159    16.27
4                                      -1604         467I    5365O    am          1.       14.27
205         09     179       204       -1409471    2 S    39                      15.9    1647
20       102    24          53         -1609         461    2M         IM        1359    14.2
2007      571    1II    2172           -1604          67     253      14414       11L9    14.27
200        103      317       425      -1609         467      36      3611        1559    11.27
20w     -137   -7m         - 1         -16094        41  2 4          9M7         19    1447
Ilntuu7 rib d rutn   0.U7G9



oWbaos, Lit an POW Cany
Incu Statements 1990-1998
(thusands of crrent 04)
1990             1991               1992              1983              1981               1915          1986     1997     1B
St*    ktual    SW    Actual    SkR Actual                                                                         k Actual    SI    Atual  S  t   Atul  ktua  ctal
Final sales (A)              293.6  282.10   316.2   301.1   340.2   307.7   365.9   317.4   393.5   327.9                423   334.3       36    399.6   411.1
Aeage Tariff Renue           14.13   13.87    14.59    13.90    16.49    14.77    18.20    21.39   21.27    21.28       23.26    21.30    21.25   21.10    21.18
basic                        11.90    12.69    14.28    13.96    16.14    13.47    14.74    11.57   16.75    12.05      19.15    9.96      6.42     7.06    5.73
Fuel clause                  25.93   26.56    29.86    27.76    32.63    29.24    33.02    32.96    38.02   3333        42.41    31.26   27.67   28.24    26.91
Total
Operating Revenes
Basit                      41476    39115   46102   41551    5609    45439   66894    67           93708   69767      9403   71219    7i50    912311    8707
Fuel Clause                34642   311   45160    41967   54893   41444    5S919    .6719   65918   39526             81I03    33309   22965   274U    232
Miscellmeous                 245      262      257      255      270      368      283      467      297      744       312      547      797      903      meG
Total                   763      75198   91519   83773   111251   872SI   121086   105068   149923  1100H 7    179718   105075   99312   110550   111507
Operating Expenses
Fuel                       41760   43310    51558   49839   62319   49494    61345   45166   73344   48132            88429   42194   32263   3770        344
Operations & Mainteance    14440   14292    17298    17917    20470   17794   23211    23M3    26347   25455          2846    25695   27905   30091   29499
Depreciation                6195    6199       364     6276    9417   M7         12005    954    15283   1460          17J63   15459   17910    15230   1710
Othr non-cash                201               200                91                50                45
Taxes-Corperatien                    1294                 0                 0                 0    6047      1537      1179     4190    3230    32         29
-Other                  920      766      945      779    1270    1124       1645     1136    2090    2184        2200    1975      1991     1997    3562
Total                   63516   65841    79355   74710   93557   76133   995           7"93   123146   91938    1497   E93            329    80310   91488
Operating Income             12947    9347    13164      9f3    17694    11118   22930   25505   26777   180            30381    15572    16013   22232   2D019
Plus Invetent Incame          If       IS       11        9       11      140       11       35       11      2099               6 52 16          -1        In
SainkLoss an exchange        218      295      217      542      215      596      215      609      189      383      39        676       23    -161   -2929
Less: deferred taxes       -7766   -2256   -2436        793   -4151    -139   -4346   -9605   -4331   -5151            37       360      2354   -47       -29
Invest.tax cred. deferral  -1216    -65    -3350    -4044   -3066    -2319   -1934    -267   -2116    -310            -1079    -65    -1455        211    -106
Cancellation charges                                                     -4k
Net Income before interest    4094    6742    7606    6363    10703    M4    16776   1637    20530    13226             25662    12042    12243   17590    167
Less Intersest charged to
operations               2605    2307    3665    3327    4363    5406    9299    10668    9490    9064 7                      M       6763    8125    7260
Overdraft interest        1469    I1S9       784      891      437      331      247      727      176      169         57      115     373    1147        Zs
Met Income                      20    2580    3157    2155    5903         1997    8241      4962    10874    4451       16965    4091     5107    8318    9369



Barbados Light and Power Cc:pany
Sorces and Uses of Fuds 1901998
(thousands of current BDSs)
1980              1991               1992               1983              1984             1915            1996     1997     1999
SAR    Atual      SM    Aktual      SM    Aktual       SP    Actual      SAR    Actual    SAR    ktual   ktual   ktual  Actual
Interna' Sources
Net Incee  bef. interest              4094      6742     7606     6363    10703     M4    16776    16357    20530    13226    25662    12042    12243    17590    165
Depreciation                          6195     6199      M364     6276     9417     Ml    12005       9546    15233    14630    17063    15459    17910    t53        17188
Other non-cash ovpense                 201       316      200      316       91      374       50      1440       45     1638        0      094      1273     1560     1533
Def.tax and inv tax cred                2      2915      576      32I    7217       3709     6280     9972      647      5461     4829     4259     3         4496     2935
Aort of exch. gain                    -349      -377    -217      -29    -215       -2        -215     -525     -189     -499      -99    -1045    -219          9      132
Custows  contributions                  99      1034     1139     153      1287      951      1455     1432     1644     1590     1957      1560     1293     2023     1947
Total                             20123    16629    22979    17230    28490    199       36351    39122    43760    .604      49312    33169    36309    408       40592
0perational Requirements
Chanes in other assets &  liabs                  653              2467              2627               259                195               1393      371     463    -13D4
Debt Aortization                      494      4618      4818     4784     4573     4195    11569    14711    13415    14707    12979    10209    9660    10759    11953
Interest charged to Operations        2605     2307      3665     3327     4363     5406     89       10668    9490        M      BUO      7856    6763    8OM         7260
Overdraft interest                    1469    t1o5        794      8B1      437      331      247       727      176      169       57      115      373      1147      229
Dividends                             2106      2054     2406     2623     2406     2639     2506      3119    2906      3967    2806      3969      3971     4510     4711
Total                               11129    1167    11673    14092    11779    15198    22610    29484    25877    27634    24482   23522    21138    29204    22748
Met Internal cah generation             9995     5142    11205      3148    16711     4658    13741     99    17993        8412   24830    964        15171    1168     17814   -
lorking Capital Requireents
Changes in orking capital
except overdraft                   3350     2394        62    -4220     1217    3462      4045      591    -2955       -24    -9       -7117      1695     2558    -599
Oerease (Inrease1   in overdaft      7299     6012     350       9719     3800   -9074       200     4955      1300     2799     100        99    -290       1370     321
increase (decrease) in
temprary cash surplus                217                485             -1498               711               857              12092
Sub-total                       108S6     9406     4047      5499     3519   -4612      4956     SS36     6402      2774    12438   -7028   -1165       39NA      262
Construction requiremnts
Proposed Project                         0         0     3723        0     5037     3656     3519      1155     3716     1179        0      404      653
Othe Works                           15902     9453    40643    48252    37917    20    27043         9077    M023    1128    22889    1600        32111    14279    15191
Interest during construction            72       93      1513     1979     3638     4798     149        67      844       363     2097      299     1015      303
Sub-total                       15974     9536   45979    50130    46592    37704    32061       9299    353    12i31    24976    16696    3377m     14201    15191
Total working capital ad
Construction Requiremnts           26730    17942    49926   556        50111    33092    37017    14935   41785    1505    37414    966         3614   1959    17173
Balance to finance                     17735    12800    3721    52490    33400    28434    23276       6197    23902      7193    12584       21    17443    6925         29
Finaned by: loans                      7735     7900    39721    52480    33400    2B434    23276      6197    23902     7173    12584        0    17418    1806
s Equity                            5000                                                                        20                21       25    5019        29g X
Total       17735    12900   39721    52480    33400    29434   23276        6197   23902      7193    12584        21    17443    61M5        29Y 



arDados L3gnt and PoWer LOIMy
Balance Sheets -190-1988
ithousands of current DOSs)
1980              1981               1982               1903              1984              1985           199b     1997      IS
SR    Aktual      SAR    Atual      SAR    ktual       SAR    Actual    SM       ktual      S A c ktual   ktual   kctual  Actual
ASSETS
Plant in Operation                   168493   173M85   256593   176594   327115   251036   416423   259408   4b4941    m963  55452   393739   404554  457205   489347
Less:  ccumulated Depreciation       37867    42364    63593    4t805    77776   49536    95019    57753   117142   102560   142858   114977   125691   140000   161770
Net fixed assets                     130626   131521   193000   129799   249339   201500   321404   201655   347799   275403   4112r4   2707b2   27863   31!20B   327577
Work in Progress                      12928     3682    50279    47780    50500     4990    19335      3179    41473     7207    15'75      7573     1344     1344    2463
Current Assets
Cash: required for operations           119      119      135      695      153       159      173      153      195       142     645       140      394      441    4334
:temporary surplus                 217                702              -796               -85               7972             20W4
Akcounts receivable                   13745    11370    14643    10056    15537     9740    16952    12343    20989    12228    25161       S,42    79(2    10624    10736
Iaterials & Supplies                  7293    12558      9211     9483    10468    14293    13326    12596    14878    12792    17755    12340   IZ33        2 I51    5
Prepaid Expenses                        156      166      156      288      156      1331      156      117      156      514       156      472      315     1444      282
Total                         21530    24213    23847    20522    25518    '5512       522    25209    44190        76    63M781    214    2104       25060    30
Other Assets
Deferred Charges                       376      1006      176     3155       95     5410        45     4230       93     3509               4008     3478    10104    6217
Other Deferred Assets                   93                 93                93                93                                   93
TOTAL ASSETS                          365453   160422   267395   20124b   325545   237402   371399   234273   433555   311795   490973   312137   304729   348713   36617
LIARILITIES
Equity:  Capital Stock               29924    31894    29924    32644    29924    32644    34924    40024    34924    40043    34924    40065    522    59542   5WWI1
Appraisal Surplus                    70027    56809   133476    5407   154087    51472   176386    49049  206463   1323    238234   120099   116324   It75    1308PI
Retained Earnings                     -241      5916      385     7723     3757    10622      9367     7384    17310    14839    31344    22471    21065    31683    43U6
Share  edeeWtion reserve               375       375      500      500      625      625       750      750      875      875     1000      1000     1125     1250     1375
Total                        10085    94994   164285    95274   198393    95363   221427    97207   2592   179419   305502   183625   192036   2          6  234407
Long-term debt                         36994    31916    70897    77483    99784    98725   106491    83199  1131B    76687   116983    71081    8038    76btS    63872
Current Liabilities
cconts payable & accrued liabs        7868      5368     9638     8094    11590     9622    11838      9738    13957     7692    16558    9604       9019    10146    1291
Corporation taxes payable                       2197                                                            67       1537    11799      80       1000     1331     47
Other current                           50                 50                50                                   50                50
Overdraft                             10000    11277     6500     1559     2700     9633    2500       4678     1200     1890        0     1791     4651    3281          0
Total                         17919    18842    16198      9653    14340    19255    14388    13416   21254    11109   28407    14255    14670    14759    1706
Deferred taxes & investment tax         8992    13263    14768    16515   21985    19483    28265    29355   347:2    34817   39541    39075    42995    47381    50317
credit
Other Liabilities
Unrealized Exchange gain               9B3     1071      771     1919      557     4295       342     5780      153     9186       54     3539      1779
Customer contributions                486       336      486      402      486      281      486       316      486      577      486      562      666      690       645



Oarbados Light and Power CospanV                                        Are  2
Key financial indicators 1990-1999                                      Table 4
1980              1981               1982              1983              1994             1995           1996     1981     1998
SA     Actual     SAP  Aktual       SAR     ctual    SAR    kctual      SAR   Actual    SAR   ktual   ktual   Actual   Actual
Rate of return X                7.2              9.00      5.3    8.00      4.93     8.00     9.59     8.00     6.86    8.0       5.e8     5.76     7.52     6.26
Operating Ratio %                83       8        86       89       84       87       8        76       82       94       g3       95       84       s        82
Current Ratio                   1.2      1.3      1.5      2.1      1.8       1.3      2.1      1.9      2.1      2.3     2.2      1.5      1.4      0.9         1
Debt service coverage           2.2      l.t      2.1      1.6      2.1      1.3      1.7      1.5       1.8      1.5     2.1      1.9        2        2      2.1
Debt/Equity ratio             27/73    22/75    30/n0    45/55   35/65    49/51    32/68    49/52   31/69    30/70   2M          28m      3070    24/76    18M2
Receivables (days)               66       55       58       44       St       41       S1       43       St       41       Sl       31       29       31        5
Contribution to investment       37       29       24       15       33        3       30       97         o              10;      100       40    62.6    121.4



