Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2908-BAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE BARBADOS LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF BARBADOS
FOR A
POWER PROJECT
November 24, 1980
This' document has a redstcted distributln ud may be used by recipients enly in the pelfornce of
their official duties. Its cotents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank anthor ccon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =           Barbados Dollar (BD$)
US$1                          BD$2
BD$l             =            US$0.50
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BLPC      -  Barbados Light and Power Company Limited
CARICOM   -  Caribbean Common Market
CDB-      -  Caribbean Development Bank
CDC       -  Commonwealth Development Corporation
CDF       -  Caribbean Development Facility
CIDA      -  Canadian International Development Agency
CI Power  -  Canadian International Power Company
EIB       -  European Investment Bank
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
LPG       -  Liquified Petroleum Gas
NGC       -  Natural Gas Corporation
PCI       -  Power Consultants International
RBC       -  Royal Bank of Canada
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW        =  kilowatt
MW        =  megawatt = 1,000 kW
kWh       =  kilowatt hour
kV        =  kilovolt
m         =  meter = 3.28 feet
mcf       =  million cubic feet
km        =  kilometer = 0.621 mile



BARBADOS                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower: The Barbados Light and Power Company Limited (BLPC)
Guarantor: Barbados
Amount:    US$6.0 million equivalent
Terms:      Payable in 15 years, including a grace period of 3 years
at  9.25%  interest  per  annum.       In  addition,  the
Government will charge BLPC a guarantee fee in the form
of a share issue equivalent to the present value of
0.75% interest per annum on the outstanding amount of
the Bank loan.
Project
Description: The project is part of BLPC's expansion program to
meet the electricity needs of Barbados up to 1985.
The principal objectives of the program are:
(a)  expansion of the existing generation, transmis-
sion and distribution systems to meet projlected
demand throughout the period;
(b)  improvement  of  plant  efficiency  to  reduce
specific fuel consumption and relative cost per
generated kilowatt hour (kWh);
(c)  improvement of the transmission and distribution
systems by utilization of appropriate design to
keep energy losses at a minimum;
(d)  improvement of BLPC's institutional capability
by developing long range planning for generation
and plant; and
(e)  undertaking an energy conservation program and
maximizing the use of indigenous energy resources
such as gas and bagasse.
The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of distribution com-
ponents that are not being financed by other sources. In addition it would
finance the foreign exchange costs of studies for energy conservation,
generation expansion and tariff structure. With the purpose of establishing
appropriate regulations for determining power rates in Barbados, and of
streamlining the review process of applications for new rates.! the loan would
finance the cost of experts who would undertake to determine appropriate
operating procedures for the Public Utilities Board (PUB) which regulates
utilities in Barbados and to establish criteria for setting power rates. The
project faces the risk of possible hurricane damage since Barbados is located
in the Caribbean hurricane belt.   To minimize this risk the transmission
system will be designed to withstand 120 mile per hour winds..
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: (the proposed Bank project)
(US$ million equivalent)
Foreign    Local    Total
24 kV Primary Feeder Conversions                   1.7          0.6       2.3
Distribution Transformers                          1.3          0.3       1.6
Service Drops & Capacitors                         0.4          0.2      0.6
Consulting Services & Studies                      0.8          0.1      0.9
Total Base Cost                                 4.2          1.2      5.4
Physical Contingencies                             0.3          0.1       0.4
Price Contingencies                                1.5          0.7       2.2
Total Cost                                    6.0          2.0      8.0
Financing Plan (1980-85 Expansion Program):
US$ million            %
Investment Requirements
Generation                                         58.0               48
Transmission                                        6.1                5
Substations                                         8.7                7
Distribution (includes proposed Bank project)   22.8                  19
Interest during Construction                        4.8                4
Subtotal                                        100.4               83
Working Capital                                  21.3               17
Total                                           121.7              100
Financing
Suppliers' Credits                                 33.3               27
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)         11.7               10
European Investment Bank (EIB)                      7.1                6
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)                    6.0                5
IBRD                                                6.0                5
Internal Cash Generation                           46.7               38
Sale of Shares                                      5.0                4
Royal Bank of Canada (RBC)                          5.9                5
Total                                           121.7              100
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ million equivalent)
Bank   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
Annual                    0.4    2.0    1.7    1.3    0.6
Cumulative                0.4    2.4    4.1    5.4    6.0
Rate of Return: 13.5% rate of return for BLPC's 1980-85 investment program
Staff Appraisal Report No. 3137b-BAR of November 17, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE BARBADOS LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF BARBADOS
FOR
A POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$6.0 million to Barbados Light and Power Company,
Limited with the guarantee of Barbados for a power project.  The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace with interest at 9.25%
per annum. The Government of Barbados would charge a guarantee fee equivalent
to 0.75% interest per annum charged on the outstanding amount of the loan
bringing the effective cost of the loan to BLPC to 10.0%.   The Government and
BLPC agreed that payment of the fee would be in the form of a share issue
equivalent to the present value of the guarantee fee.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Barbados" (No. 2967-BAR),
dated May 30, 1980 was distributed to the Executive Directors on June 4, 1980.
Another Economic Mission visited Barbados in November 1980, and its report is
under preparation. Annex 1 contains the basic country data.
Background
3.        Barbados  is among  the most  densely populated countries  in the
world, with a total area of 166 square miles and a population of 254,000.
It's relatively high per capita GNP, small size, and geographical isolation
have contributed to the building of a homogeneous, close-knit society, with a
relatively equitable income distribution and a long history of constitutional
government.   Beautiful beaches and mild weather presently attract almost
400,000 tourists annually, providing the single most important contribution
to GDP. A well-educated, easy to train and competitively priced labor force
has served as the base for the rapid development of export-oriented manufac-
turing in the last decade.  Soil, topography and rainfall patterns are well
suited for growing sugarcane, which once dominated the economy and continues
to be the main agricultural product.
4.        Barbados has a relatively well developed economic infrastructure,
with a good road system, jet-accommodating airport, deepwater harbor and
public utilities which are run efficiently. Pockets of petroleum and natural
gas supply about 14% of domestic energy consumption.   Education and health
facilities are relatively good; however, a shortage of adequate housing
affects the lower income groups.   Population growth has traditionally been
lower than 1% per annum because of a successful family planning program and a
high emigration rate.



-2-
5.        The structure of the Barbadian economy has undergone significant
changes in the last twenty years.   Agriculture has experienced declining
production levels although, in the last few years, some gains have taken place
in the production of sugar, poultry and vegetables.  In contrast, tourism (in
the 1960's and 1970's) and export manufacturing (in the 1970's) have expanded
rapidly, leading to an average annual growth of real GDP of about 5% during
1966-1979.   Presently, tourism and related services account for about one-
third of GDP as compared with about 11% in 1960, while agriculture accounts
for only 11% of GDP as compared with 25% in 1960.
6.        The rapid growth of tourism and export manufacturing has been due,
to a large extent, to the country's long tradition of political and institu-
tional stability, and to the adoption by the Government of economic and
financial policies that have created a favorable investment climate for both
foreigners and Barbadians.   Sustained high levels of private investment in
tourist accomodations have increased the number of tourist beds from about
2,000 in the early 1960's to almost 12,000 in 1979.  Investment in manufac-
turing has also been substantial during the 1970's, particularly in export
related areas such as electronic assembly and garments.
Economic Performance - 1974-1979
7.        Given its open economy and narrow resource base, Barbados is highly
susceptible to swings in international prices and demand. The 1973 rise in
oil prices and ensuing international developments led to low economic growth
in 1974 (1%), and to stagnation in 1975. Since 1976, assisted by the economic
recovery of the OECD countries and by increased capacity in tourism and
manufacturing, the economy has performed strongly.   Real GDP growth during
1976-1979 averaged 6% annually. Economic growth has been particularly good in
1978 (6.3%) and 1979 (7.2%). This rapid growth has resulted in a substantial
drop in the unemployment rate from about 25% in 1975 to about 13% in 1979.
Inflation has generally followed international price trends.
8.        The adverse impact on the balance of payments of external develop-
ments in 1973-75 was compensated for by the substantial increases in sugar
prices that took place in 1974 and in the first half of 1975.   In 1976,
however, the large drop in sugar prices led--in spite of increased earnings
from  tourism  and manufactured  exports--to  a record  balance  of payments
current account deficit of about 11% of GDP.   In 1977 the Government took
corrective monetary and fiscal measures and this, together with a dynamic
export performance, resulted in a significant improvement in the current
account during 1977-78.   In 1979, increased import prices and volume out-
stripped a strong export performance and the current account deficit
increased to 3.5% of GDP as compared with 2.7% in 1978. As a result of the
improved balance of payments performance since 1976, and of moderate amounts
of external borrowing, Barbados' net foreign exchange reserves increased by
US$45.3 million during 1977-79.   Nevertheless,  at only 1.8 months of mer-
chandise imports, they are relatively low for a small, highly open economy.
9.        As a result of good fiscal management and of improved economic
conditions, public finances, which were relatively weak during FY76/77-
FY77/78, have improved considerably in the last two years.   Public sector
savings during FY75/76-FY79/80 averaged about 4.4% of GDP.



-3-
Development Strategy
10.       Barbados recent rapid economic and export growth has resulted in an
increasing degree of export diversification and in a substantial reduction in
the unemployment  rate.   Nevertheless,  unemployment  remains high and the
economy is still highly vulnerable to external shocks.
11.       The Government's  development  strategy,  as outlined  in Barbados
Development Plan (1979-83) and in recent governmental statements, seeks to
reduce the unemployment rate, to expand and diversify exports, to develop
efficient import substitution activities and to promote structural changes in
agriculture and energy use. As in the past, the Government's strategy rests
upon the continued and sustained growth of private investment--both foreign
and domestic--supported by a modest (8.5% of GDP) but well-balanced public
sector investment program.
12.       Tourism and export manufacturing are expected to continue to be the
leading sectors.  Given a continuation of the favorable investment climate,
the prospects for continued high levels of private investment in tourism and
manufacturing appear good. In the long run, however, the island's small size
will pose physical limitations to continued tourism expansion. Also, over the
longer term it would be desirable to increase the participation of Barbadian
capital and management in new industrial ventures, both to assure equitable
sharing of the benefits of economic growth and to reinforce the development of
Barbadian enterpreneurial skills.
13.       The Government's development strategy places increasing emphasis on
the agricultural sector.  To promote economic growth and exports, maintain
agricultural employment and decrease the food import bill, the Government is
encouraging increased production of non-sugar crops, mainly vegetables, which
have a substantial demand in Barbados, and which are presently imported. To
achieve this aim the Government has initiated a number of measures such as:
a) promoting mechanization to overcome the prevailing scarcity of rural
labor; b) training of available rural labor; c) providing improved technical
assistance to farmers; d) strengthening institutions and supporting services
and; e) adopting policies to incorporate unused agricultural lands.   The
Government is now preparing an action program to strengthen further the insti-
tutions that operate in the agricultural sector, particularly concerning mar-
keting, research, extension, irrigation and credit.
14.       The Government also intends to promote a 15% increase in sugar
production--without increasing the acreage devoted to the crop--through: a)
greater use of mechanization; b) rehabilitation of sugar factories; and c)
improved cultivation techniques.  To achieve this objective, the Government
plans to provide stronger support to the sugar industry, mainly by contri-
buting to: a) the industry's own research program; b) to the renewal of
farmers' equipment; c) the improvement of farm machinery services to small
farmers; and d) to the upgrading of existing factories.
15.       The Government also plans to promote energy conservation and the
development of alternative energy sources such as solar energy aLnd bagasse.
The Government's energy pricing policy is realistic and a start has been made
in:  a) establishing an Energy Planning Unit; b) initiating an elementary
energy accounting system; and c) providing minor fiscal incentives for energy
conservation. The Government is now considering additional actions that may
be undertaken in the near future to strengthen substantially its energy con-



-4-
servation efforts.   Such actions are likely to include:   a) a motivation
campaign; b) advisory services to industry, commerce and domestic consumers;
c) a strengthening of building codes; and d) improving public transportation.
The Government is also studying alternative ways to further promote the deve-
lopment of solar energy and the economic use of bagasse.
Public Sector Investment and Financing
16.       The  composition  of  the  public  investment  program  reflects  the
Government's development priorities.   The authorities plan to increase the
emphasis of public investment on the directly productive sectors, while con-
tinuing efforts toward the improvement of economic and social infrastructure.
In this regard, the Government has given priority to a number of projects in
the agricultural sector.  Several rural development projects, with substan-
tial land tenure reform and irrigation components, have been included in the
program. They aim at promoting more efficient land use, expanding and diver-
sifying agricultural output and providing greater economic security to small
farmers.   With regard to industrial development,  the investment programs
provide for the construction of industrial estates which, coupled with
appropriate incentives, should encourage continued private sector investment.
At the same time, the Government is contemplating or undertaking pilot studies
of agro- and other industries which are anticipated to have strong backward
and forward linkages. In tourism, Barbados is undertaking the Bank-financed
Holiday Village project, which aims to increase hotel capacity and promote the
participation of local entrepreneurs in the industry. The program also pro-
vides for other tourist-related investments, and for investments in trans-
portation, energy, education, health and housing.
17.       The public sector investment program will complement and support
continued high levels of private sector investments. Private sector invest-
ment  is expected  to be particularly high during the period  in tourism,
industry, agriculture and energy, including the proposed expansion of the
Barbados Light and Power Company's generating capacity.
18.       To finance the public sector investment program, which is expected
to average about 8.5% of GDP during FY1980/81-FY1984/85, the Government will
need to maintain high levels of public sector savings.  To encourage higher
productivity and private savings, the Government has recently reduced per-
sonal income taxation by about 1% of GDP but has also increased indirect
taxation by a similar amount.   Thus, if current expenditure growth is con-
tained, it should be possible for the Government to achieve public sector
savings of the order of 5% during the period, sufficient to finance about 55%
of the public sector investment program and to transfer some resources to the
private sector to help finance productive investment.   Net project related
capital inflows are expected to finance another 25%.  The remainder of the
required financing would have to be obtained in the form of program-type
assistance; it is expected that donor countries and institutions which are
Caribbean Group members will find it possible to provide most of such
assistance.
Growth Prospects, Balance of Payments Outlook and Creditworthiness
19.       Mainly as a result of external developments, Barbados' economic
growth has slowed down in 1980.  In spite of a strong performance of sugar
output and, to a lesser extent, of manufacturing, a sharp drop in the growth
of tourism--mainly as a result of a decline in tourism arrivals from North



-5-
America and continental Europe, which has largely offset an increase in
visitors from the United Kingdom and Trinidad and Tobago--will lead to a real
GDP growth of only about 4% in 1980, as compared with 6.9% in 19791.
20.       Although  sugar--both  volume  and  prices--and  other  merchandise
exports have shown strong growth, the slowdown in tourist arrivals will reduce
export earnings growth to 24% in 1980 as compared with 30.2% in 1979.
Imports, meanwhile, have continued to grow sharply--about 30%--as a result of
increased oil and other import prices, of high levels of private and public
investment, and of the rapid expansion of credit to the private sector that
has taken place in spite of the establishment of selective credit: controls.
As a result, the current account deficit of the balance of payments should
increase from about 3.5% of GDP in 1979 to about 7% in 1980. Net official and
private capital inflows are estimated to be large enough to finance the
current account deficit and also to allow for an increase in net international
reserves of the order of US$13.0 million.
21.       Public savings are expected to decline from 6.2% of GDP in FY79/80
to about 4.5% in FY80/81. This is mainly due to the bi-annual wage increase
in the public sector (30%) which took place this year.  That wage increase,
and lesser increases in interest payments and other current expenditures,
will more than offset the expected increase (18%) in current revenues.
According to established policy, wages of public employees are adjusted every
two years, to compensate for increases in the cost of living since the
previous bi-annual adjustment.   No further such increase is expected until
FY82/83.   Public  savings,  therefore,  should recover somewhat in FY81/82,
provided that the international economic situation does not cause a larger-
than-expected decline in export growth.
22.       Fluctuations  in tourism  receipts  are  notoriously  difficult  to
predict; if in 1981 tourism does not decrease, manufactured export-s maintain
its rapid growth and sugar production increases as expected, the economy may
well maintain in 1981 a growth rate in the 3.5-4.0% range. These trends would
allow a modest recovery in public savings, but this would not be enough to
avoid some further increase in the current account deficit of the balance of
payments to near 10% of GDP.
23.       This situation requires careful monitoring of economic and balance
of  payments  developments,  particularly  in  view  of  the  uncertainties
prevailing in the international economy.   The authorities are aware that
economic and financial conditions in 1981 are likely to be difficialt and are
actively considering the measures that may be required to keep the current
account deficit of the balance of payments at reasonable levels. Given the
good economic management that has characterized Barbados' perforvmance over
the last decade, it should be expected that the Government will act , as and
when needed, to avoid a sharp deterioration of the country's external
position.
Medium-Term
24.       Despite the short-term difficulties facing the economy, Barbados'
medium-term prospects are favorable.   Ongoing and anticipated hotel con-
struction should permit a steady increase in tourist arrivals after economic



-6-
growth resumes in the OECD countries. Given the favorable investment climate,
and the industrial incentives being provided by the Government, the prospects
for  the  continued  growth  of  export manufacturing  are  also  good.    The
Government's development strategy and its increasing emphasis on agriculture
and energy conservation should also contribute to favorable growth.  If the
execution of this development strategy continues to be accompanied by
adequate monetary and fiscal policies, it should lead to a reduction in the
current account deficit of the balance of payments and to a strengthening of
public finances and net international reserves after 1981.
25.       With a public external debt service ratio of only 2.6% in 1979, and
debt outstanding and disbursed amounting to US$65.9 million or 10.3% of GDP at
the end of 1979, Barbados has relatively modest external indebtedness. In the
light of its economic performance in recent years, its favorable medium-term
prospects, and the quality of its economic management, Barbados should be
expected to remain creditworthy for loans on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
26.       Barbados became a Bank member in 1974.  The proposed project would
be the Bank's fourth lending operation.  Bank loans to Barbados total $27.0
million and are  for education,  tourism,  and industrial development.   In
addition, Barbados has benefited from the Bank's lending to the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB). So far, a loan of $2.6 million from IBRD resources
was made by the CDB to Barbados in September 1978 for an industrial develop-
ment project.
27.       The Bank has maintained a continuing dialogue with the Government
on its economic policies and development priorities.   The Bank organized
a subgroup under the auspices of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
Economic Development to coordinate financial and technical aid to Barbados.
At the meetings of the subgroup, multilateral and bilateral donors expressed
substantial interest in financing specific priority projects and in providing
technical assistance to Barbados. In addition, in light of Barbados' balance
of payments difficulties, the country recf,Dved special assistance through
the Caribbean Development  Facility  (CDF)-  from the US,  the UK,  Canada
and the OPEC Development Fund for $7.0 million, $1.65 million, $1.5 million
and $1.5 million respectively.
28.       In the  future,  Bank's  lending  to Barbados,  either directly or
through the CDB will be mainly in the agriculture and energy sectors. This is
in line with the Government's strategy to sustain adequate rates of economic
growth and to reduce the mounting bill of import food and energy while
satisfying the needs of the local population, tourism and industry sectors.
1/ The CDF was established during the First Meeting of the Caribbean Group
for Cooperation in Economic Development, held at Bank headquarters, in
June 19-24, 1978.  It is a transitional emergency financing facility to
cover local costs and cost overruns of development projects in Caribbean
countries, including Barbados.   It is planned to be phased out over a
period of about five years.   As a result of the first meeting of the
Caribbean Group, $205.0 million of CDF-type assistance was pledged by
donors.  Commitments in the second meeting reached $328.0 million.  The
major contributors are the US, UK, Canada, the OPEC Special Fund, and the
European Economic Community (EEC).



- 7 -
The Government has also requested that the Bank consider providing a
Structural Adjustment Loan to Barbados.   This request  is presently under
study.
29.        It is estimated that by 1983 the Bank's share in Barbados' public
external debt outstanding and disbursed will be about 13%.  - e Bank's share
in the external public debt service will be about 8%.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources and Use
30.       Petroleum provided 91% of primary energy in 1977, with natural gas,
liquified petroleum gas (LPG) and bagasse making up the balance. About 14% of
the total energy supply was provided by domestic crude oil, natural gas and
bagasse.   The major consumer of primary energy was the Barbados Light and
Power Company (BLPC), which used 44% of the total. Transport used a further
23%, and industry 19%, while residential use and losses accounted for 14%.
31.        Imports of fuel and lubricants in 1978 amounted to about US$36.4
million, accounting for 11.5% of the value of total merchandise imports.
About US$20.4 million of this amount was for domestic use and UJS$16.0 million
was for re-export.  Barbados has minor production of crude oil and natural
gas.   After  intense exploration during the 1960s and the early 1970s,  a
private oil company began commercial-scale production of crude oil in 1973 and
output increased from 59,000 barrels in 1974 to 283,000 barreLs in 1979.  At
the same time, gross output of natural gas, largely associated with oil
production, rose from 68 million cubic feet (mcf) in 1974 to 547 mcf in 1979.
Refining is done by a 3,300 barrel per day refinery owned and operated by
Mobil  Oil  Corporation.    Marketing  companies  operating  in  Barbados  are
obligated to take products from it, except for aviation and marine fuels. The
retail prices of oil fuels are based on posted prices, the Caribbean market
and local refining costs. Road taxes and duty of about 50% of these costs are
levied on gasoline.
32.       All crude oil and associated natural gas produced in Barbados is
extracted from 11 wells by General Crude Oil Company, a US Ccmpany which is
owned by Mobil.   The Government is in the process of forming the National
Petroleum Corporation to undertake exploration and production in the northern
two-thirds of the island, which is not covered by General Crude's concession.
The state-owned Natural Gas Corporation (NGC) distributes gas, 188 mcf in
1977, and owns two gas wells, but it purchases the bulk of its requirements
from the General Crude Oil Company, having exclusive rights to all the gas the
company produces. At present, General Crude Oil Company is venting about 1.0
mcf per day of associated natural gas, while NGC's average daily sales are
only about 0.52 mcf per day.   Recently, however, NGC has entered into an
agreement with BLPC to supply some 1.0 mcf per day of gas, about 9% of BLPC's
fuel requirements, to the Spring Garden steam plant, whose two steam boilers
have been fitted with gas burners.
33.       Proven reserves of hydrocarbons are relatively small.   Those of
crude oil are estimated at 3.5 million barrels, of which about 30% to 35% may
be recoverable, and those of natural gas at about 10,000 mcf. General Crude
has intensified drilling in the Woodbourne area and in 1978 made a heavy oil
discovery about 3 km south of the Woodbourne field near Charnocks in southern
Barbados. The Government, with assistance from UNDP, is now formulating a



- 8 -
strategy to improve hydrocarbon resource development, including intensified
seismic work and drilling of deeper wells and is seeking external financing
for this purpose. It is estimated that in the 1974 to 1981 period, about one
million barrels of crude oil and 1,000 mcf of natural gas will be produced.
At current consumption rates, this amounts to 10% and 12%, respectively, of
commercial domestic demand.
34.       Barbados  has  no  hydroelectric  potential,  and  no  geothermal
exploration has been conducted or is planned. Some locally produced charcoal
is used for cooking, and bagasse is used by the sugar industry, which is
energy self-sufficient and, in addition, produces more bagasse than it needs.
This excess is now either stockpiled or burned.  The Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) and the Commonwealth Science Council are funding a
study, to be completed by the end of 1980, to measure the quantities and
qualities of surplus bagasse available and sugar factory boiler efficiencies.
Sugar Factories Ltd. have agreed to supply power to BLPC from the Foursquare
Factory, which has a 30% bagasse surplus,  for the public network.   The
possibility of increasing the utilization of bagasse for electricity
generation will be monitored during project implementation.
35.       In the field of solar energy, Barbados has significant potential.
An estimated 100 solar water heaters are already installed, mainly in private
residences in various parts of the island, providing about 2,000 barrels
of oil  equivalent energy per year.   The ongoing Bank-financed Heywoods
Village Tourism Project includes a solar water heating system that will
supply about 75% of the hot water needs of a 308-room hotel village.
Power Sector Organization and Access to Service
36.       The power sector is, for the most part, well organized.  Barbados is
served by a single electric utility, BLPC, which generates, distributes, and
sells electric energy throughout Barbados. BLPC has an installed generating
capacity of 96 MW and transmission and distribution facilities which
presently serve about 67,000 customers, providing service to roughly 90% of
the total population of the island.
37.       BLPC started a rural electrification program in 1964 and during the
1964 to 1976 period extended its service to about 7,000 rural families.  In
addition, about 4,700 families received interest-free loans for initial home
wiring. BLPC estimates that approximately BD$100,000 per year will be needed
in the future for rural electrification.   Service is now provided to about
80% of rural households in Barbados.
Power Sector Regulation
38.       The  Public  Utilities  Board  (PUB),  established  by  the  Public
Utilities Act of 1955, has jurisdiction over rate making, adequacy of service,
the issuances of securities and long-term borrowing for the telephone and
power utilities in the country.   All decisions of the PUB are subject to
review, on appeal on points of law by a judge of the High Court of Barbados.
The PUB consists of five citizens appointed by the Minister of Agriculture,
Food and Consumer Affairs to serve three-year terms.  In addition, during a
particular rate hearing, the Minister may appoint two assessors to the Board,
one selected in consultation with the utility and one to represent the users
of the utility concerned.   These two assessors have all the powers and
functions of a member of the Board except that of voting in decisions taken by



- 9 -
the Board.  The Board may engage technical experts to advise it; all Board
expenses, including the salaries of its members, are paid by the regulated
utilities.
39.       Electricity rates are proposed by BLPC and approved or modified by
the PUB through a process of public hearings modeled on US rate-making proce-
dures.   The utility must give the PUB 60 days' notice before putting a new
rate into effect. During this period, the PUB has the option of suspending
operation of the proposed rate for a maximum of six months beyond the proposed
effective date, during which time public hearings must be held. The PUB may
authorize temporary rates during suspension, but the utility is entitled to
recover any shortfall that occurs during the period if PUB's final decision
authorizes higher rates.
40.       The last rate case began in April 1979 when BLPC filed an appli-
cation that would have increased its average tariff in July 1979 by 3.2 BD¢
per kWh. The elapsed time from the filing of the rates until the final PUB
decision was slightly over one year.  During this time public hearings were
held. A PUB decision granting BLPC only 1.1 BDe¢ per kWh increase in rates was
handed down but was subsequently revised as a result of an appeal by BLPC.
The final May 1980 decision gave BLPC a 3.0 BD¢ per kWh increaLse as of July
1979.    With  the  purpose  of  streamlining  subsequent  rate  reviews,  the
Government has hired consultants to undertake a study of PUB's operating
procedures.  In addition, a study will be made of criteria for determining
power rates  in Barbados.   The reports would be prepared under  terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank and their conclusions and recommendations
would be reviewed by the Bank (Section 3.02, Guarantee Agreement).
Tariff Structure
41.       The May 1980 rate decision involved a change from the declining block
tariff structure employed in the past to one in which commercial and
industrial customers pay a flat rate per kWh consumed and a charge related to
kWh demand or installed transformer capacity. Domestic customers now pay more
per kWh the higher their consumption.   A thorough study of the costs of
producing and distributing electricity is required to provide a sound basis
for the tariff structure.   The proposed loan will finance a marginal cost
tariff study that will assess the adequacy of the current structure and
provide a basis for further changes in it, taking into account BLPC's
financial requirements and issues relating to subsidies that may be socially
desirable (Schedule 2, Loan Agreement).
The Role of the Sector in the Economy
42.       The provision  of an adequate  and reliable  electric  service  is
essential to the development of the country's tourism and industrial sectors
which together provide employment for about 40% of the labor force, account
for 24% of GDP, and contribute about 80% of foreign exchange earnings.
Since independence in 1966 until 1979, a period in which Barbados experienced
an average real GDP growth rate of about 5% p.a. electricity consumption grew



- 10 -
at an average rate of 11.4% p.a.  A factor behind the relatively high elec-
tricity consumption growth rate has been the strong performance of the manu-
facturing and tourism sectors.
Capacity and Demand Balance
43.        Peak demand for electricity is estimated to exceed firm capacity in
1980 and 1981. In accordance with the expansion program the commissioning of
a first 14 MW low speed diesel unit by the fall of 1982 and a second unit in
early 1983, will bring firm capacity back above peak demand. Late 1982 is the
earliest date at which the new plant can be installed. In the interim, extra
reliability would be provided by a second turbine for a gas turbine generator
thus reducing the forced outage time for that unit, and by advising customers
that need increased reliability to install standby equipment.
44.        The ratio between installed capacity and peak demand is projected
to fall from 1.69 in 1980 to 1.62 in 1984, at which time installation of
another unit will be required to bring firm capacity above peak demand. The
precise nature and timing of this unit is to be determined by a generation
expansion study (para. 48).
Sector Investment Program
45.        The sector investment program was prepared in 1978 by BLPC with
assistance of consultants.   Bank staff reviewed the program and recommended
consideration of medium-speed diesel generators which have been proven to be
economic in several power systems of similar size in Central America and the
Caribbean.   The revised expansion program is considered acceptable to the
Bank. It is expected to be carried out between 1980 and 1985 and focuses on
the following:
(a) expansion of the existing generation, transmission and distribution
system to meet projected electricity demands;
(b) reduction in fuel consumption per kWh generated;
(c) improvement of the transmission and distribution systems by
utilization of economic design to keep energy losses at a minimum;
(d) developing the institutional capability of BLPC for long-term
planning for generation and plant; and
(e) maximizing the use of indigenous energy resources such as gas
and bagasse and developing an energy conservation program.
46.        To achieve these objectives BLPC will undertake a series of invest-
ments including:
(a) the installation of two low-speed diesel generating units of 14MW
each in 1982 and 1983 and, subject to confirmation by further
studies, a third 14 MW unit in 1985 and commencement of work on a
fourth 14 MW unit to be completed in 1987;
(b) the construction of 10 km of 69 kilovolt (kV) transmission lines,
the construction of two 69/24 kV substations, the acquisition of
one mobile substation, and modifications to existing 24 kV
substations;



- 11 -
(c) the conversion of about 402 km of 11 kV primary feeders to 24 kV;
(d) expansion of the distribution network; and
(e) studies for generation expansion, tariff structure, and energy con-
servation.
47.       The total cost of this investment program in the 1980-35 period is
estimated at US$121.7 million in current prices, of which about US$68.0
million equivalent is estimated to be in foreign exchange. The financing plan
for the 1980-85 program is described in para. 58.
Sector Development
48.       Although the Government is encouraging continued development and
utilization of domestic crude oil and 'natural gas, as well as use of renewable
energy resources, the country is likely to continue to depend on imports for
about 80% of its energy supply in the foreseeable future.   Consequently,
serious economic problems could arise in the future if world-wide oil prices
continue to increase. the proposed project includes financing for studies to
investigate long-range power generation and fuel options, and electricity
conservation methods (Schedule 2, Loan Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
The Borrower
49.       The Borrower would be the Barbados Light and Power Company Limited
(BLPC), which supplies electricity throughout Barbados.
50.       Prior to June 1977, 66.7% of BLPC's ordinary shares were held by
Canadian International Power Company (C.I. Power), which, in turn, was 50%
owned by the Baldwin-United Corporation, a US corporation. In June 1977, C.I.
Power was liquidated and its assets distributed to the shareholders, with the
BLPC shares being transferred to a liquidating trust administered by Power
Consultants International, a wholly owned subsidiary of Ba]Ldwin-United.
BLPC's ordinary shares are presently held 67% by C.I. Power Liquidating Trust,
24% by local non-government investors, 7% by Government and 2% by other
overseas investors. A sale by C.I. Power in December 1980 of 500,000 of its
shares to local investors together with an issue by BLPC of one million new
shares in Barbados would increase local ownership of BLPC to 53% (para. 59).
Organization and Management
51.       BLPC is an efficient and well organized company with competent
management and technical personnel.  It is governed by a Board of Directors
composed of 12 members, one of whom is the Managing Director. The Government,
the private sector and the principal shareholder are represented on the board.
The managing director has four officers who report directly to him and are
responsible for the principal activities of the company's operations. BLPC's
total staff numbers 428 and it has been able to maintain motivated and
competent personnel at all levels. The customers per employee ratio of 154 in
1979 is second only to Colombia's 160(sector average) for seventeen countries
in the Latin American and Caribbean region for which data is available. The



- 12 -
high customer to employee ratio is due, in part, to the fact that BLPC's
procurement and system planning services are provided by C.I. Power Services
Ltd. In addition, BLPC receives management services from Power Consultants
International (PCI) a subsidiary of Baldwin United Corporation. Construction
and erection of facilities is normally carried out by BLPC staff, except for
major works such as new power plant or transmission lines, where local and
foreign contractors are employed.
Financial History and Present Position
52.       BLPC's recent financial history is characterized by a period of
heavy investment during 1973-76, when the 40 MW Spring Garden Steam plant was
installed, and a period of relatively light investment, mainly in distri-
bution works, during 1977-79.   Investment requirements during 1980-85 will
again increase because of the need for new plant. The financial health of the
company during the first half of the 1970s was good, with rates of return on
partially revalued assets of between 7% and 8%.   The existence of a fuel
clause in the tariff schedule helped insulate the company against the effects
of the 1973-74 increase in oil prices. A rate increase approved by the PUB in
March 1974 contributed 26 percentage points of the 85% increase in revenue
during 1973-74 and permitted increased self-financing of the steam plant.
During 1973-76 BLPC's net internal cash generation averaged 39% of invest-
ment. By 1976 the rate of return had declined to 5.6% on partially revalued
assets and earnings per share were beginning to fall.
53.       The company's financial position deteriorated gradually during the
1977-79 period while the net internal contribution to investment was
negative. From 1974 to 1978, while the average cost of fuel increased by 10%
annually and domestic inflation over the period totaled 50%, average BLPC
revenue per kWh rose by only 12% as a result of a reduction in the basic tariff
in 1977. The growing scarcity of internal funds resulted in the postponing of
some investment in distribution. In February 1978, BD$5 million capital was
raised through the sale of 500,000 redeemable preference shares and 500,000
ordinary shares, of which the Government acquired 300,000 ordinary shares
through the National Insurance Board. In addition, BLPC's overdraft with the
Royal Bank of Canada rose steadily from BD$865,000 at the end of 1974 to
BD$17.3 million at the end of 1979. The overdraft has, thus, functioned as
long-term debt without an amortization schedule.   By 1979 the Company's
earnings and cash flow position had become critical.  During both 1978 and
1979 dividends were greater than net income at a time when the company was
facing the need to undertake the proposed investment program. As a result of
the May 1980 tariff increase, it is estimated that BLPC will earn a rate of
return on annually revalued net fixed assets of over 6.0% in 1980 and 1981.
Further rate increases will be required in 1982 and beyond if BLPC's financial
health is to continue to improve and to generate sufficient cash to finance a
significant portion of its investment program.   It has been estimated that
BLPC would be required to achieve a rate of return of at least 8% in 1982 and
thereafter (Para. 61).
The Project
54.       The Bank project would consist of those components of the distri-
bution works not readily identifiable as individual projects and for which
BLPC is unable to obtain alternate financing on reasonable terms.   These
components are, essentially, primary distribution feeders, distribution
transformers, capacitors and service connections.  It also includes the in-



- 13 -
stallation of such equipment, and the development of an energy conservation
program and a study for generation.  In addition the loan would finance the
cost of experts who would undertake to determine appropriate operating pro-
cedures for the PUB and establish criteria for setting power rates and tariff
structures in Barbados. The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange
component of the project and any local costs that may be required to undertake
the studies related to the PUB operating procedures and criteria for power
rates. Negotiations for the proposed loan took place in Washirngton, D.C., on
November 4-7, 1980. The BLPC's delegation was led by Mr. F. McConney, BLPC's
Managing Director.  The Government's delegation was led by Mr. C.  Skeete,
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance. A report entitled "'Staff Appraisal
Report - Barbados Power Project" (No. 3137b-BAR dated Novembetr 17, 1980) is
being distributed separately. Annex III contains a timetable of key events in
processing the project and a description of the special conditions of the
proposed loan.
The Bank's Involvement in the Project
55.       The Bank's involvement in the preparation of BLPC's investment pro-
gram and its participation with a small loan in its financing enabled BLPC to
attract a substantial portion of the required financing for the program at
better terms than if the Bank was not involved in the project.  In addition,
it would improve the regulatory mechanism for utility rates in Barbados by
undertaking to finance studies and services of experts to set up appropriate
operating procedures for the PUB and criteria for setting electricity rates
and tariff structure in Barbados (para. 40). It will assist in improving the
financial health of the sector by requiring that a reasonable rate of return
on revalued net fixed assets is generated by BLPC.  A study of generation
expansion would support the exploration of methods to maximize the utiliza-
tion of indigenous sources of energy such as vented gas and bagasse (paras. 32
and 34).
Project Implementation
56.       BLPC's staff with assistance from its consultants will supervise
engineering designs and specifications for equipment and works. In addition,
they would prepare bidding documents, evaluate bids and award contracts for
procurement of project items. Equipment installation would be performed by
BLPC's own staff, who have extensive experience in 24 kV wood pole line
construction and the installation of distribution transformers, capacitors
and customer service connections. The studies will be prepared by consultants
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The project is scheduled to
start in January 1981 and to be completed by December 31, 1984.
Project Cost and Financing
57.       The total cost of the project has been estimated at US$8.0 million
in current prices, of which US$6.0 million, or 75%, is expected to be in
foreign exchange.  The base costs were estimated by BLPC and its consultants
on the basis of prices prevailing in 1979 and found to be reasonable by the
Bank. Engineering and administration costs for the project are included in
the base estimates. An 8% physical contingency has been added to both foreign
and local base costs.   The studies to be performed as part of the project
would require about 75 staff-months of consultant services and have an
estimated  total cost of US$0.9 million.   The average consultant cost per
month, including fees, international travel and subsistence, is US$11,500.



- 14 -
Allowance for price increases have been incorporated in the cost estimate
using the following annual percentages: foreign costs - 10.5% for 1980, 9.5%
for 1981, 8% for 1982 andt/% thereafter; local costs - 15% for 1980, 14% for
1981 and 13% thereafter. -   The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange
costs of the project and any local costs thay may be required in connection to
the PUB operating procedures and criteria for power rates studies.
Financing Plan for the Investment Program
58.       The financing plan of the proposed program is summarized below:
Financing  (1980-85 Investment Program)          US$ million    _
Proposed IBRD Loan                                     6.0         5
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)                       6.0          5
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)            11.7        10
European Investment Bank (EIB)                         7.1         6
Suppliers' Credits                                    33.3        27
Royal Bank of Canada (RBC)                             5.9         5
Sales of Shares                                        5.0         4
Internal Cash Generation                              46.7        38
Total Financing                121.7       100
The terms of financing are as follows:  IBRD loan, 15 years including 3 years
grace at 9.25% interest per annum; CDB loan, 15 years including 3 years grace
at 10.5% interest per annum; EIB loan, 15 years including 3 years grace at
7.25% interest per annum; CDC loan, 15 years, including 3 years grace at 9.5%
interest per annum; Suppliers Credit, 12.5 years including 2.5 years grace at
10.5% interest per annum; and Royal Bank of Canada, 10 years, no grace period
at 11% interest per annum. In addition, the Government would charge BLPC a
guarantee fee on the IBRD, CDB and EIB loans for which it will provide its
guarantee. The guarantee fee would be equivalent to 0.75% interest per annum
charged on the outstanding amount of these loans.   It has been agreed that
payment of the guarantee fee will be in the form of a share issue equivalent
to the present value of the guarantee fee.
59.       The  BLPC has  agreed  with Gotaverken  Company  of  Sweden  on  the
purchase of two 14.0 MW low speed generators to be commissioned by the fall of
1982. Regarding the sale of shares, and with the purpose of increasing local
ownership in BLPC, the borrower agreed to sell BD$10.0 million worth of
shares--2 million shares in two issues of one million each--in the Barbados
market (para. 50). The first issue will be offered in December 1980 and the
second  would  be  required  by  1983  (Section  5.09,  Loan Agreement).    The
Government agreed to acquire any shares of these two issues that may not be
purchased by local investors (Section 4.06, Guarantee Agreement).  The com-
pletion of the sale of shares of BD$5.0 million, the approval of the loans by
CDB, EIB, CDC, and RBC, the signing of a contract acceptable to the Bank with
the suppliers of the two low speed generators, and the submission of the
company's financing plan for 1981 acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition
of loan effectiveness  (Section. 8.01, Loan Agreement).   BLPC agreed, upon
request by the Bank, to issue as security for the Bank loan, additional
1/   Local cost index based on BLPC's estimate of local construction and
labor cost price trends.



- 15 -
debentures under an existing Debenture Trust Deed ranking pari-passu with
other lenders covered by the Debenture Trust Deed.   BLPC would bear the
foreign exchange risk on all loans.
60.       The financial forecast indicates that:   (i) BLPC would earn more
than the minimum 6% rate of return in 1981, and 8% in 1982 and in subsequent
years (Para 53); (ii) BLPC's overdraft would be reduced from BI)$17.2 million
at the end of 1979 to BD$2.7 million by 1982; and (iii) BLPC maintains its
consistent record of dividend payment and is able to raise US$5.0 million
through the sale of shares in 1980 and 1983. Under these conditions, the debt
service coverage ratio would rise from a low of 1.3 in 1978 and 1979 to an
average of 2.0 in 1980-85, while the current ratio would rise from 0.7 in 1979
to 2.1 in 1983 when the overdraft is eliminated. BLPC agreed to pay dividends
out of retained earnings and that the payment of such dividends would not
affect the execution of the proposed investment program. In this connection,
it will submit to the Bank for its review no later than two months before the
end of each fiscal year, its investment program and proposed financing plan
for the following fiscal year (Section 5.07, Loan Agreement).   In addition,
BLPC agreed to obtain Bank approval before incurring further debt if its
projected debt service coverage ratio, excluding the overdraft facility,
falls below 1.5. The Bank's approval would also be required prior to raising
its overdraft limit above BD$10.0 million (Section 5.07, Loan Agreement).
With the purpose of increasing its liquidity, BLPC agreed to maintain cash
reserves less its overdraft at the end of 1981, 1982 and thereafter equivalent
to 5% and 9% respectively of annual fuel and cash operating expenses of the
previous 12 months (Section 5.05, Loan Agreement).
61.       The May 1980 tariff increase, including the surcharge of 1.88 BD¢
per kWh to be applied until May 31, 1981 (Para 40), resulted in an average
basic tariff in 1980 of 14.1 BD. per kWh. In addition, a fuel charge is added
to the basic tariff to compensate BLPC for increase in fuel costs.   During
1981 the Government would undertake to improve PUB's operating procedures, to
establish criteria for determining power rates in Barbados and to streamline
the process of evaluating applications for tariff increases.   In 1982, and
thereafter, BLPC would need to achieve an 8% rate of return (Para. 53), if it
is to be able to generate sufficient internal resources to make an acceptable
contribution to investment (Section 5.04, Loan Agreement). For this purpose
a 19% tariff increase would be required in 1982 and a 11% in 1983.   The
Government agreed not to take any action which would interfere with BLPC in
meeting its obligation in connection with this covenant and olther covenants
contained in the Loan Agreement (Section 4.02, Guarantee Agreement). The net
effect of the tariff increases discussed here would be to increase the average
total tariff from 23 BD¢ per kWh in 1980 to 27BD¢ in 1985 in constant 1979
prices.   This would assume that the fuel clause component in the-tariff to
compensate for variation in fuel costs will be maintained (Section 5.06, Loan
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       Procurement  of  goods  and  services,  other  than  consultants'
services, to be financed by the Bank would be through international compe-
titive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's guidelines except for
equipment which cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$50,000 equiva-
lent which would be on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures that
are acceptable to the Bank. A maximum of US$250,000 in the aggregate would be



- 16 -
procured in this manner. In the case of ICB, domestic manufacturers tendering
under international procedures would receive a margin of preference of 15% of
cost or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower, and regional pre-
ferences for other members of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) would be
limited to 15% of c.i.f. price of non-regional goods or the difference in the
amount of tariffs payable by CARICOM and non-CARICOM suppliers, whichever is
lower. Disbursements from the loan account would be made for 100% of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment, materials and consultant's services for
the generation planning, energy conservation and marginal cost tariff
studies.   The entire cost of consultants for the studies of criteria for
setting power rates and the operating procedures of the PUB, estimated at
US$150,000, would be covered by the Bank loan.
Investment Program Rate of Return
63.       As the project consists of a certain portion of the 1980-85 invest-
ment program and its effects cannot be isolated from those of the other
components of the program, an incremental rate of return was calculated for
the entire progr fT. In this respect benefits are taken as the growth in sales
during 1981-86 -  valued at the yearly average tariffs.  Since benefits so
measured record only payments, rather than willingness to pay, they may be
assumed to understate  the full economic returns of the investments.   The
benefits are compared with the cost of the investment for the period, shown in
Para. 46, except that the cost of the fourth low speed diesel unit to be
commissioned in 1987 was excluded since it will serve growth only in 1987 and
later.   Fuel cost attributable to the program is the growth in fuel cost
during the 1981-86 period. The incremental investment program rate of return
calculated on this basis is 13.5% and compares favorably with the estimated
opportunity coj> of capital in Barbados (10%). A sensitivity analysis shows
the following:-
Rate of Return
Base case                                   13.5%
Benefits up by 10%                          16.3%
Benefits down by 10%                        10.4%
Investment costs up by 10%                  12.2%
The rate of return is very sensitive  to small variations  in benefits as
a result of the significance of annual fuel costs in relation to investment
costs.
Risks
64.       The  project  faces  the  risk  of possible hurricane damage since
Barbados is located in the Caribbean hurricane belt. To minimize this risk
the transmission system will be designed to withstand 120 mile per hour winds.
1/  It is expected the increase in capacity to the system provided by the
1980-85 program would be put to full use during the 1981-86 period.
2/ Sensitivity analysis of variations in fuel cost was not carried out
since these variations would, in fact, be compensated by variations
in the average  tariff.   However,  such variations  could affect  sales
growth.



- 17
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between BLPC and the Bank,  the draft
Guarantee Agreement between Barbados and the Bank, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex III, Section III.
Conditions of loan effectiveness are the completion of a sale of BD$5.0
million worth of the company's shares, the approval of the loans from the
cofinancing institutions, the signing of a contract acceptable to the Bank for
the purchase of the two low-speed 14 MW generators and the furnishing of the
company's 1981 financing plan satisfactory to the Bank.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend  that  the Executive Directors  approve  the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
Attachments
November 24, 1980



- 18 -
ANNEX I
BARBADOS - SOCIAL INDICATO   DATA SRET               Page  1  of  5
8U3ADQS                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGCTED AVERaGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM. )_                                                    -___ST AUI=NT ESTIMATE_
TOTAL              0.4
AGRICULTURAL       0.37                               MSDT RCDNT             MIDDLE INC(KE           MIDDLE INCOME
1960   b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMRICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 400.0       950.0    1960.0                  1384.1                   2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EUUIVALENT)     377.0      1100.0    1100.0                  1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPIULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     0.23        0.24      0.25
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 35.5        37.0      33.6                    63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      536.0       555.0    625.0                     28.1                     77.2
PER SQ. Ml. AGRICULTURAL LAND    624.0       646.0     675.0                    81.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         38.3        37.0     .31.2                    41.4                     30.6
15-64 YRS.                        55.3         54.7      59.2                    54.7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   6.4         8.3       9.6                     3.9                      8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              0.9/c       0.3/c     0.6Lc                   2.7                      1.6
URBAN                              1.2         1.0       i.3                     4.1                      3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     30.0        21.0      18.5                    34.8                     22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     10.0         9.0       7.7                     8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.3         1.4       1.1                     2.5                      1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INOEX OP FOPD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         103.0       107.0      75.0                   106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  108.0       120.0     129.0                   107.4                    125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          65.0        78.0      82.8                    65.6                     91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       48.0        48.0      55.0                    33.7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      4.0         4.0       3.0                     8.4                      4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.7        67.6      71.0                    63.1                     67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           60.0        46.3      28.0                    66.5                     55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        98.0     100.0                    65.9
URBAN                               ..        95.0     100.0                    80.4
RURAL                               ..       100.0     100.0                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..       100.0     100.0                    62.3
URBAN                               ..       100.0     100.0                    79.4
RURAL                               ..       100.0     100.0                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN          2800.0/d    1890.0    1459.0                  1849.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PFR NURSING PERSON      650.0       430.0     233.0                  1227.5                    929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            170.0        98.0     113.0                   480.3                    289.7
URBAN                               ..        70.0      81.0
RURAL                               ..       143.0/e   168.0/5e
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         9.0      11.0                      ..                      17.0
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.0         3.9
LRBAN                               ..          ..
RIRAI.                             ..           ..
AVERAGE NlUIBNR OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTA,.                             1.2         1.0
URBAN                              1.2         1.0
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF' DLEI,IN,CS)
TOTAI                               ..        69.0
SRRAN                               ..          ..
ER41A                               ..          ..        .                        ..



- 19 -                                  ANNEX I
---                                ~~~~~Page 2 of 5
BARBADOS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BARBADOS                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA5S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                108.0       103.0     112.0                    99.7                     105.9
MALE                116.0       104.0     111.0                   101.0                     109.3
FEMALE              102.0       101.0     114.0                    99.4                     101.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 39.0        68.0      83.0                    34.4                     64.0
MALE                 46.0        67.0      80.0                    33.5                      7i.1l
FEMALE               33.0        69.0      86.0                    34.7                     56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   5.0         7.0       7.0                    38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           40.0        33.0        ..                    30.5                     23.4
SECONDARY                         29.0        27.0      20.0                    14.5                     26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       94.0        99.0      99.0                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        35.0        82.0      97.3                    43.0                     84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       152.0       372.0    526.0                    245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..        67.0     194.0                    84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 85.0        90.0      98.0                    63.3                     53.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0         5.0       4.9                      ..                       5.7
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       90.8        89.8     109.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  41.8        40.0      41.0                    22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             26.0        17.0      10.0                    37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                27.0        28.0      25.0                    23.5                     29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               39.6        37.8      40.0                    31.5                      40.9
MALE                                51.3        48.3      50.3                    48.9                      S5.9
FEMALE                              30.2        28.4      30.6                     14.0                     >6.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.2       0.9                      1.4                      1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS     ..        19.8/4f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        44. 0...
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         6.8/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        18.6/f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    484.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    484.0                    190...
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    518.0                    474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    518.0                    332.5                    385.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      23.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      23.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Eatimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  Due to migration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1962;  /e Governnent
hospital establishments only; /f Income recipient.
April, 1980



- 20--                                         ANNFYXI
Page 3 of 5
Mau    Tb. adjust*d grou  avra.  fo            h ladleato t or.         ciet'eibe   geematOfc mama.  excluding tb. Ostorm   Cal.e. of the toletcteat     thNW              mat
popuatedcounry I  *ac   gru. Cora.    f re.etti.o augr  the  oiao.  dePcmda ca .otlability of date ead te nact. safom.  tee to lack Of data
grop aoae   o  Capital $Lurpiac Oil fape'tora sead iaicatoo. of ac.C.. to water and  .cretat  disposal, heed.0s. lacemi digtrtbqai.  mip.tp 
.A.pl. pep.latto-unight.d  eomitrIc wasa without thte*nliotf sellsc   values.
LANDII ARiA (t-eas  0q  NO)                                                                ropulatioc Po, hoeolte1 bed - total, arba.. sad rural - PpalatiamL (ltotl,
o.l-Total sulfate area CePInpiaa  land area  ead isIad  "atoer.                         urbn., .nt  .ruol  dlo1d.d by th.1iresnpctivoe  -tb.r of hospital bade
61LILouitarcl - HOne Vaant..*ti-.n  of  6,cg,oot ..tIclmaa  wood toworrtily                  ...fildsbl  Ln public cod pto.ste g.aerl sad sp-tialigad hospital cat go-
or p.raenatiy for t,ope. peatt.0, mrkst act kitchen garde"a of to                          htbilittatoc..    te...L.-   k-pit.le  -t  aet.blishekt. peoneaotiy atajffd by
~I. Ialw                                                                                   at lease a.. phy.tuct..   Lt.cbliehaa.t. providiag polacipsily  e.stedial
tata e:1ta not 1-Incudd. Aotal heopical.. howavet. Iaclude health ct amtd-
cm  PR CAITA  iSt) - C,1 P., reFit. etct.at Cennaat oarat prIC".,                       teC  at.,at p--.0etl  Ct.fl.d by . phy.11Ia, (but by e Medical a.-
cetitd by cass tCoantalon .thot cc W'o1ld benk At1ca (1975-77 basis);                  ltet   nu .3.1mtsfe.  sit.) whIeh offer le-patlaut accacaedgtioa OI
iVho,  1975,. ast 1977 dat..                                                               Pro-Ids a limIttd lease of medIcal f.C1liti...
Adm.aIs.ns pst h.apital had - Total --bara of odei.a$oe  to et distea'gaa
flItoGyCOIISWTIOW  PUCAPIT A-1Aes   taoaaptlon  of coscasrtial eamry                 from  htopicci. divided by the. RObcr of bea4.
Cealnod ItCla    Petoaa   natua  Saat               laste-        I.lc  a,t gin-n
Avarca. alo. of houeeheld (per.ooe per bueol)-total, rba._ cad rural -
LG_FLAS 1O0 AME  VITAL STA.TISTICS                                                            A hotechold cono.t.t of a  roup of  odivitu-la vIto sarae living qIarter,
localpopuation  aidocat  millocal- AlIofj J51  1; if act avallable.               and th.eir  n*iL. m-.l..  A boarder or lodgr cay a, way not be Inclued  toi
to  otyaroolatc  1960, 1970, end 1977 dana,                                        the howoehold for statistical p-rpoac.  Stati.tloel dellnitloas of beamo-
Vrhat f,Puletlon (prtc-t of tot.1) - Latlo  of arb.  to toaLO  poywia-                       heldnay
clot; different dcfioltloem  of arha.  r..a.  may affect  seprability                   Avorano ocb!t of ,er-oc P., room  - total.  rtb.. acd cuorl - Avstao VA&-
ofdtc.  bmgtetio  of perAo   pratoo  In all, urban, e-d tr..  occupied toev.tioaa
.P.oI.tio  doeiy                                                                              ulllnte. tac:patlni 1       Duei ra. *.tledf Cos-prvaacct  Merutal"ca
Potej    - Hid-year ppellatio   par equals bilamatar (100 hMetals.)                   ... cCapie   part..t
ot tota1 -rea                                                                           Actee..  to electrtcity jp.-rCo   of twolIloA.) - t.t.l. urban. oand rural -
Perq. ha. entltu1ture icod    Campatet *0 ebevo for egritulturc1 land                      Cono-tlonal dwellng. with elcotrlcity in livring qaotsr  asc parcemeaego
oniy.                                                                                     of tetal, urbao. saed  ard ... oollinga respactivaly.
Poouilaloo ag trutuo  pecet  - Childos   (0-IA  yearsl. workiag-age
(1-F.  :ect), and retired (65 year. aCt 00Cr) a.  p-rootago.ato aid-                 IDSICAT!O.
Y-c  Population'                                                                       Adlu-tod eo-oll.owt rctioa
roueinouoth cct* (P-ool-  oa.ed urban - C-mpoad annual                             Primary achcol - total. end foele - Total sad fwent. enrllment of al case
atoth rate, ef total aTurhbo cI-erpopuIlteone for 1950-60.                                at the Primary laero  as petc.t.ctag         of reapactively primary *chol-og.
I96-70, sacd 1970-75.                                                                     populaclon.; Cormaly Includes chlldroe  &ged 6-il years but adjusted for
Criod. hirth rcto lpar thu.saad) - Annual live births per choiscaad of                      4iffereot iaogth. of prleary ad ... it.; fer coustri., with ualioctc.l ada-
aid-yer p pulatios;too-year arith-atic  ":A&*ragoodiag  .I.1960, ca.Ctio .,.rallnent, ca.yb ec`  100 percent aC-. eome Pupils ar. hal  of,a
197  cod fI 10-yVacr aVer .ageodles 1a 1975 f rorme  recant    elmao                      aboe the offcial  Icoo  ago.
Crude death r.ct  (v., thoucand) - A-1aa  death: perithooaTs  of alt-                     Secondary school - totsl. sad female - Compucad a. above; secondary attica-
.a.t  Ppopaltico.; tao-year .rlthaetiC.. avera e,nodle USo 19W0 cnd 1970                  tloo raquirco at I...t tour year. of approved primay la.tructins; pea-
a f.)(10_year cred.g .ndi.$ 1. 1975 for wa.t r*c.ot ccciaant.                           old.. gea...l.  yocaoiol.  or1 teeChet tralaog.  etnotruoi.a  fer pupJJ.
-PoaroccAutiOO  r.t. - Avorago tru.haof daughter:. a             ,.Ilil beent            ueully of 12 to 17 year.ofag;cotLa P0mdaoco ce.Too*  ace g.carally
ir h.r aormal reproductIve perioed if abeonpti.cc C p,oace  gs-                           encisde.
occfc fottlity Lato.; ucually five-year av-ragS.  ending Ja 1960,                   rotaItial-  cOolmnt tOoroect of atonteryi - Vocati.ool Itatltetloact ix-
I 1)70    d 195.clI   taholcel   toid-trL1.1  or othor Program. which operate lndapemdeotly
Pee,  panic   - acceptorsa.--Ioce  (thou-ends) - Aceul -umber of                            or an departmeots of ..c-ndary insttatltona.
r.Pt.r. of birth-cootrol devicas uodor &.Spices of national fcaily                  Pupll-toachac ratiao-  rleary. co  oand *: a.Iry - Teotl  ttadanto carolled ia
raoOtnc program.                                                   pr~~~~~~~~~:inry and eacendary levaic dIiro   by eambors of teachers 10 the Carrl-
Leally Paci .. in    users (perc.nI aI nttled ev.        - Percentag   faodo   oaa
atio -wco  of child-heaing  age (15-_  pyears)  tho ae birth-costrol              Adult,literary rat. (p.rC..t) - Literate adults labia to toad "Ad writ.) as
oincto all mariod   ~.eo1 i an  age . grSoup.                                         a percotag. of ctota  adult population cagd 55 years sat "oar.
FOOD MID NU1TRITIONCS9fI
'-do  of food p,od ot'vo per -apita  (1970nl005 - led" au.ber of pet                     Panaecaor tate  (oar thu...And populatio) - P.....go oar.- teaptic meter c"te
capt           P,ue  prduoto   f  l   od.o..ti.                                         ctigie  than eight p.roe ..; a.eludes  s.IbeawcA . hoarca, atd military
ccc   aoyof oalorie  bprceot of. aul   .ante  - caatcd frca                   nahIIoL.e
nogeqiaet of oat food .uppli.. available 1n toancry per capita                Radio reocive1r. (oct thousaad savuletion) - All tye, of localvor. for radio
pot dcy.  Avail:lal   oupla rIpI..        doaal  production, Isaprta lae                bredcaetn to goarnl public Per thou.."d of pop.lation; .Codd.. ealcacam
oonl.  n   heogen la  c.to .  N4.t uplie oot.lud. anfeal fc.d. oca-.1aolers in contrlco sact 10 year.  h-t rasi.tr-tIan of radio aot. was is
quoic ion ucd 10nfootP rtoeaa... a'nt loea 1  diettibutlIon.   a-                     affect; date for recent yea. may cot be coaprabahi   Jclo   "oet coeocrice
ocir-non. woro ceacicet4 by FAO hnco'd on ph1yatolo.gical naea   for not-               ahtlish.d liccamleg.
eel aCtiity cod haalch co..olellriag aovironeeotsj tamporotare. body                   TV r.c-i-r. lPet tho.....d oolto            -T'v r-oelvor  far broedac.t to goainrS
cightc.agnocoditbtoo   of Population. andl allawing 10 Per-                              phicpe  th,u,n  popul.tioo; ...ludea u,clloeced TV rac:ivara to came-
coot  .olec   cloaaodi l                                                                  ttia an  1  year  whe.                    Piitatnto  TV aca  in t  affact.
F.t napic. acoly of pratcl ri.          ttdy    Protein . coLent of per                  Nawe,aoet circulation 10cc thou.ad  -oualo      Io,   h                 rage tirc.la-
cPit ratorcP,ly of fod  otda.   lt Iepyof fodi   eid   cctioc of 'diygnrlitaoc wppr,   eie   eapriodical pobll-
uteco    Oequraaooe forall cuctri   cetbliahdby U'DA proito for               ..ti.c devoted primarily to  accerding general naew.  It Is congld.rad to
a oliloc alownceof 60 grace of total preotai  per day cand 20 grams                  be  dail1y'  if it appar,0 at lea.t four timea a weeb.
_loantl aru  pulse procoit, of which I0Sgrae chot,ld be  noIal procoin.              Cicna annua  attendancets        cpt   o   er-lsa   ntenbte   ikc
Ihe t eccad. cry lwe  that thoao of 75 grac  of total prot.ao and                      sold during tha year, intildtto  mdinesao  to drIve-scintomea and "ebile
13 fr "s  o   nI1 protein a. an  v-rgo far the uatid  pr.opeca  by                        unIts.
'oA cc the Tird Worid Food Survey.
in 01cprcl   uoy  rmaia  an..e   paaoapply of food                             0Q1OEIfTT
Arie   fo   Tim   t   ue   ogaaprdy                                              Total lahor fotto (tho.saod.) - ECo..omic.lly actieptoc                 nldn   ra
Iflild (aaI-k) cntalit  rate (perth .h..and) - Annual deaths per thoua-                      force, and u... ploy.d hut  -ooluing ho... wioc. ccudonts. etc.  Dofini-
sod in  S.e group 1-A y-ar, cc ohIldr.. L. this ago group.                                tiorc ic  -ciOu ..    uC..trica are not tompar.blo.
Pomlo   orcay)- Pe-1l  lehor force ce percectago of torsi labor fort..
HEALTH                                                                                     giutr  (p rt o) - Labor' forco I. fnroing'....rctry, hunting sand fisblog
Lii  enr1ny et hirtch (pyc.. -2 AverageS  nuer of yeats of life                             a.,peceraf        cf local labor forces.
remanin   ar rh; usIefy fieyear average, ending to 1960. 1970.                       Laduet,y (porono-) - L.hor f....te in       1t cilg    ....tru.clton. saeafact.Iorlagnd
ate 1975                                                                                  alcr- ly   ace   nd ge ac Percet"g   of totalSber forces.
Inlnt  0 ialcytac  (ot thousand)    Aetnua  deaths of infaotc Under               Patcotioo rat. (percoor) - toal  maesn od.-Tt                              ale. and
one  oatof  sc  ot tountttilo  btht,                                            focal, labr forts a  pecrogoc  th.ir r.p.otloe poulaticag.
All-u  10 nafl etr (pretutp, tiortl - total, urbn..  cod rucsl -                             Th..o crc TLO.  adfostd p.r,cirp.tte- rate, reflectingeo-o
iluebc ciracy.  (Ita).urba. so  rurl) vit  rOaern-bl. acce.. to                  cIrrrr    f the Popollor. and legs tine tr-d.
roW      rspl    icitccecdeu               Ic ac    r atraet*d but                    [cococic d.p..d..cy r-1. - Satio of pop.l.tien ander IS and 65 oct ovocr to
--o-annt.d-dwater auCh aa chac roea Protectod bar h.lo,   cping.                           tho labor forc. to age grou.p of 15-bA  yeaa.s
.nued -Itar- ucll) .. p.1-coow. of their teapeotioc poIpo,laten. 
cs.r   trapublic  fountaic  r.adna    oae  notn  nro                        IlfCOE DISTRtgt(TIO
cha  233 ntet  Pr. aOA   my he conn i'deta,d .! being wIthin rca-                 P-r-otee. .( rV,1-t  loro-ai (both in Cash and hind) reivtod by richest
conabl  acne.  of r..ce oo. S  rural..a....    oanblacco.c would                      paro-t, richoot 20 porcent. poor..et 20 percent. and poorest 40 percent
,,ni, cat th, hcu-  it. or ...Or  of rho11  hcu.hld to oat bayo to                        of h .u.. h.ldm.
opod *diarootinaePar  or the dcy Ir fatching t1he family's
aece  toed..                                                                          POVERTY TARGET  9ODUPS
Occac  cc ocre cdiepoal lorcoctof roulatlc) -total. orbas. cd               ,tetnae     (cu.ooer    on.loilS$ v-t c.pital - urnec sac.. Sori-
cue! - c,nt of puple  itotal.  sra.and  -url) cartod by .oor-                           AhcuopoortlyIroelvl  Ic tt atItnon   iono  hele  which a nioioal
diecaaao   arcvteao  f toirenen ootpoplitoon    foret              Otrltio-11y ad.qaste diet plan O..nle  confoo   -euirecet. i   u
dipalcn   rud thnoanlrrdadcoa    it   Ot wIhou                                             aflrd.ble.
Ohu-an  nndtaateac-elrby wae-borne   pam                                 fotlnuce4 re    pi . -O    t  Income ie-1 (USS P., c-pit.) - urban .Od tuts) 
c   c-c   iP"c yr-ci. sod .llitIncll-ln.                                            c     -co  poery lncoCs  1-ra  I. that I ic.e lo-o1 I..  then one-third
-Pc pa.  tci cl -   tp)ein  ile   y  ubrO 'P"'iogPac caPita Por....ul Incose af the country.
i.) eaquslItIrd (to. a mdiascolcunraty levl                                       ,tmtdI'melvhlo  oot   otc   ne  (parootl- obar end t-tal
POp~ .,;   cPr  uc.gp*n - Pupula-i- 4lvitat by nambeof actec   of prpulatlo.                                                                h.bcn   rel   b  are eLba.   aheiut-s, `poor  or
cc nb  an  icnbe a.da..t.turcc.. po...tic.i1 t*e  And                         reaiep.,  whichev-t Is gceagacoc
frenoaloand tod     Data8 DIViIo
.caneac Aneyl I      nd Prjecin    lparttaca



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
0ARBADOS:  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENI DATA
AVERAGE
ANNUAL
Preliminary      GROWTH RATE           Actual          Preliminary
1975      1976      1977     1978          1979            1976-79         1971      1978         1979
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                       Constant 1976 US$ m,illion                                        As pe-rcentage of GDP
Cross donestic product                                          384.0    400,3    415.3    441.0            473.0               6.0         100,0    100.0          100.0
Gains from  terms of trade                                     45.2        -        1.2       1.0          -6.2                             0.3       0.2          -2.3
Gross domestic income                                         429.2    400.3    416.5    442.0            466.8               5.4         100,3    100.2           98.7
Imports (incloding NFS)                                         286.8    281.3    300.0    318.5            364.0               9.0           72.2      72.2         77.0
Exports (import capacity)                                       248.4    221.9    256.2    290.6            333.0              15.0          61.7      65.9          70.4
Consumption                                                     371.3    375.4    382.2    376.8            391.8               1.5          92.0      85.4          82.8
Investment                                                       96.3      84.3      78.1      93.1         106.0               8.3          18.8       21.1         22.4
Domestic savings                                                 57.9      24.9      34.3      65.2          75.0              45.0            8.2      14.8         15.9
National savings                                                 62.0      43.7      47.9      80.9          88.1              26.0          11.5      18.3          18.0
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                                          Current_8$  million                                            As percentage of total
Retainsed fports
Consumer goods                                                 80.3      91.0    1l2.1    114.0           140.0              15.5          41.5      40.4         37.8
Intermediate goods (ex.. f-els)                                43.3      51.9  5 1.5         71.4          95.7              21.0          25.0      23.3         25.9
Fuels and lubricants                                           23.3      21).1     1.'       17.1          2.6.7             10.0           7.3       6.1           7.2
Capi-ul goods                                                  45.2      47.1      56.4      71.0         103.4              30.0          22.9      25.1         27.9
Other                                     '6.6                            7.5       8.0       8.9           4.4              19,0           3.3       3.1           1.2
Totat                                                         190.7    219 6    246f.5    2824            370.2              19.0         1009.   100.9          100.0
Domestic Exports
Sugar and molasses                                             53.5      30.2      34.2     32.9           34.7               4.9          41.4      33.0         28.9
Clothing                                                       13.3      15.3      18.6      20.3          23.0              15.0          22.6      20.3         19.1
Electrical components                                           4.7       6.9       9.1      18.9          22.5             48.0           11.0      18.9         18.7
Other                                                          16.9    ,17.3       20.6      27.8          40.1             33.0           25.0      27.8         33.3
Total domestic merchandise                                     88.4      69.7     82.5      99.9          120.3              20.0         100.0    100.0         106.0
1976 = 100
Goods and NFS trade indices
Export price index                                            109.9    100.0    107.1    117.4            136.4
Inport price index                                             89.9    100.0    106.6    117.0            136.4
Terms of trade index                                          122.2    100.0    100.5    100.3             98.6
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                            Annual  ars percentage of total
Agriculture                                                      37.8      40.6      41.3      43.1          45.7                            11.2       11.1         11.0
Industry                                                         63.9      72.8      71.3      73.7          81.5                            19.3      19.0          19.6
Services                                                        241.7    246.9    256.4    272.1            288.5                            69.5      70.0          69.4
ToLal GDP factor coot                                         343.4    360.3    369.0    388.9            415.7                           100.0    100.0         100.0
Fiscal Year at (Current 01$ million)                                      As percentace of CDP
PUBLIC FINANCES                                                  1973      16        19/7      1978         1                          1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Current revenue                                                 108.3    116.0    134.6    187.2            227.1                     26.7    27.3    28.3    34.9    35.5
Current expenditure                                              86.9    109.7    123.3    151.2            187.4                     21.4    25.8    26.0    28.2    29.3
Current account savings                                          21.4       6.3      11.3      36.0          39.7                       5.3      1.5     2.3      6.7      b.2
Capital expenditure                                              25.0      32.0      45.4      36.5          45.8                       6.1      7.5      9.6      6.8      7.1
Overall deficit                                                  -3.6    -25.7    -34.1        -0.5          -6.1                       0.8      6.0      7.3      O.l     0.9
DETAIL OF PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT                              As percentage of total             SELECTED INDICATORS                                            1974-79
PROGRAM AND FINANCING                                            Actual    Eot.  7a_Lssry
FY78/79          FY79/80
Agricultore, forestry and fishing                                 14.0               9.2           Average ICOR                                                       5.1
Mining and quarrying                                                _                 -            Import elasticity                                                 0.94
Manufacturing and processing                                       5.7               6.8
Other                                                             80.3              84.0
Total expenditures                                             100.0             100.0
Financing
Public sector savings                                           95.1             86.9
External sources                                                44.8              21.2
Other                                                          -39.9              -8.1
Total financing                                                100.0             100.0
fotal Employment                                            Value Added/Worker
Thousands       7. of total      C(rovth rate                                         7. of Average
1970   1977    1970    1977          1970-77                                   1977         1977
Agriculture                                            13.6    6.7    16.5        9.6         -4.6                                    4747        108.5
Manufacturing                                          32.3   14.8    14.9    16.4             2.1                                     2921        66.7
Other Sectors                                          56.4   66.7    68.5    73.9             2.2                                     4235        96.8
Total/Average                                        82.3   90.2   100.0   100.0             1.0                                    4377        100.0



- 22-                                                                                    ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
BARBADOS
BALANCE OF PAYMIETS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(1S0$ million at screat prices)
Act..l                Prel.      st.
1975     1976      1977      1978     1979      1980
SLMiARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exporta (including  FS) a/              221.1    221.9    273.1    340.0    455.9    557.0
Imports (including NFS)                 257.8    281.3    319.4    372.5    498.3    633.3
Resource -bl-nce (X-M)                  -36.7    _s9,4    -46.3    -32.5    -42.4    -76.3
F-t-or 'erices (net)                     -1.4       2.2     -1.8       1.6      -1.4     -3.5
Interest on public debt                 (-2.3)   (-1.9)   (-1.9)   (-3.1)   (-4.9)   (-5.7)
Other (net)                              (0.9)    (4.1)    (0.1)    (4.7)    (3.5)    (2.2)
Current transfers (net)                   7.2      12.7     15.9      16.6      22.1     25.0
BalanW e on current --count             -30.9     44.5      32.2      14.3     21.7      54.8
Net public disbursements                 -0.2       3.9     16.9      14.8       5.0     29.0
Gross disbursements                      (1.5)    (S1?)   (23.9)   (19.1)   (11.8)   (37.0)
Aorti-ation                             (-1.7)   (-1.8)   (.7.0)   (-4.3)   (.6.8)   (-8.0)
Net poiv-te aectr in-estment              5.3      6.2       4.7       6.1       7.7     22.0
Other capit-l trorsocnionz               42.n    1.1       17.8      23.1      18.3     17.2
Chonge6 ir reserves (-increase)         -16.2     19.3      .7.2    -29.7       -9.3    -13.4
(US$ asillion)
GRANTS AND LOAN COWMITNENTS                                                                       EXTERNAL. DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                      Actual                    Prel.
(official gr.ut and grant-like)                                                                                                           1975      1976     1977      1978      1979
+ (public red. 4 10ng-tern l.a.n)
TBRD                                       -         -        -        9.0       8.0              Public debt
IDA                                        _-                                     -                 Outet-diag at cad perlad              26.3      29.9     46,0      60.4      65.9
Other nIultilaterul                       2.3       9.7     12.5       8.3      13.4                Otstanding debt at begi..ieg          26.7      26.3     29.9      46.0      60.4
Guvern=ents (biluterul)                   3.0        -      10.0       1.6       3.8              lat-eest em public debt                  2.3       1.9       1.9      3.1       4.9
Suppliec-                                  -                                                      R- epsy.est oa  public debt              1.7       1.8      7.0       4.3       6.8
Priv-te buank                                        1.5    5.7      10.0        -               Total public debt Bernice                4.0       3.7      8.9       7.4      11.7
Bondu                                           -         -        -              -
Public luons a.e..,
Total public M & LT lu.ms                 5.3      11.2     28.2      28.9      25.2
Burdeo am export e-a.imgS (2)
Outstamdimg smd disbursed
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                              as of Decmber 31. 1979                          Public debt e-ieee b/                    1.8       1.7      3.3       2.2       2.6
(repayable in foreign curreacy)                   us$ mi.             Percent
IBRD                                                 -                  -
IDA                                                  -                  -
Other -ulcilateral                                 19.7               29.9
G-veru-ents                                        25.1               38.1                        Isterest as % prior year                 8.6       7.2      6.3       6.7       8.1
Suppliers                                          0.3                 0.4                        Amrotisatiar as Y prior year             6.4      6.8      23.4       9.3      11.2
Private banbk                                     20.8                31.6
Bonds
Public drbcs n.e.i.
Total psblic M k LT Ioos                                             100.0
a7 The boi.ece of puy-ceuts presemted here include re-ised estimates of t-urist e.pemditures.
b/ Percent of exportv of goods cud NFS.



- 23 -                        ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BARBADOS
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of September 30, 1980
US$ million
(Amount less cancellation)
Loan          Year         Borrower       Purpose       Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
1642-BAR      1979         Barbados       Education      9.0     -          8.5
1685-BAR      1979         Barbados       Tourism        8.0     -          8.0
1813-BAR      1980         Barbados       Industry      10.0     -         10.0
TOTAL                       27.0      -        26.5
of which as been repaid      -        -          _
TOTAL Outstanding           27.0      -        26.5
B.  Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30, 1980
None.
C. Projects in Execution
Ln. No. 1642-BAR: Barbados Education Project; US$9.0 million
Loan of December 29, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is progressing according to schedule. All school sites have
been acquired; phase I of school construction is progressing satisfactorily; furni-
ture lists are completed, and contracts for purchase are expected to be awarded
shortlY.
Ln. No. 1685-BAR: Barbados Tourism Project; US$8.0 million
Loan of April 27, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is progressing according to schedule. Engineering con-
sultants have completed final design. Evaluation of tenders is in progress.
Ln. No. 1813-BAR: Barbados Industrial Development and Export Promotion
Project; US$10.0 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily. The Barbados Industrial
Development Corporation CDC) has introduced its new pricing policy. Both the
Barbados Development Bank (BDB) and BDC are in the process of hiring experts to
strengthen their institutional capabilities. There would be a six-month delay
in the completion of the country's interest rate structure study; however, this
is not expected to adversely affect the imDlementation of the project at this time.



- 24 -                   ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BARBADOS
POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation
(i)  Identification            3/2/79
(b) Project Preparation Agencies
(i) Barbados Light and Power Company
(ii) Ministry of Finance
(c)  Appriasal Mission               11/19/79
(d)  Completion of Negotiations       11/7/80
(e)  Loan effectiveness planned    April 1981
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower has agreed:
(a) to complete the sale of BD$5.0 million worth of shares by
loan effectiveness (para. 59);
(b) to obtain approval of respective loans by CDB, EIB, CDC and
RBC and to sign a contract for the supply of two low-speed
14 MW generators by loan effectiveness (para. 59);
(c) to furnish the Bank, by loan effectiveness, a satisfactory
financing plan for 1981  (para. 59);
(d) to maintain its earnings at a level sufficient to earn a 6%
minimum rate of return on fully revalued net fixed assets
in 1981 and 8% in 1982 and thereafter (paras. 53 and 61);
(e) to maintain a fuel clause that allows it to recover varia-
tions in its fuel costs caused by variations in price of
fuels (para. 61);



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) to pay dividends from retained earnings and that
the payment of such dividends would not affect
the execution of its investment program. BLPC
to review with the Bank no later than two months
before the-end of each fiscal year, its investment
program and proposed financing plan for the following
fiscal year (para. 60);
(g) to obtain the Bank's agreement before incurring further
debt, if its projected debt service coverage ratio falls
below 1.5, and before raising its overdraft limit above
BD$10.0 million (para. 60);
(h) to maintain cash reserves less overdraft at the end of
1981, 1982 and thereafter equivalent to 5% znd 9% res-
pectively of annual fuel and cash operating expenses of
the previous 12 months (para. 60);
(i) to undertake studies, under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank, on generation expansion and the use of indi-
genous energy sources, tariff structure and energy con-
servation. The recommendations of the studies to be
reviewed by the Bank (paras. 41 and 48);
(j) to issue upon request by the Bank, as security for the
Bank loan, additional debentures under an existing
Debenture Trust Deed ranking pari-passu with other
lenders covered by the Debenture Trust Deed (para. 59);
(k) to issue BD$10.0 million worth of shares in the Barbados
market in two issues of BD$5.0 million worth each in December
1980 and in 1983 with the purpose of raising financing
for its investment program and at the same time increasing
the local ownership in the Company (para. 59).
The Government agreed:
(a) not to interfere with BLPC in carrying out its obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement (para. 61);
(b) to undertake studies of the operating procedures of the
PUB and to establish criteria for power rat:es in
Barbados. The recommendations of the studies to be
reviewed by the Bank (para. 40); and
(c) to purchase any shares from the sale of the 1980
and 1983 issues that may not be purchased by the local
private investors (para. 59).






IBRD 15063
9e35  .   tt8A                      JULY 1980
U. . J
-i3e2a - t3°Zy N A t / o n / S c~~~~~~~3,2a
CRABHI LL.                                                                                           °ceon
2? G    X           DOMLC                    20
-AMA~A ARITi    '        .ERTO RICO
.. ' . . s_Zx, ) . ~~~~~~~~~JAMAICA z <
Caribbeon   Sea  GADCD
T.SNIDAD &
C,IINKE(TTS                                  --T  Dg'>X}W
-,        N        OR711                                 \ iRPANAMA  5    10A
f,                  t                     f a  SOUTH  AMERICA
70-               60
F .LEPLAN                     W30'
~ST, NDREW
/ t                    BATHSHEBA  *
-t         lI N A-:-t                             'v-            )   G      t%          Airport
...        . .         .  ,, ST T--  ...... , HOMAt,  S \
HOLECTOW C  OW                        A SYSTE
EXISB   PrOJCT        RS rEF(ir.
7-  -           iFB                           
-3' ELCRIDG                                                                                                          13'OYSYTE 
72 KV TANASMISSIN LINE
____       -__ T_              24 KY PR,MARY FEEDERS
*       72 KV SUBSTATIONS
0              :             24 KV SUBSTATIONS
IJS3~0    *                          THERMAL POWER PLANTS             0       .           3      4      SMiles        13J-
E   0   -2    - 4   6    8 Kilometers
BUILT--UP   REAS                                     h       rdby the Whed Shastsfoexc)ushe4'fi^oteeoieyeF
--  PAiRISH BOLiNDARtESof vh mm of tf* repot .                     which i is _thacb. The deomhIt, O,m eedand tho
PARISH 80   .                     hre,e~~~~~~~~~~~~A~~W*f mui 0,,ey k'w  rt b-P.ofet,e Wend ee,k sois I'M
'sJdttt an the f  fe state  of ortwy ctstitto,y   sy a dtiorseme~t or
5 si915i      ,      :              ,*   59n30



