OFFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 1940 BAR
DOCUMENTS
Guarantee Agreement
(Power Project)
between
BARBADOS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1940 BAR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                     , 1981,
between BARBADOS (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and The Barbados Light and Power Company Limited (herein-
after called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to six million
dollars ($6,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agrees to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Guarantor


﻿-2-
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium,
if any, on the prepayment of the Loan all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of Part E (2) of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall carry out Part E (2) of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and financial practices.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Guarantor in carry-
ing out Part E (2) of the Project, the Guarantor shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Guarantor shall promptly furnish the Bank for its
review and comments the results of the studies to be carried out
under Part E (2) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made


﻿-3-
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any
of its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions
to take any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations contained in the
Loan Agreement and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable
action necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower to perform
such obligations.
Section 4.03. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, any additional debentures shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from any taxes levied under the laws of
the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories; provided,
however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to
taxation of payments under any such additional debentures to a
holder thereof other than the Bank when such additional debentures
are beneficially owned by an individual or corporate resident of
the Guarantor.
Section 4.04. The additional debentures shall be free from
any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor or in
connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration
thereof.


﻿-4-
Section 4.05. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, any additional debentures shall be paid without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Guarantor.
Section 4.06. In order to assist the Borrower in fulfilling
its obligations under Section 5.09 of the Loan Agreement and in
order to ensure majority local ownership of the Borrower, the
Guarantor shall, except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, purchase any shares of the Borrower not sold
through the issues of shares required under the said Section.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the
Guarantor is designated as 'representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minister of' Finance and Planning
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Government Headquarters
Bay Street, St. Michael
Barbados
Cable address:                       Telex:
EXTERNALBAR                        WB 222
Barbados
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-5-
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
BARBADOS
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By         N, 'co4"'  A'UL&     CB4
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /L9t     day of      &, 198   .
FOR SECRETARY


