OFFICIAL         LOAN NUMBER 1940 BAR
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE BARBADOS LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY LIMITED
Dated      F     h   k, 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1940 BAR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and THE BARBADOS LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY LIMITED
(hereinafter called the Borrower), a company incorporated and
registered under the Companies Act 1910 of Barbados.
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 hereto by
making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Caribbean
Development Bank a loan (hereinafter called the CDB Loan) in an
amount equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000) to assist in
financing 69 kV transmission lines included in the Borrower's
1980-85 Capital Investment Program (hereinafter called the Pro-
gram);
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation a loan (hereinafter called the CDC Loan)
in an amount equivalent to five million pounds sterling
(95,000,000 Sterling) to assist in financing distribution and
other works included in the Program;
(D) the Borrower intends to obtain from the European Invest-
ment Bank a loan (hereinafter called the EIB Loan) in an amount
equivalent to five million European Units of Account (5,000,000
Units of Account) to assist in financing substations and super-
visory control equipment included in the Program;
(E) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Royal Bank of
Canada a loan (hereinafter called the RBC Loan) in an amount
equivalent to twelve million Barbados dollars (BD$12,000,000) to
assist in converting the Borrower's overdraft into long term debt;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a guarantee
agreement of even date herewith between Barbados (hereinafter
called the Guarantor) and the Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Debenture Trust Deed" means the Debenture Trust Deed
dated March 18, 1974 between the Borrower, Commonwealth Develop-
ment Corporation, Royal Bank Trust Company (Barbados) Limited, the
Export-Import Bank of the United States, the Bank of Nova Scotia,
Export Development Corporation, Lloyds Bank Limited and Royal Bank
Trust Company (Barbados) Limited as trustee;
(b) "additional debentures" means any debenture or debenture
stock of the Borrower required to be issued under Section 6.01(a)
hereof which may be created pursuant to the powers reserved by
Clause 5 of the Debenture Trust Deed and which are entitled to the
benefit of the security created by the Debenture Trust Deed;
(c) "Memorandum and Articles of Association" means the
Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Borrower dated
May 6, 1955 as amended to the date of this Agreement and as
further amended in consultation with the Bank;
(d) "Electric Light and Power Act" means the Electric Light
and Power Act of the Guarantor as amended to the date of this
Agreement; and
(e) "Public Utilities Board" means the Public Utilities
Board constituted and operating under the Public Utilities Act of
the Guarantor.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six
million dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and one-fourth per cent (9.25%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
(except Part E (2)) with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with approp7.iate engineering, administrative, financial
and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall, as necessary, employ engi-
neering, financial and technical consultants and experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly furnish the Bank for its
review and comments the results of the studies to be carried out
under Part E (1) of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make available to the
Guarantor as a grant not less than one hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($150,000) or such other amounts as shall be allocated to
Category (5) (b) in Schedule 1 hereto for purposes of the studies
to be carried out by the Guarantor.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and any benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, any benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and any benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such rights,
interests and licenses in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
thereafter, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such rights,
interests and licenses are available for purposes related to the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times: (i) manage
its affairs and maintain its financial position; (ii) plan its


﻿-6-
future expansion; (iii) operate and maintain its plant, equipment
and other property and from time to time make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof; and (iv) carry on its operations in
an efficient manner under capable management and with the assis-
tance of qualified and experienced personnel, all in accordance
with sound business, financial, administrative, engineering and
public utility practices.
Section 4.02 (a) The Borrower shall take all reasonable steps
necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business including the grant of a new provisional
order under the Electric Light and Power Act authorizing it to
supply electricity for the period specified in that Act.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not transfer, or permit to be trans-
ferred, to any other person or entity any portion of its property
the transfer of which would in any manner significantly affect the
operations or the financial position of the Borrower.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound public utility and business
practices.
(b) The Borrower shall review its insurance coverage and
furnish and discuss with the Bank not later than December 31, 1981
the results of the review.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) have
the results of the revaluation of its gross fixed assets in


﻿-7-
operation required by Section 5.06 (a) hereof (including the
effect of such revaluation on the Borrower's financial statements)
reviewed by the said auditors; (iii) furnish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited, (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested and (C) the review by said
auditors of the results of the said revaluation of the Borrower's
gross fixed assets in operation; and (iv) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such pro-
perty; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all necessary actions (including tariff
adjustments) to produce revenue sufficient to yield an annual
rate of return on the net value of fixed assets in operation of at
least six per cent (6%) in 1981 and eight per cent (8%) there-
after. For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the rate of return in respect of any fiscal year
shall be calculated by dividing the Borrower's net
income from operations for that year by the average
net value of fixed assets in operation during that
fiscal year;


﻿(ii) the term "net income from operations" means gross
operating revenue (including surcharge revenue from
temporary rates in the year billed) less all
operating, administrative and overhead expenses
including depreciation, taxes payable, and levies,
if any, or any payments in lieu thereof, but
without deduction of deferred taxes, investment tax
credits, interest or other charges on debt;
and
(iii) the term "average net value of fixed assets
in operation" means one-half of the sum of (A)
the value of the Borrower's gross fixed assets in
operation less accumulated depreciation calculated
on a straight-line basis at rates acceptable to
the Bank for various categories of fixed assets,
all as determined in accordance with methods
of valuation and revaluation acceptable to the Bank
at the beginning of the fiscal year, plus (B)
the value of the Borrower's gross fixed assets in
operation as so determined less accumulated depre-
ciation as so calculated at the end of the year in
question; provided, however, that if a major
asset is brought into operation during the year,
the value of such asset shall be included in
the foregoing computation in respect of that part
of the year during which such asset shall have been
in operation.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall: (i) at the end of its 1981
fiscal year maintain cash reserves which shall not be less than
five per cent (5%) of its fuel and cash operating expenses for
such fiscal year, and (ii) at the end of each following fiscal
year maintain cash reserves which shall not be less than nine per
cent (9%) of such expenses for such fiscal year.
For the purposes of this Section, the term "cash reserves"
means the balance of the Borrower's cash account plus the undrawn
portion of its bank overdraft facility and any sums reimbursable
by a financial institution.
Section 5.06. (a) The Borrower shall, commencing Decem-
ber 31, 1980, revalue its assets annually in accordance with
methods of revaluation acceptable to the Bank.


﻿-9-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall continue to maintain the fuel
clause component of its tariffs which enables it to recover,
through tariff variations, any costs resulting from fuel price
variations; and (ii) shall periodically adjust the said clause to
allow for any significant changes in generating plant mix.
Section 5.07. (a) The Borrower shall obtain the Bank's
agreement before raising the limit of its bank overdraft facility
above ten million Barbados dollars (BD$10,000,000).
(b) The Borrower shall each year review with the Bank,
not later than two months before the end of the fiscal year, the
Borrower's investment program and proposed financial plan for the
fiscal year next following.
(c) Before contracting for the units described in Part B of
Schedule 5 hereto or any investment estimated to cost one million
dollars ($1,000,000) or more which is not included in the invest-
ment program described in Part A of Schedule 5 hereto, the Bor-
rower shall: (i) furnish the Bank with evidence showing that the
investment is justifiable technically, economically and financi-
ally; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
any such evidence; and (iii) demonstrate that such units are
justified by the generation planning study included in Part E (1)
of the Project.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any long-term debt unless its net
revenue for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence, or
for a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the
maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year
on all of its long-term indebtedness then outstanding (including
the long-term debt to be incurred).    For the purposes of this
Section:
(a) the term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred, including any debt represented by bonds;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date the loan contract or agreement
providing for such debt is entered into, and (ii) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee is entered into;


﻿- 10 -
(c) the term "net revenue" means gross revenue from all
sources adjusted to take account of power rates in effect at
the time of calculation even though they.were not in effect during
the twelve consecutive months to which such revenue related,
less operating and administrative expenses, including provision
for taxes payable, if any, but before provision for depreciation,
deferred taxes, investment tax credits and interest and other
charges on debt;
(d) the term "debt-service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund contributions,
if any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency
of the Guarantor debt payable ia another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by the Borrower, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt or,
if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of
exchange that will be reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 5.09. In order to assist the Borrower in financing
the Borrower's investment program described in Schedule 5 hereto,
the Borrower shall (except as otherwise agreed by the Borrower and
the Bank) offer for sale to nationals or residents in Barbados or
to the Guarantor not less than two million of the Borrower's
.shares of which one million shall be offered by the Effective Date
and the remaining one million shares by December 31, 1983.
ARTICLE VI
Additional Debentures
Section 6.01. (a) The Borrower shall,upon request by the
Bank, issue additional debentures supplemental to the Debenture
Trust Deed, ranking pari passu with the floating charge created by
the Debenture Trust Deed and securing the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an opinion
or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of legal counsel acceptable
to the Bank showing that any additional debentures issued pursuant
to paragraph (a) above have been validly and effectively executed,
issued, delivered and registered, and have created valid and
effective charges and priorities in accordance with their terms.


﻿- 11 -
(c) Except as the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the
Bank shall not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any such
additional debentures other than for the purpose of protecting its
interests, in the event of a default or a threat thereof, in the
payment of principal, interest or any other charge required under
this Agreement, and in such event the Bank shall be subject to no
limitation of whatsoever kind or nature which may attempt to
restrict the form or method of disposition of the additional
debentures.
(d) Insofar as, and to the extent that, the obligation
for the repayment of principal on any additional debentures shall
have been so discharged, the Bank shall surrender to the Borrower
such additional debentures for cancellation.
Section 6.02. Subject to the exemptions conferred by Sections
4.03 and 4.04 of the Guarantee Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
or cause to be paid all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of
the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration of
the additional debenture or the payment of principal, interest and
other charges thereunder; provided, however, that the provisions
of this Section shall not apply to taxation of payments under any
additional debenture to a holder thereof other than the Bank when
such additional debenture is beneficially owned by an individual
or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
Section 6.03. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid
all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the country or
countries in whose currency the additional debenture is payable or
laws in effect in the territories of such country or countries on
or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registra-
tion of the additional debentures.
Section 6.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all covenants,
agreements and obligations to be performed by it under the Deben-
ture Trust Deed.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿- 12 -
(a) the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the
Borrower shall have been amended in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the Borrower's business, its management and
operations, or its financial condition or the carrying out of the
Project;
(b) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been cre-
ated, acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business, its management and operations or its
financial condition or the carrying out of the Project;
(c) the Borrower shall have been unable to obtain the grant
of a provisional order under the Electric Light and Power Act
authorizing it to supply electricity for the period specified in
the Act;
(d) a change shall have been made in the Electric Light and
Power Act or in any orders or regulations made thereunder which
will materially and adversely affect the Borrower's business, its
management and operation, or its financial condition or the
carrying out of the Project;
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) below:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CDB Loan, CDC Loan, EIB Loan
or RBC Loan shall have been suspended, cancel-
led or terminated in whole or in part, pur-
suant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) the CDB Loan, CDC Loan, EIB Loan or RBC Loan
shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) above shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B)   adequate funds for the purposes of the CDB
Loan, CDC Loan, EIB Loan or RBC Loan, as the


﻿- 13 -
case may be, are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Bor-
rower under this Agreement.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, any event specified in Section
7.01 (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) (i) (B) above shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the Borrower has completed the sale of five
million Barbados dollars (BD$5,000,000) worth of its shares;
(b) that the CDB- Loan, CDC Loan, EIB Loan and RBC Loan
have been approved by the board of directors or managements
authorized to approve the said loans or any other financing
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank have been made;
(c) that the Bank has been furnished with a satisfactory
financing plan of the Borrower for 1981; and
(d) that the Borrower has signed a contract satisfactory
to the Bank for the delivery to the Borrower of two base load
diesel generators of about 14 MW each.
Section 8.02. The date  r4    I    1ff)   , is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-14-
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
The Barbados Light and
Power Company Limited
Garrison Hill
St. Michael,
Barbados
Cable address:                       Telex:
KILOWATT                            2241 KILOWATT WB
Barbados
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By ~J"~A0J~d
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
THE BARBADOS LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) 24 kV feeder               1,752,000           100% of for-
conversion                                    eign expendi-
tures
(2) Distribution               1,312,000           100% of for-
transformers                                  eign expendi-
tures
(3) Service drops                362,000           100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(4) Capacitors                    22,000           100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(5) Studies
(a) Part E (1)              600,000           100% of for-
of the Project                           eign expendi-
tures
(b) Part E (2)              150,000           100%
of the Project
(6) Unallocated                1,802,000
TOTAL    6,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on th  importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project which forms part of the Borrower's 1980-85
Capital Investment Program consists of the following Parts:
A.   24 kV Primary Feeders
Conversion of about 312 km of 11 kV primary feeders to 24
kV; and replacement of about 21,000 kVA of existing industrial
transformers associated with the conversion.
B.   Distribution Transformers
Installation of about 42,300 kVA of 24 kV/120-240 V distribu-
tion transformers.
C.   Service Drops
Installation of about 16,500 customer service connections
consisting of about 450 km of 120-240 V conductors from the
secondary pole line to the customers' meters.
D.   Capacitors
Installation of about 16.5 MVAR of capacitors to maintain
a system power factor of 0.90.
E.   Studies
(1) Generation planning, energy conservation and marginal
cost tariff studies requiring a total of about 60
man-months of consultants' services.
(2) Studies of criteria for setting power rates and operat-
ing procedures of the Public Utilities Board requiring
about 15 man-months of consultants' services.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿-18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1984
through   January 1, 1996                   250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium*
Not more than three years
beforelmaturity                                     1.85%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            3.70%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     6.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                     8.00%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                     9.25%
*    The life on the Loan is calculated from the estimated
date of Board approval to the date of the last maturity
rounded to the nearest year.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C below, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Regional Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 21 -
Barbados and countries which are members of the Caribbean Commu-
nity including the Caribbean Common Market may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following four groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Barbados if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Barbados equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Barbados.
(3) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a
country (other than Barbados) which is a party to
the treaty establishing the Caribbean Community
including the Caribbean Common Market and entitled
to preferential treatment thereunder.
(4) Group D: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of
each group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be
compared among themselves, without taking into account customs
duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the
importation, and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with
the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such
lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and
if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C or group D, all


﻿- 22 -
group C or group D bids shall be further compared with the lowest
evaluated bid from group A after adding to the evaluated bid price
of the imported goods offered in each group C or group D bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to:
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the
goods offered in such group C or group D bid; or (ii) 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of such price. If the group A or group C bid in such
further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the
award.
5.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 4
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group D, all group D bids
shall be finally compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
C, as determined under paragraph 3 above, after adding to the
c.i.f bid price of the imported goods offered in each group D bid,
for the purpose of this final comparison only, an amount equal to:
(i) the difference between the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which would actually be payable for the importation
of good offered in such group D bid and for the importation of
goods offered in the group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of goods to be imported offered in such group D bid, if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group C
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group D shall
be selected.
C.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $50,000 but not exceeding $250,000 in the aggregate shall be
let after competitive bidding based on local advertising in
accordance with local procurement procedures.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
prequalification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part B above and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's


﻿- 23 -
decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall


﻿- 24 -
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Investment Program
Part A:
1.   Two low-speed diesel units of about 14 MW (peaking capacity)
each.
2.   69 kV transmission line of about 15 km in length.
3.    Two 69/24 kV substations, one mobile substation, modifica-
tions to existing 24 kV substations and supervisory control.
4.    Conversion of about 402 km of 11 kV primary feeders to
24 kV.
5.   80 MVA of distribution transformers and associated modifica-
tions to the 240 V secondary system, 23-8 MVAR of capacitors,
36,400 meters and 300 street lights.
Part B:
Two additional low speed diesel units of about 14 MW each.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and afixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   /9I    day of-.,,.  , 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


