- 6         7
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 481 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion and
Plant Operations Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 481 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion and
Plant Operations Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1974, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by the Fertilizer
Corporation of India with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the Fertilizer Corporation of India part of
the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C)   Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Fortilisers and
Chemicals, Travancore Limited with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Fertilisers and Chemicals,
Travancore Limited part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth 1ereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Fertilizer Corporation of India;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to    Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions),
namely that paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term Borrower means India, acting by its President."


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "FCI" means the Fertilizer Corporation     of India, a company
established under the Companies Act, 1956, as amended, of India;
(b)   "FACT" means the Fertilisers and Chemicals, Travancore Limited, a
company established under the Companies Act, 1956, as amended, of India;
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and FCI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loa- Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and FCI pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, if any;
(e)   "Power-Gas" means Davy Power Gas GmbH, Cologne, Federal Republic
of Germany;
(f)   "Uhde" means Friedrich Uhde GmbH, Dortmund, Federal Republic
of Germany;
(g)   "Trombay IV" means the proposed expansion of nitric acid and
nitrophosphate fertilizer production in the Trombay Unit under Part A of the
Project;
(h)   "Trombay V" means the proposed ammonia/urea project in the
Trombay Unit;
(i)   "Trombay Unit" means the fertilizer production facilities owned by
FCI and located in Bombay, Maharashtra, including proposed expansion under the
Trombay IV and the Trombay V; and
(j)   "Plant Operations Improvement Program" means a program for the
commissioning and improvement of operations of FCI and FACT fertilizer plants.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1984 and ending January 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
FCI to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, cause FACT
to perform its undertakings in accordance with the provisions referred to in Section
3.03 of this Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable FCI and FACT to perform such obligations, and shall not take or cause
or permit any of its political subdivisions or any of its agencies or any agency
of any such political subdivisions to take, any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance by FCI and FACT.
(b)   To carry out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall relend the
equivalent of $33,000,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit to FCI under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and FCI under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association which shall include, inter alia,
the following:
(i)         the loan will be repaid by FCI to the Borrower in ten equal
annual installments commencing five years from the Effective
Date; and
(ii)       interest, including special charges, if any, shall be paid on the
outstanding balance from time to time at the rate of nine and
one-half per cent (9-1/2%) per annum.
(c)   To carry out Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall make
available to FCI and FACT such part of the proceeds of the Credit as shall be
agreed to by the Association, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all steps
necessary to implement the Plant Operations Improvement Program Implementation
Plan, dated May 15, 1974, submitted to and approved by the Association.


﻿7
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall obtain from FACT an undertaking, in a
form approved by the Association:
(i)         to carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, financial
and administrative practices;
(ii)        in carrying out Part C of the Project, to employ, where necessary,
consultants acceptable to the Association, upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(iii)       to procure equipment, spares and materials to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to
the Project Agreement and to use such goods exclusively in the
carrying out of Part C of the Project;
(iv)        to furnish to the Association through the Borrower promptly
upon their preparation, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for Part C of the Project
and any material modifications subsequently made therein, in
such detail as the Association shall from time to time request;
(v)         to maintain records adequate to identify the goods and services
acquired out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower, to disclose the use thereof in the Project,
to record the progress of Part C of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of FACT;
(vi)        to allow the Association's representatives to inspect Part C of
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of FACT, included in the Project, the
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(vii)       to insure with responsible insurers, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, all goods acquired out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower, such insurance
shall cover such marine, transit and other risks incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation; shall be for such amounts as shall be


﻿8
consistent with sound business practices; and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
FACT to replace or repair such goods;
(viii)      in addition, to insure against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound business and engineering
practices or to make other adequate arrangements to cover
promptly any damage or losses resulting from such risks;
(ix)        to inform  the Borrower and the Association promptly of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the carrying
out of Part C of the Project;
(x)         to give all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request relating to the financial condition, the operation and
administration of FACT;
(xi)        to furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning Part C of the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds; and
(xii)       to (A) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related stater.ments) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (B) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but, in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (1) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (2) report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (C)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the foregoing accounts and financial statements as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) When, with respect to any equipment to be procured under
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, the lowest evaluated bid falls under Group


﻿9
C (as defined in paragraph B(2)(b) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement), the
Borrower shall immediately grant permission to import the goods covered by the
contract, and no reviews of such permission to import shall be made by the
Borrower or by any of its agencies, and all foreign exchange required therefor
shall be promptly made available. When, with respect to any contract, the lowest
evaluated bid falls under Group A or under Group B (as defined in paragraph
B(2)(b) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement), the Borrower shall (i) promptly
upon receipt of the appropriate applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such
import licenses as shall be required to implement the contract; (ii) make available,
or cause to be made available, promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which
shall be required therefor; and (iii) with respect to locally produced materials which
are subject to allocation, make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials
promptly and in such quantities as shall be required for such contract.
(b)   Whenever it is determined, pursuant to Section 2.04(b) of the Project
Agreement, that any equipment or material cannot be delivered on or prior to
its scheduled delivery date and that such delay would adversely affect the
completion of the Project, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary action
to permit FCI to procure such equipment or material by such procedures as shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the
Association for the supply of all materials, including ammonia and phosphate rock,
by permitting imports if and when necessary, in such quantities as shall be adequate
to operate the Trombay Unit up to full capacity.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to ensure that
adequate electrical power is made available to FCI for operations of the Trombay
Unit.
Section 4.04. The Borrower covenants to make available to FCI sufficient
funds to satisfy any third party claims filed prior to the date of this Agreement
and awarded against FCI by a court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall provide FCI with sufficient funds, promptly
as needed, to complete all of FCI's ongoing fertilizer production projects and such
other similar projects as m-y be undertaken by FCI, on terms which shall not
undermine FCI's sound financial position. For the purposes of this Section, the
term  "complete" means the date upon which the manufacturing facilities included
in the aforesaid projects have maintained an average daily production rate of 80%
of full capacity, during a period of thirty consecutive days.


﻿10
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall not take or cause to be taken any action
which, assuming production under conditions of efficient operation, would prevent
fertilizer manufacturers in the territories of the Borrower from meeting their
expenses and servicing debt out of their revenues, and from earning a reasonable
return on invested capital.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   FCI shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   a default shall have occurred on the part of FACT in the performance
of any undertaking referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(c)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FCI or for the suspension
of its operations;
(d)   FCI or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action
for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Trombay Unit or for the suspension
of its operations;
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FACT or for the suspension
of its operations; and
(f)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that FCI will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower, and FCI or
FACT, as the case may be; and
-VP.


﻿(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of FCl
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and FCI, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the portion of the Credit allocated under Category 2 of Table
I set out in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account for carrying out Part C of the Project, namely, that the Association has
approved the undertaking referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, FCI, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of FCI in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and FCI, respectively,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and FCI in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date August 30, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿12
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02, 4.03,
4.05, 4.06 and paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date 16 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Serretary, Joint Secretary, Officer
on Special Duty or Director/Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of Finance,
Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿13
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. L. Weiner
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
1.   For Trombay Unit
(a)  Equipment,               19,500,000          100% of total
raterials                                    expenditures
and spares
(b)   License fees             3,600,000          100% of total
and design                                  expenditures
engineering
(c)  Erection and              4,600,000          100% of total
commissioning                               expenditures
of plants
(d)  Project man-              1,800,000          100% of total
agement and                                 expenditures
training
2.   For FCI and FACT
operations included
in Parts B and C
of the Project
(a)  Equipment and            12,000,000          100% of foreign
spares                                       expenditures
(b)  Consumable                2,000,000          100% of foreign
materials                                    expenditures


﻿15
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(c)  Technical                 3,000,000          100% of foreign
Services                                    expenditures
3.   Unallocated                     3,500,000
TOTAL        50,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory and in the currency of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b)  the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made:
(a)  in respect of expenditures prior to May 1, 1974;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territory on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the Table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes;
(c)   expenditures for freight and insurance in the territory of the Borrower;
and


﻿16
(d)   in respect of expenditures uider Category 2 of the table set forth
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, until the Association's prior approval shall have
been obtained for the use thereof by FCI and FACT, respectively.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is an expansion of the FCI's production facilities in the Trombay
Unit designed to increase the production capacity of nitric acid by 250,000 tons
per year and nitrophosphate fertilizers by 355,000 tons per year (Part A), and
implementation of the Plant Operations Improvement Program to assist FCI and
FACT in the production of fertilizers (Parts B and C). The Project comprises:
Part A:
(i)         Construction and commissioning of a nitrophosphate production
plant with a capacity of 355,000 tons per year;
(ii)        Construction and commissioning of a nitric acid plant with a
capacity of 250,000 tons per year;
(iii)       Acquisition and installation of a steam generation unit, cooling
towers, bagging machine and storage equipment, water treatment
plant and miscellaneous equipment for Trombay IV; and
(iv)        Utilization of engineering services for procurement and erection
of equipment, materials and facilities for Trombay IV.
Part B:
Utilization of consultants' services; implementation of a training program;
purchase and utilization of equipment, spares and materials for FCI to
expedite commissioning of plants under construction, and to increase capacity
utilization in existing facilities.
Part C
Utilization of consultants' services; implementation of a training program;
purchase and utilization of equipment, spares and materials for FACT to
expedite commissioning of plants under construction, and to increase capacity
utilization in existing facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


