CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 481 IN
Project Agreement
(Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion and
Plant Operations Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA
DATED JUNE 19, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 481 IN
Project Agreement
(Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion and
Plant Operations Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA
DATED JUNE 19, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA (hereinafter called FCI).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), on
the ten-ns and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that FCI agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and FCI, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to FCI on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS FCI, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. FCi shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and


﻿4
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist FCI in process and engineering design,
procurement, construction and start-up, FCI shall, under agreements with Power
Gas and Uhde obtain licenses, plant designs and consultant services acceptable to
the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FC1 shall:
(a)   in  carrying out Parts A    and B of the Project, act as managing
contractor. In addition, FC1 shall employ competent and experienced contractors
as necessary to carry out Parts A and B of the Project;
(b)   employ, for the duration of the Project, a suitably qualified and
experienced Project Manager to be responsible for the execution of Part A of the
Project, including, inter alia, budget and schedule control and general engineering,
procurement, and construction duties, and provide the Project Manager with
adequate staff and facilities to carry out such functions;
(c)   consult with the Association before making any change in the position
of the Project Manager in the Trombay Unit; and
(d)   promptly enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Association with
appropriate agencies and corporations for the provision of adequate railway services
and for the supply of fuel oil, electricity, water and coal, to ensure the timely
availability of such services and supplies in sufficient quantity and of appropriate
quality for the full utilization of the facilities to be constructed at the Trombay
Unit.
Section 2.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts
for the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions cf Schedule I to this
Agreement.
(b)   If at any time the Association or FCI determines, after consultation
with each other and the Borrower, that any equipment or material cannot be
delivered on or prior to its scheduled delivery date, and that such delay would
adversely affect completion of the Project, FCI shall promptly take all necessary


﻿5
action to procure such equipment or material by such procedures as shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. FCI shall use its best endeavors to carry out the Trombay
IV proiect:
(i)         in accordance with a critical path schedule entitled C.P.M. Chart
for Trombay IV, dated April 20, 1974, submitted to and
approved by the Association and, in that regard, shall give special
attention to the timely procurement of critical equipment; and
(ii)        in accordance with the Trombay IV Expansion Implementation
Plan set forth in the document dated May 14, 1974, submitted
to and approved by the Association.
Section 2.06. (a) FCI undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to it by the Borrower, against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance, any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by FCI to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, FCI shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) FCI shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for Parts A and B of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   FCI: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of Parts
4 and B of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by
the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in Parts A and B of the Project;
(ii) shall, without. limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in Parts A and B of the Project, and to examine the goods financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿6
concerning Parts A and B of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceedj.
(c)   FCI shall enable the Association's representatives to examine all(plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of FCI and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.08. FCI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FCI shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. FCI shall take all steps necessary to implement the Trombay
V project in order to bring it into operation in accordance with a schedule contained
in Time Schedule For Trombay V Expansion Project, dated May 14, 1974,
submitted to and approved by the Association.
Section 2.10. FCI shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the
execution and operation of Part A of the Project is carried out with due regard
to ecological and environmental factors, and shall comply with the environmental
quality standards set by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay.
Section 2.11. (a) FCI shall, at the request of the Association:
(i)         exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress
of Parts A and B of the Project, the progress of Trombay V,
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit; and
(ii)       furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request in respect of Parts A and B of the Project
and the Trombay V.
(b)   FCI shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Parts A and B of the
Project, the progress of Trombay V, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by FCI of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FCI
Section 3.01. FCI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insLrance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. FCI shall:
(a)   at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its
future expansion and carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate
business, financial and engineering practices and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management assisted by adequate and competent staff;
(b)   promptly staff with experienced and competent personnel any vacant
position related to the construction and operation of the facilities included in Parts
A and B of the Project; and
(c)   appoint, after consultation with the Association, a suitably qualifled
successor if it appears that a vacancy will occur in the position of the General
Manager of the Trombay Unit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FCI shall:
(a)   at all times take all steps which are necessary to maintain its existence
and its right to carry on operations and to acquire and retain ownership of all
lands and to maintain and renew all interests in land and other properties and
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project or in the conduct of its business;
(b)   at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and
other property, and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices;
(c)   not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its business and
undertaking; and
(d)   not alter its corporate structure or amend its Memorandum or Articles
of Association in any way that will materially and adversely affect its ability to
perform its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. FCI shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. FCI shall: (i) have the Trombay Unit's and FCI's accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Trombay Unit and FCI and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FCI shall:
(a)   maintain separate accounts for the Trombay Unit and consolidated
accounts for all FCI's operations; and
(b)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than 30 days after the end of each quarter and fiscal year:
(i)         quarterly  consolidated  financial statements (balance sheets,
statments of income and expenses and cash flow) for FCI;
(ii)        quarterly financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses, cash flow and related statements) for the
Trombay Unit; and
(iii)       quarterly and annual forecast statements of production, income
and cash flow for FCI and for the Trombay Unit.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)   FCI shall take all necessary steps, including in particular limiting its
indebtedness (excluding debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and


﻿9
payable on demand or not more than one year after the date of its incurrence),
to maintain a long-term debt-equity ratio not greater than 50:50 for the Trombay
Unit and also for FCI on a consolidated basis.
(b)   FCI shall: (i) maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities
(hereinafter referred to as current ratio) of at least 1.2:1; (ii) not declare dividends
or prepay any debt if, after the payment of such dividend (assuming such payment
was made on the date of such declaration) or debt, FCI's current ratio shall be
less than 1.5:1; and (iii) not cause or permit its Trombay Unit to prepay any
of its outstanding debts or to transfer amounts from its accounts to the rest of
FCI's accounts, if such prepayment or transfer would reduce the Trombay Unit's
current ratio below 1.2:1.
For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         the term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing by its terms
more than twelve months after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(ii)        the term  "equity" means all unimpaired paid-in share capital
plus accumulated earnings or losses from prior fiscal years not
set apart for specific purposes;
(iii)       the term "current assets" means stock of spares, cash (excluding
advances to contractors for construction of projects and for
additions to fixed assets), assets readily convertible into cash,
and all other assets which could in the ordinary course of
business be converted within one year into cash or assets readily
convertible into cash;
(iv)        the term  "current liabilities" means liabilities due and payable
and all other liabilities which would be due and payable, or could
be called for payment, within one year, including the portion
of long-term indebtedness falling due within one year; and
(v)         the term "debt" does not include debt payable on demand or
maturing not more than one year after its date.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿10
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of FCI thereunder shall terminat- on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 16 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify FCI of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿11
For FCI:
Fertilizer Corporation of India
F-43 South Extension Area Part I
Ring Road
New Delhi 49, India
Cable address:
FERTILIZER
New Delhi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of FCI may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other person
or persons as FCI shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. FCI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of FCI, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by FCI pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. L. Weiner
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding except as provided
in paragraph A.2 hereof.
2.    Contracts, (i) for the procurement of items proprietory to the process design
and those with limited sources of availability whose timely supply is critical to
efficient execution of the Project, may be placed through negotiations with
appropriate suppliers, provided, that prior approval of the Association is obtained
for said items and that the terms and conditions of the contracts so placed are
acceptable to the Association, and (ii) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or less may be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, provided, that the supplies
covered under such contracts and the list of suppliers thereof have been approved
by the Association.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the firm f.o.b. price (plus
estimated freight and insurance charges) for imported goods, or th. ex-factory price
for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿13
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the FCI and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in India.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the f.o.b. bid price (plus
estimated freight and insurance) of the imported goods offered in each group C
bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid,
or (ii) 15% of the f.o.b. bid price (plus estimated freight and insurance) of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    FCI shall, before qualification is invited, inform  the Association in detail
of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by FCI to
the Association for its comments before the applicants are notified, and FCI shall


﻿14
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
2.    With respect to all contracts for equipment or materials estimated to cost
the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a)   FCI shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its comments
(not being later than the date upon which invitations to bid are issued), the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, FCI shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and FCI and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, FCI shall furnish to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together, in
the case of any such contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more,
with copies of the tender documents, the analysis of bids, recommendations for


﻿15
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and FCI and
state the reasons for such determination.


