Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11656
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR CREDIT
(CREDIT 1816-BD)
FEBRUARY 12, 1993
Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
I Taka - US$0.0325                           I Taka - US$O.0310
30.80 Taka - US$1.00                         32.27 Taka - US$1.00
(June 1987)                                  (May 1989)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB   Asian Development Bank                 IPO   Import Policy Order
BB    Bangladesh Bank (the Central           ISC   Industrial Sector Credit
Bank)                                 ISAC-2  Second Industrial Sector
BEPZA Bangladesh Export Processing                 Adjustment Credit
Zone Authority                        L/C   letter of credit
BTC   Bangladesh Tariff Commission          LCA   L/C authorization
CCIE  Chief Controller of Imports            LF    LCA and import permit fee
and Exports (MOC)                     MOC   Ministry of Commerce
CD    customs duty                          MOI   Ministry of Industry
CL    Control List (part of IPO)             NBR   National Board of Revenue
CY    calendar year                          NCB   nationalized commercial bank
DCA   Development Credit Agreement           NIP   New Industrial Policy (1982)
DEDO  Duty Exemption and Drawback            OED   Operations Evaluation
Office (in NBR)                              Department (WB)
DFI   Development Finance                    PSIC  Private Sector Investment
Institution                                  Credit
DS    Development Surcharge                  PRMAC Public Resource Management
ECGD/S  Export Credit Guarantee                    Adjustment Credit
Department (in SBC)/Scheme            QR    quantitative restriction (on
ED    excise duty                                  imports)
EDP   Export Development (Credit)            RD    Regulatory Duty
Project                               RIP   Revised Industrial Policy
EMU   Export Monitoring Unit (in                   (1986)
EPB)                                  SAR   staff appraisal report
EPB   Export Promotion Bureau                SBC   Sadharan Bima Corporation
(attached to MOC)                     SBW   special bonded warehouse
EPS   Effective Protection Studies           SEM   secondary (foreign) exchange
(unit in BTC)                               market
EPZ   Export Processing Zone                 SOE   statement of expense
FSAC  Financial Sector Adjustment            ST    sales tax
Credit                                TA-V/VI Fifth/Sixth Technical
FY    Fiscal Year                                  Assistance Project
GOB   Government of Bangladesh               TIP   Trade and Industry Policy
HS    Harmonized Commodity Descrip-                 (Studies)
tion and Coding System                UNDP  United Nations Development
IDA   International Development                    Programme
Association                           USAID United States Agency for
IPC   Import Program Credit                        International Development
Fiscal Year (FY) of Borrower
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 12, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Industrial Sector Credit (Credit 1816-BD)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Bangladesh -
Industrial Sector Credit (Credit 1816-BD)" prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with Part
II contributed by the Borrower.
The objective of the Industrial Sector Credit was to support industrial growth through
reforms in export policy, trade protection, investment approvals, public enterprise management and
industrial finance. In practice, progress was disappointing. The modest objectives for trade and
investment reform were not fully achieved on schedule, and the effort to strengthen DFIs was a
failure. One tranche release condition (relating to loan collection targets of DFIs) was waived, and
several follow-up actions were not implemented. Not surprisingly, the real response of the industrial
sector has been negligible. Overall, the performance of the operation is rated as unsatisfactory.
The PCR argues that political commitment to reform in Bangladesh improved with the
change of Government in 1991, and that the limited progress achieved under this operation laid the
groundwork for the preparation of the Second Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit. The audit by
OED will review the lasting contribution of the Industrial Sector Credit to the process of policy
reform and the extent to which the constraints on policy implementation have indeed been relaxed.
In the meantime, sustainability is rated as uncertain.
The PCR provides a balanced account of the accomplishments and shortcomings of the
operation. Part II basically agrees with the analysis, except for a few details related to the export
and import trade regime. The PCR was finalized more than three years after project completion;
this allowed assessment of follow-up actions after second tranche release and by the new
Government.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR CREDIT
(CREDIT 1816-BD)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface                                                                           ii
Evaluation Suary                                                                 ii
Part I      PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA' S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Idontity                                                      1
2.   Background                                                            1
3.   Program Objectives and Scope                                          2
4.   Program Design and Organization                                       3
s.   Program Implemontation                                                3
e     Export Policies and Administratlon                              4
e     Tariff and Import Regime                                        7
e     Investment Sanctioning                                         13
e     Public Induscrial Enterprlses                                  14
e     Financial Seccor Issues                                        15
i     Procurement and Disbursement                                   17
6.   Program Sustainability                                                18
7.   The Borrower and IDA                                                  19
*     IDA's Performance                                              19
Sorrower's Performance                                         20
*     Program Relactonship                                           20
8.   Consulting Servicoe                                                  21
9.   Program Documentation and Data                                       21
Part II     PROOJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
10.   General Commenta                                                      22
11.   Agency Commenta                                                       23
Part III    STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                               25
*     Related IDA Credics
*     Projecc Timecable
*     Credit Disbursemenc
*     .,issions
*     Follow-up Adjustment Operations
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR CREDIT
(CREDIT 1816-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first
Industrial Sector Credit to Bangladesh (Credit 1816-BD) in the amount of SDR
147.8 million (equivalent to US$190.0 million), approved on June 6, 1987. The
Credit was fully disbursed and closed on May 11, 1989, seven months ahead of
the original schedule. Together with a US$2.5 million adjustment to the
Credit amount agreed on March 29, 1989, total disbursements amounted to
US$198.4 million.
The PCR was jointly prepared by IDA (Parts I and III) and the
Borrower (Part II). It was commenced by the former Industry and Energy
Operations Division of the Asia Country Department I, and completed by the
Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division of the reorganized South
Asia Country Department I. The report and evaluation are based on the
President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence, internal IDA memoranda, and discussions with Government
authorities.
Since some actions in the reform program which the Credit
supported were scheduled to occur during three years after release of its
second tranche, a completion mission was not sent to Bangladesh until February
1991. Since then, finalization of the PCR has been delayed further to enable
the evaluation of post-Credit actions resumed by the new Government which took
office in March 1991.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR CREDIT
(CREDIT 1816-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
(i)         Prolect Objectives (para. 3.1)  The Credit was to support the
achievement of high rates of industrial growth to meet domestic demand, expand
exports, and create employment outside agriculture through reforms in five
areas: developing and improving administrative and financial arrangements for
export policy implementation; rationalizing the structure of protection;
liberalizing the investment approval system; improving the central monitoring
of public enterprise performance, while granting more autonomy and strength-
ening PE management; and improving the efficiency of industrial financing.
(ii)        Implementation Experience (Section 5)  Implementation of a Program
with ambitious compass was affected adversely by (a) insufficient Government
commitment to policy reforms in spite of their articulation by prior technical
assistance, (b) delayed TA for the implementation phase, (c) inadequate GOB
monitoring machinery to coordinate the reforms, and (d) failure to make
necessary bureaucratic adjustments and avoid frequent transfers of officials.
Only one formal waiver (on the loan collection target for NCBs) was invoked to
enable the second tranche to be released on schedule in June 1988, but several
other conditions were met only after discussion with IDA. The Program called
for further actions after second tranche, and some of these were not
implemented satisfactorily.
(iii)       Results (paras 5.2. 5.7. 5.14, 5.19-20, 5.23. 5.28)   The Program
improved some important aspects of the policy and institutional framework for
industrial development, but these improvements have yet to pay off in terms of
increased industrial investment. Bangladesh's manufacturing value added has
continued to stagnate, accounting for only 10 percent of GDP and 8 percent of
total employment in spite of the rapid growth in non-traditional exports that
has occurred in recent years. While it is too soon for sector aggregates to
be affected by the Program because of implementation delays in some of its
elements, the specific reforms which it initiated represent an important first
step in a process which should enable the industrial sector to grow with a
more efficient structure over the medium term.
(iv)        Sustainability (Section 6)   Most Program components were designed
to represent a gradual reform process and some were implemented even more
slowly than expected. This enabled the limited progress which was achieved to
be sustained -- if not continued -- after the Program in spite of the problems



iv
which beset political commitment, bureaucratic capability and some of the
institutional developments. The unsuccessful effort to strengthen the DFIs
stands out as a notable failure. Quite modest targets were set for the trade
and investment policy reforms, in recognition of the need for a gentle
approach to liberalization in the absence of widespread commitment to market
mechanisms. Although these were not fully achieved on schedule, some further
progress was made over the two years after the Credit was closed and the new
Government in 1991 indicated its intent to regain lost ground as soon as
political circumstances allowed. This has indeed occurred during 1992-93, in
preparation for the Second Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (ISAC-2).
(v)         Findings and Lessons Learned
(a)   In the absence of firm commitment to liberalization, the Program
faltered when IDA conditionality was no longer available to support its
implementation. While only one formal waiver was invoked to enable the second
tranche to be released on schedule, some other conditionality in the trade
policy area was met in letter rather than spirit and only after intensive IDA
staff consultations with the Borrower. Tranche release was approved, somewhat
reluctantly, as overall compliance was perceived to be generally satisfactory
-- but that perception rested partly on an expectation that progress would
continue in the third year. In the event, however, several of the essential
actions scheduled to occur after second tranche were not taken satisfactorily
as prescribed in the implementation program (DCA Schedule 4). This may have
been avoided if the follow-up Credit, ISAC-2, could have commenced in 1990
rather than in 1992.
(b)   Apart from the partial and delayed implementation of the
prescribed trade policy reforms, those which did occur had less impact than
they should have had on private and public investment/disinvestment decisions
due to the absence of clear articulation of the proposed reform process to the
public. This illustrates the need for firm Government commitment to -- and
announcement to investors of -- a longer term program of reform, with a
clearly specified target structure of protection. Within such a program, the
measures supported under any one IDA two or three year operation can occur as
interim steps.
(c)   Few of the institutions targetted for strengthening of staff or
the procedures intended for streamlining became fully operational until
further impetus was provided under other IDA operations well after the Credit
period. This applied to several of the export facilities, to the import
clearance procedures, and to the institutionalization of monitoring public
investments. The failures were attributable partly to the Government's
reluctance to accept adequate technical assistance, and partly to delays in
the delivery of the TA which it did accept. It was also due to inadequate
political support to overcome bureaucratic reluctance to internalize the
necessary administrative reforms.



v
(d)   The Program's approach of targetting two subsectors -- textile and
garment, and steel and engineering -- for early action in removing import
controls and lowering the maximum tariff to 125 percent by second tranche and
then to 85 percent was unsuccessful. (Controls still remain in FY93 and the
tariff on many products remained above 100 percent until this year.) This
failure was partly symptomatic of the authorities' general diffidence on trade
policy reform. It might have been avoided, however, if the planned
liberalization and tariff reduction measures had been accompanied by other
types of support for restructuring the subsectors concerned to help them
adjust to the new policy.
(e)   The export promotion goal of the Program was temporarily
undermined by appreciation of the real effective exchange rate which occurred
in FY89, just after second tranche release, in spite of the FY87-89 IMF
supported structural adjustment program. This demonstrates the need for
strong, comprehensive conditionality on macroeconomic management, which
occurred when the appreciation was reversed in the context of the following
IMF program.
(f)   In spite of serious IDA efforts to supervise the Credit, many of
the implementation failures were not clearly diagnosed in good time and, when
diagnosed by IDA, were not readily accepted by the Borrower. Much confusion
could have been avoided if (a) baselines had been specified more clearly, and
(b) the Government had put in place its own machinery to monitor progress in
the multi-faceted reform program which the Credit supported. The same problem
appears to have beset the subsequent Export Development Project, and there
still does not appear to be an adequate GOB mechanism to coordinate and
supervise technical and policy aspects of the implementation of ISAC-2.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR (ADJUSTMENT) CREDIT
(CREDIT 1816-BD)
PART I : PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Name               Industry Sector (Adjustment) Credit
Credit No.         1816-BD
RVP Unit           South Asia Region
Country           Bangladesh
Sector             Industry
2.    Background
2.1       Bangladesh is one of the world's poorest countries, with a high and
dense population, limited natural resources, and widespread poverty. Its per
capita income averaged only $150 at the time the Credit was approved (May
1987) and a high rate of population growth imposes a long term constraint on
development. Despite good progress in agriculture, the mainstay of the
economy, food production remained vulnerable to natural disasters and at that
time the country continued to require imports of about 10 percent of its
foodgrain consumption. Agriculture could not absorb the rapidly growing
labour force, making the growth of labour-intensive industrial exports an
important development objective. This transition faced serious difficulties
in the forms of a labour force lacking the necessary education, health and
nutrition; inadequate power, transport and other infrastructure; a
preponderance of inefficient public enterprises (PEs) -- mostly former private
firms taken over when the country became independent in the early 1970s;
highly restrictive trade and payments policies; and an unsound domestic
financial system. The macroeconomy was characterized by a low savings rate
and a large structural payments gap. Remittances accounted for half of
national savings, which in turn financed less than half of total investment.
Export earnings, largely from the vulnerable jute sector, covered only one
third of the import bill. The lack of domestic resources also constrained the
financing of key public investments as well as the efficient operation of
existing assets. These conditions persist.
2.2       Nevertheless, and in spite of repeated disruptions by natural
disasters, considerable economic progress had occurred in the several years
preceding approval of the Credit.  Policies designed to strengthen the
agricultural, industrial and export sectors had permitted growth to average
about 4 percent during the Second Five-year Plan period (FY81-85), including
an increase to 3.5 percent for foodgrains production in spite of adverse
weather conditions. Industrial output rebounded from its stagnation in the
early 1980s, mainly on the basis of export oriented, labour intensive
activities; non-traditional exports (especially garments) had grown by over 20
percent a year. In addition, the development of natural gas and other energy



2
supplies had fuelled relatively high growth in the power and fertilizer
sectors and significant substitution for petroleum product imports.
2.3       Official statistics indicate that industry accounts for only 10
percent of GDP and 8 percent of total employment, but these numbers belie both
its potential economic significance and the important role it already plays in
external trade; about a third of the sector's value added is in export
production and it generates over three-fourths of merchandise exports.
Initially almost entirely state-owned, the sector can now be characterized as
mixed economy with public enterprise (PE) investment reduced to about 40
percent by the time the Program commenced, mainly in large units producing
basic steel, cement, fertilizer, sugar, jute, textiles and pharmaceuticals.
These and large private units generate 58 percent of the sector's value added
but account for only 18 percent on the manufacturing labour force, while small
and cottage units are far more significant for employment.
2 .4      The development strategy for which the Government of Bangladesh
(GOB) sought donor support during FY87-88 emphasized human resource
development as an essential long term solution.  Seeking to sustain and build
on the recent industrial developments, however, the strategy also included the
extension of the process of industrial reform. A New Industrial Policy (NIP)
formulated in 1981 had reversed the commitment to social ownership and
control.  In 1986 the Revised Industrial Policy (RIP) signalled further steps
in deregulating private investment, and GOB declared its aim to continue with
trade liberalization, PE privatization, and non-traditional export promotion.
A related aim was to ensure international competitiveness and balance of
payments stability through flexible exchange rate management and prudent
borrowing. Also included in the strategy was an intent to strengthen the
financial system by rehabilitating the development finance institutions
(DFIs), taking stern action against defaulters, and gradually establishing a
more autonomous, accountable banking system.
3.   Program Objectives and Scope
3.1       The Credit was to support major industrial reforms being undertaken
by GOB with the objective of achieving high rates of industrial growth to meet
domestic demand, expand exports, and create employment outside agriculture.
The reforms were in five areas:
(a) developing and improving administrative and financial arrangements
for export Policy implementation.
(b) rationalizing the structure of protection;
(c) liberalizing the investment approval system;
(d)  improving the central monitoring of public enterprise performance,
while granting more autonomy and strengthening PE management; and
(e) improving the efficiency of industrial financing.



3
3 .2      The Credit of USS190 million equivalent was to comprise 7.9 percent
of gross capital inflows over the intended 1987-88 disbursement period,
financing about 4.8 percent of merchandise imports.
4.   Program Design and Organization
4.1       Policy reforms supported by the Credit were documented in the
policy matrix and in the Implementation Program which comprised Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The five reform areas involved
various GOB agencies under different organizational arrangements.
(a)  Actions on export policies and administration were designed to
generalize the processes and institutional mechanisms which had
been successful in promoting strong growth in garment exports.
This involved:
(l)   the Bangladesh Bank (BB) and the Ministry of Finance (MOP) for
flexible management of the exchange rate;
(ii)  the establishment of a Duty Exemption and Drawback Office
(DEDO) as a department within the National Board of Revenue
(NBR) to ensure duty- and tax-free status for imported inputs;
(iii) the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB) for monitoring garment
exports subject to international quota and, with the Chief
Controller of Imports and Exports (CCIE), for waiving import
restrictions on exporters' inputs; and
(iv)  the banking system for strengthening arrangements for the
export credit guarantee scheme, export financing, and the
inland back-to-back LIC system.
(b)  The tariff and import regime actions were designed to simplfy
procedures, replace direct controls with tariff protection,
moderate the latter and find alternative revenue, and free the
exchange rate. The agencies involved were NBR (Customs) on tariff
and tax rate adjustments and customs procedures, BB on the exchange
market, and CCIE for Import Policy Orders mandating quantitative
restrictions.
(c)  For investment sanctioninR, where the Program actions had been
taken in advance, no institution was required.
(d)  Public sector enterprises mainly involved the MOF's Autonomous
Bodies Wing (ABW), which was being assisted by a UNDP-financed
project to develop monitoring techniques.
(e)  For financial sector issues, the organizational units concerned
were BB and the financial institutions to be strengthened.
5.   Program Implementation
5.1       The Credit became effective on June 30, 1987, a month earlier than
planned; the second tranche was released on June 28, 1988; and the Credit was
fully disbursed and closed on May 11, 1989.  Except for shortfalls in



4
industrial term loan collections and perhaps also in luxury tariff reductions,
fulfillment of second tranche conditions was generally satisfactory, although
a waiver on the NCB loan collections (para. 5.26) was nee-dd to enable the
tranche to be released on schedule. Approval of the release was based on
overall satisfactory performance in implementing the Program; it might have
been withheld under the current practice of requiring compliance with each DCA
provision for release. Actions programed to occur after second tranche, i.e.
in FY89, suffered considerable delay but several were taken by the end of FY90
and more in the subsequent two years. In a few of the reform areas, progress
beyond the expectations of the Program has been made in the course of
preparing the Second Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (ISAC-2).1
5.2       Although the first ISC Program improved some important aspects of
the policy and institutional framework for industrial development, these
improvements have yet to pay off in terms of increased industrial investment.
Bangladesh's manufacturing value added has continued to stagnate, accounting
for only 10 percent of GDP and 8 percent of total employment in spite of the
rapid growth in non-traditional exports that has occurred in recent years.
While it is too soon for sector aggregates to be affected by the Program
because of implementation delays in some of its elements, the specific reforms
which it initiated represent an important first step in a process which should
enable the industrial sector to grow with a more efficient structure over the
medium term.
5.3       The following Subsections outline, for the five Program components:
specific actions that had been or were to be taken (intent), together with
details of their subsequent implementation before and since the second tranche
was released (performance), and IDA's assessment of their impact (results).
5.4       Export Policies and Administration.   Prior to the Program, GOB had
already made significant progress in the development of measures to encourage
export diversification, spurred by the decline of the international jute
market. These efforts had been rewarded with a breakthrough in readymade
garments, but the international quotas on these made further diversification
essential if the export growth momentum were to be maintained. Program
actions were designed to: improve the efficiency of administration and provide
institutional mechanisms needed to implement announced policies; generalize
product- or firm-specific measures to cover all direct or indirect exporters;
and improve collaboration between GOB and the export sector to meet external
challenges. The actions comprised:
(a) Continued management of the exchange rate to avoid a renewed
appreciation of the real effective exchange rate (REER).
(b) Provision of free trade status for exports with respect to imported
inputs through:
(i)   improved performance of the exPort processing zone by
increasing the autonomy and streamlining the procedures of the
ISAC-2 was appraised over the year ending march 1992, negotiated in Ohaka on June 8-11, 1992, anr
approved by IDA'S Board on October 27, 1992.



5
Export Processing Zone Authority (BEPZA), authorized prior to
the Credit;
(ii)  generalization of the procedure for giving exporters access to
inputs restricted or banned for other purposes, and, in the
meantime, provision for case-by-ca.. treatment by the CCIE on
EPB's recommendation in order to give effect to the waiver of
the "negative list" authorized in the FY87 Import and Export
Policy Orders; and
(iii)   more general availability of the bonded warehousint system
already used successfully for 100 percent exporters of
garments and specialized textiles; to be complemented by
(iv)  development of duty drawback facilities, with both of these to
be achieved through the conversion of DEDO into a permanent
department and initiation of its activities.
(c) Effective access to pre- and post-shipment working capital for
small or new export oriented producers (including indirect
exporters) through:
(i)   strengthening the export credit guarantee scheme (ECGS) by
converting it into a department with increased capital and
staff, (undertaken prior to the Credit), and preparing a plan
and initiating action to further strengthen the scheme;
(ii)  implementing a BB taskforce's recommendations on rationalizing
the structure of export financing by modernizing the
administration of pre-shipment financina, creating a foreign
exchange revolving fund to finance imports, and establishing
an automatic rediscount mechanism for export loans; and
(iii) initiating the implementation of the recommendations of an
inter-agency taskforce on making the inland back-to-back L/C
(letter of credit) system available to all indirect and direct
exporters.
(d)  Establishment and satisfactory operation of an export monitoring
unit (EMU) in the EPB to enable swift response to new international
quotas, complementing the revised internal allocation policy for
quota restrictions announced for FY87 and FY88.
5.5       These intentions were reflected in four provisions of the Program.
DEDO would be established as the principal agency responsible for all policy-
related and technical tasks pertaining to the duty-free import system, and
would be mandated to prepare guidelines and administrative orders, approve
input coefficients, and monitor its implementation. Measures would be taken
to rationalize the structure of export finance to give indirect exporters
access to pre-shipment finance and provide exporters with a choice of payment
method for imported inputs; and the ECGS would be modernized and strengthened
through the provision of necessary capital, staff and management.
Administrative mechanisms satisfactory to IDA would be implemented for
applying export incentives to indirect exporters. Finally, the EMU was to be
staffed and equipped to enable it to monitor the export of items subject to
external quota in a manner satisfactory to IDA.



6
5 .6      Much of the Program's action in this area occurred before the
Credit becama effective. The measures to be takan prior to second tranche
were duly implemented.  Some of the initiatives stalled in the following FY89,
however.  In particular:
(a) GOB could not prevent REER appreciation, thus eroding the improved
export environment, until a 4.75 percent devaluation occurred in
February 1990 with further action amounting to 6 percent over the
following year.
(b)  The bonded warehousing system remained unavailable to some types of
exporter for whom matching inputs with outputs is more complex than
for, say, garments.
(c) DEDO was established but with inadequate authority, premises,
budget or specialized staff, requiring technical assistance to be
provided under the the Export Development Project (EDP, Credit
2000-BD)2 and other needs which were specified as prior conditions
for the ISAC-2.
(d) Delays and technical difficulties beset further progress to follow
up the export finance and credit guarantee actions, requiring such
progresa to be facilitated by TA under other IDA auspices, notably
the EDP.
(e) The waiver of the "negative list" (renamed as the Control List
under the 1989-91 Import Policy Order (IPO)), and the back-to-back
L/C system for indirect export, though operational, remained
subject to administrative barriers for some new and potential
exporters until recently.
(f) The quota monitoring unit was established but a significant delay
occurred before it became operational.
5.7       The impact which the Program might have had on export performance
was limited by the problems encountered in operationalizing fully the
institutions and procedures that were to have been strengthened or
streamlined. However, some improvement in the policy environment facing
exporters did take place under the Program -- especially with respect to the
Chittagong EPZ and access to previously banned imported inputs; this
contributed to the continued growth that has occurred in non-traditional
export receipts over the past four years. In addition, the ISC component
together with the subsequent EDP helped raise the public profile of
Bangladesh's export potential and focus the attention of administrators --
including revenue officials -- on exporters' needs and particularly on the
issues that must be resolved to liberate export (and other industrial)
production from a constraining regulatory framework. At the same time it has
demonstrated that stronger political support for swift administrative action
I The EDP has itseLf been subject to iiilementation delays, but recent changes to the ruLes and better
publicity are faciLitating disbursement of the investment funds, and the technicaL assistwce sponsored by the
United states Agency for internationaL Development (USAID) is now mobilized.



7
and more timely and ambitious technical assistance, preferably in the context
of a comprehensive promotion strategy, would be required to ensure the
effective strengthening of the various institutions concerned.  It is now more
generally recognized that the authorities' limited resources must be
concentrated on the provision of necessary public services rather than
attempting to administer complex control mechanisms. This realization is
reflected already -- to the benefit of exporters and other efficient producers
-- in the liberalization of credit markets which is occurring under the FSC.
More generally, the stage was set for the further streamlining that GOB is now
undertaking with support from ISAC-2, which should facilitate greater growth
and diversification.
5.8       Tariff and Import Regime.  In the mid-1980s, the structure of
protection in Bangladesh was characterized by tariff anomalies and extensive
administrative mechanisms to allocate foreign exchange and restrict imports.
Most final production was protected by outright bans, restrictions or high
tariffs.  Intermediate products generally carried somewhat lower tariffs, but
the structure contained serious anomalies with many intermediate inputs
subject to ban or higher tariffs than the goods they helped produce.  Further
anomalies were created by numerous special exemptions, while effective
protection was distorted also by the addition of an import sales tax at
various rates and, more importantly, by many transactions bypassing official
channels. In addition, the tariff structure was complicated by a large number
of rate categories and an uncoordinated process for assigning rates in
response to ad hoc concerns. The practice of granting concessions contrasted
sharply with GOB's perception of the tariff as a revenue instruument,
providing more than 55 percent of tax revenue in a situation of serious
resource shortage.  The medium term strategy for rationalizing the regime,
that the Credit was intended to support, comprised:
(a) reducing tariff variation by reducing the number of rates,
allocating products to them more consistently, and reducing the
range of effective protection among different products;
(b) phasing out quantitative restrictions and streamlining import
procedures; and
(c) accompanying tariff rationalization by tax reforms to generate
alternative revenue sources.
A start had been made as the Credit was being prepared in FY86 to take action
on these three fronts; further steps were included in the Program; and more
extensive rationalization was envisaged for support under a second and
possibly third sector adjustment credit(s).
5.9       On the tariff structure, GOB had recategorized 7000 products into
11 (rather than 24) customs duty (CD) rate categories with the intent of
rating most raw materials between zero and 20 percent, intermediates at 50
percent, consumption goods at 100 percent, and luxuries in a range of 150
percent (e.g. washing machines) to 400 percent (cigarettes).  "Luxuries" were
defined broadly, hcwever, accounting for about one-sixth of all items in the



8
tariff code. GOB had also, early in FY87, recategorized the sales tax (ST) on
imports into three rates (zero, 10 percent and 20 percent) and begun shifting
products to the zero category.  Meanwhile, it had agreed in principle to
liberalize tariffs in the two largest manufacturing subsectors, textiles and
steel/engineering, and started adjusting them in FY86 and FY87. These
initiatives provided the basis for a three-year program intended to include
the following FY88-90 actions, which were reflected in Schedule 4 of the DCA:
(a) The tariff rate structure would be revised by the beginning of
FY89. Apart from luxury goods noted as exceptions in (b) below and
zero-rated items, it would comprise seven CD rates (2.5, 5, 10, 20,
50, 75 and 100 percent, with maxima of 20 percent on raw materials,
75 percent on intermediates and 100 percent on final products), and
one non-zero ST rate (20 percent). This was agreed prior to the
Credit and the details were included as a second tranche condition
in the DCA implementation program.3 No provision was made for
removing the other import levies: development surcharge (DS, 8
percent), regulatory duty (RD), import permit or L/C authorization
fee (LF, 2.5 percent), and advance income tax (AIT, 2.5 percent).
(b) Effective protection for domestic production of most luxury goods
would be lowered by reducing most CD rates above 150 percent to
that rate in FY88 (a second tranche condition) and then to l00
percent in FY89. The only exceptions would be five 200 percent
groups (tobacco products, beverage concentrate, furs & fur apparel,
precious & semi-precious stones, and perfumes and cosmetics) and
two 300 percent groups (spirits and luxury motor cars).
(c) For the textiles and steel/en,tineeringc subsectors, nominal
protection provided collectively by CD, ST, development surcharge
(DS) and import license fee (LF) was to be reduced over three
years. The President's Report's policy matrix specified, as a
second tranche condition, that in FY88 the maximum combined
CD/ST/DS/LF rate would be 125 percent with corresponding reductions
for raw materials and intermediates. During FY89 and FY90,
according to the DCA, the maximum rate for final goods in these
subsectors would be further reduced to 85 percent, with the proviso
that any increase by 5 percent or more in domestic excises could be
reflected in tariff adjustments.4
5.10       With respect to quantitative restrictions (QRs) and foreign
exchange allocation, the Program had three design themes: (a) moving
transactions from the controlled official foreign exchange market to the freer
secondary market; (b) making scheduled QRs transparent and monitorable by
a.sing a "negative" rather than "positive" list of freely importable products;
' The rates, atthough not the raw materials and intermediates Limits, were given also in the President's
Report (No. P-4558-BD).
in addition, it was envisaged that further tariff rationalization would be carried out in other
suosectors, based on effective protection analysis that was then being financed by the Fourth Technicai
Assistance Credit (Cr. 1124-SO). Such reform was intended to be supported by future sector credits, however.



9
and (c) reducing such QRs over time so that protection would be provided by
tariffs.  GOB had taken strong action in all three areas before the Credit was
approved. The shares of exports and imports utilizing the secondary market
had increased in FY86 and were expected to reach 71 and 42 percent
respectively in FY87 (compared with 27 and 20 percent two years before). The
negative list had been introduced in FY86.  It was supplemented, however, by
restrictions on three other groups of items importable only by: (a) exporters
and exchange-earning hotels; (b) registered industrial enterprises up to
values specified in their passbooks; and (c) importers with prior permission
(e.g. seeds, insecticides, explosive ingredients and pharmaceuticals). Both
the negative list and the other restrictions had been liberalized in FY87, the
former by deletion of 68 (18 percent) of its four-digit import trade control
(ITC) categories and the latter by removal of 140 more narrowly defined items.
Actions to be taken under the Credit to continue such liberalization were:
(a)  The negative import list would be reduced by about 20 percent of
its remaining 359 four-digit categories each year, beginning in
FY88 as a second tranche condition, and sufficient priority would
be given to the textiles and steel and engineering subsectors'
items that these would be eliminated at the beginning of FY90.
(b)  The restricted list for industrial imports would be phased out in
three approximately equal annual steps (beginning in FY88 before
second tranche) to enable commercial import of all items by FY90.
(c)  Pursuant to a FY87 announcement, all non-GOB, non-aid, non-barter
imports would utilize the secondary market (leaving imported food-
grains, fertilizer and equipment for officially sponsored projects,
and exported raw jute, tea and leather, at the official rate).
(d)  For simplfying import and customs clearance procedures, GOB and IDA
would agree by September 1987 on an action program to adopt
proposals that were already specified.
5.11      Finally, to help identify alternative revenue sources, GOB was
collaborating on studies with IDA and the IMP with a view to reducing
dependence on trade taxes.  It was expected that a comprehensive reform
program would be agreed on. Implementation would begin in FY88, so that the
estimated 1 percent revenue loss for the ISC first-year tariff reductions
would be offset.  Continued reform would offset the second- and third-year
cuts (including 2.5 percent of revenue for the textiles and steel and
engineering adjustments, without allowing for gains due to QR removal), as
well as the further tariff rationalization intended to occur under a possible
ISAC-2 (since approved).
5.12      Most of the Program schedule for QR removal, tariff rate
adjustment, and use of the secondary foreign exchange market was implemented,
albeit with (i) delays of about a year on some actions; (ii) failure to accord
priority in QRs removal or to fully restructure total tariff protection
affecting the textiles and steel/engineering subsectors; and (iii) failure to
eliminate the restrictions on industrial imports. Specific performance can be
summarized as follows:



10
(a) The secondary foreign exchange market expansion occurred as
planned, although, as noted above, the official rate was allowed to
appreciate for a while.
(b) Few changes in "luxury" tariffs above 100 percent were announced in
the FY88 Budget, and the 150 percent ceiling was waived as a second
tranche release condition against GOB's undertaking that its FY89
Budget would authorize the 100 percent ceiling to meet the DCA
target for that year. Further delays occurred, however, with the
reduction to the 150 percent limit being authorized at the end of
FY88, and the 100 percent limit being attained for some items 15
months later (as an appraisal condition for ISAC-2). Even then the
list of exceptions was slightly different and longer than had been
envisaged in the Program, although the FY93 Budget has now reduced
them to four: cars with engines above 1300cc, cigarette paper,
firearms, and alcoholic beverages.
(c) For the tariffs affecting textiles and steel/engineering, the FY88
Budget authorized CD rate changes which met or improved upon the
first-year target of a 125 percent ceiling for the majority of
affected imports. Although some of these even came close to
consistency with the third-year target of a 0-85 percent range if
only CD were counted, the progress was not maintained and total
nominal protection for many items remained well above that range
until CD for most of them was reduced to 75 percent in FY93.
(d) The process of simplifying the tariff rate structure was advanced
to a limited extent. The number of non-zero, non-concessionary,
non-luxury CD rates was reduced by FY91 to seven (2.5, 5, 10, 20,
30, 50 and 100 percent) with relatively few exceptional rates,5 and
the number of ST rates was reduced to one (20 percent) but with
numerous exceptions (at 10 percent). However, the total tariff
structure remained more complex through (i) the addition of DS and
LF, (ii) numerous exemptions from or reductions in these levies, CD
and/or ST for selected importers and/or narrowly defined products,
(iii) the use of "tariff values" to yield specific rather than ad
valorem rates of CD for some items, and (iv) the imposition of RD
on a few others.
(e) The negative import list is now expected to be phased out over
seven rather than five years. The FY88 reduction covered 79 ITC
headings (22 percent) in order to meet the first-year target and
enable second tranche release, leaving 280 headings on the list.6
The IPO 1988-89 reduced the list by about 103 headings (29
percent), although its reclassification through the introduction of
the Harmonized System (HS) of tariff coding then yielded 272 HS
headings for FY89.
The 5l rate was retained for a few products, white so retaining 150X are not strictly Luxury products.
Only a few headings were removed from the list by the IPO 1987-88 itself, and 7 codes were added.
However, sufficient further deletions occurred through an interim IPO issued in may 1988.



11
(f) With respect to intended removal of the 69 ITC headings comprising
goods restricted to industrial importers over three years, the
shortfall from the FY88 target was small so the tranche release
condition was deemed to have been substantially met. Including
non-industrial goods as well, deletions and additions caused a net
reduction of 50 headings (17 percent) that year.7 In the IPO 1988-
89 the resulting list of 239 ITC headings was reduced by 73 (25
percent), with the remainder reclassified as 217 HS headings.
(8) A combined Control List published in the IPO 1989-91 contained a
total of 320 HS headings, representing an apparent FY90 reduction
of 111 after allowing for duplications in the the FY89 negative and
restricted lists. Progress was continued when the IPO was revised
for FY91 with the omission of 70 more codes (as an appraisal
condition for ISAC-2).8 The bans that vere removed numbered 81
headings in FY90 and 46 headings in FY91, leaving 153 in place. As
this balance represented about 27 percent of the original baseline
after allowing for the code reclassification, substantial progress
towards the fourth year target occurred for the negative list.
Indeed, it was over-achieved if allowance is made for about 54
items that could remain banned or restricted indefinitely on such
non-tradew grounds as religion, safety and health. The following
IPO 1991-93, together with recent rovisions to it, have seen 159
more bans or restrictions removed from the CL, leaving fewer than
40 headings remaining for removal in FY94.
(h) Unfortunately, the items deleted from the negative and restricted
list did not adequately reflect the intended removal of ORs on
textiles and steelleniineerint  imports.  In contrast to the
Program goal of their elimination at the beginning of FY90, more
than 50Z of textile items and about 101 of metal items were still
banned or restricted through the following year. Even now, 24
textile headings remain to be removed early in FY94 under ISAC-2.
(i) Although an action timetable was discussed to meot the tranche
release condition, little progress occurred during the Credit
period in streamlining import and customs clearance procedures.
Since then, however, radical improv _ nts have been initiated and
are to be fully implemented during FY93 (under the auspices of the
proposed ISAC-2). These include the computerization of ravenue
collections (pending the introduction of ASYCUDA with assistance
from UNDP/UNCTAD), and the appointment of com_rcial inspection
agents whose functions may include offshore asessment by FY94.
(j)  Reform of the indirect tax system, Inter &.Ia to facilitate tariff
rationalization by finding alternative revenue sources, w a worked
Only 12 industrial goods headings (17 percent) were raem d initially in the IPO 1967-88, but a further
nine (13 percetnt) were deleted in the interim IPO.
s The resulting 250 headings covered ban or restrictions on 2,216 Ite_ at the 10-digit level -- alost
21X of their total.



12
out during the Credit period, and legislated by the Value Added Tax
Act 1991, with implementation at the beginning of FY92. The
coverage of VAT and the related Supplementary Excise Duty (SED) is
being broadened during FY93-94, and revenue should be boosted
further in FY94 by the above-mentioned import inspection service,
notably its assessment function and the associated electronic
reconciliation of assessments and collections.
5.13      While the above review shows that some Program targets might not
have been achieved on schedule, it indicates also the desire of the new
Government to authorize further major changes in the coverage of QRs, the
tariff regime, and collection procedures. Actions which have occurred at the
beginning of FY92 and FY93, or are expected in FY94 under the proposed second
ISAC, make up most of the ground lost in the FY88-90 Credit period of ISC and
go well beyond that Program's objectives in this area.
5.14      Due to the delays which occurred in implementing the first-stage
tariff reform and QR elimination program that the Program was intended to
comprise, these policy changes have not been in place long enough to be
reflected in the structure or performance of industrial and other economic
activities. QRs have been removed from some export and other industrial
inputs only recently (although they were mainly "restrictions" which favoured
industrial importers, rather than bans), while nominal protection provided by
the tariff structure still remains highly differentiated (although providing
substantial effective protection for selected existing industries catering to
the domestic market).
5.15      As for other components of the Program, the most important result
of its tariff and import regime changes has been to commence a process which
must continue in order to have the desired effect of efficiency and growth of
the industry sector. More in-depth research is required to determine what
effect the changes in effective assistance to industry caused by the trade
policy reforms -- or the expectation thereof -- already may have had on
investment decisions that would affect the future structure and performance of
the sector.9 It is likely, however, in the absence of a more clearly
articulated trade policy strategy (the ISC-supported Program not having been
detailed in the 1986 RIP), that most investors have been influenced only
marginally by the reforms actually implemented. Instead, apart from export-
oriented garment producers with bond facilities, investors have continued to
rely on political favor yielding the tailor-made protection which was not
precluded by the implementation of the first-stage reforms. As far as current
and forthcoming investment decision making is concerned, the supply response
will depend rather on the private sector's (and comercialized PEs')
expectation of the outcome of the more definitive trade policy reforms now
being undertaken in the second stage, FY93-FY94, with the support of ISAC-2.
Since these reforms are being introduced while the Bangladesh economy remains
in recession, their impact on investment will depend also on necessary
concomitant measures to relax fiscal, monetary and exchange policies and to
attract foreign equity investment.
Staff sector work is currently underway to address this question, along with the related issue of e.
regulations and policies may still constrain responses to the trade policy changes that have occurred.



13
5.16      Investment Sanctioning.  Since Independence, private investment in
Bangladesh had been subject to close public scrutiny, both by limiting the
activities in which it could occur and by requiring official sanctioning for
individual projects. The latter process had been decentralized to many
agencies, including banks and other financial institutions, prior to the
Credit, but there were limits on the size of investment that could be approved
by these agencies.  These limits were not tackled fully, as that type of
liberalization was assumed to require improvements in lending institutions'
appraisal capabilities and elimination of distortions in the incentives
framework.  Instead the Program's design in this area emphasized extending the
range of "free" activities in which private investors could use their own
funds to import machinery through the secondary foreign exchange market.
5.17      The liberalization of the investment regime had been reflected in
the RIP which:
(a) gave the priority investment schedule indicative rather than
regulatory status in order to deter bankers from relying on it at
the expense of meaningful project appraisal;
(b) introduced shorter lists of activities in which investment would be
restricted to the public sector ("reserved" industries) or require
prior permission ("discouraged" industries), with all other
activities being "free" for private investment (although subject to
the following other controls);
(c) raised from 20 to 50 percent the proportion of imported inputs that
would trigger another requirement for investment approval; and
(d) increased the sanctioning limits (without need for GOB approval) to
US$1 million for all commercial banks and $2 million for
development finance institutions (DFIs).
These elements of the Program having been implemented, no second tranche
release conditions or further actions were specified. They were intended,
however, to pressage further liberalization which would be coordinated with
other Program components: the elimination of distortions in the protection
regime (Section 6) and improvements in DFI's appraisal capability (Section 9).
5.18      The further liberalization commenced in 1990, when increased limits
for DFI and NCB managements' decision making gave the institutions autonomy
from BOI oversight with respect to private sector projects worth up to Tk 100
million and Tk 60 million respectively, having no more than 49 percent foreign
equity, and being outside the discouraged list. Even more freedom occurred
when domestic entrepreneurs used their own funds and/or borrowed from private
banks. Larger domestic and all foreign-majority projects financed by DFIs and
NCBs remained subject to BOI procedures, however.More progress has occurred
since then. The new Government's Industrg Pollcy 1991 raised the oversight
threshhold to Tk 300 million for both DFIs and NCBs.  The IP91 also promised
equal treatment for foreign investment, and discontinued the priority
investment schedule and the "discouraged list". The latter had grown since
its introduction in 1986 and had been treated by the BOI as a prohibited list



14
to prevent aeveral proposed investments from occurring.  The most recent steps
in these areas have been even more radical, comprising the Government's
October 1992 decision to revise the IP91 to: (a) shorten the list of
industries reserved for public investment to railways, airways, defence
equipment, nuclear energy and security printing; and (b) remove all investment
approval requirements, including the DFI/NCB sanctioning limits as well as the
roles of "sponsoring agencies" other then BOI/BEPZA/BSIC's incentives and
assistance functions.
5.19      Since many controls remained in place, private investment did not
surge following the Credit period, and the further liberalization described
above has been too recent to have promoted a significant investment response
so far, especially in view of the political instability in 1990-91 and the
continuing recessionary conditions. As conditions improve, however, private
enterprise must be encouraged by the present liberal regime.
5.20      Public Industrial Enterprises.  Although GOB had nationalized most
large-scale industrial enterprises in 1972, placing them in groups under
sector corporations which were supervised in turn by various Ministries, the
decade preceding the Credit witnessed efforts to encourage private enterprise
to take the lead in industrial development while reducing the public role
through privatization and improving the public enterprises' performance in the
meantime. The 1981 NIP and 1986 RIP had presented a clear strategy for
achieving these objectives, and GOB had undertaken several policy measures and
impressive divestiture actions prior to the Credit. Altogether about 650
firms had been transferred to the private sector; budgetary allocations to PEs
had been mainly for completion, rehabilitiation or modernization of existing
units, and kept within 20 percent of Annual Development Program totals; and
the list of activities reserved for new public investment had been reduced to
seven, with gas-based fertilizer the only industry where such investment had
occurred. These successes reduced the public share of industrial fixed assets
from 90 percent in 1972 to about 40 percent by 1986. Efforts to increase the
efficiency of PEs had been made too, but with less success.
5.21      Accordingly, the Program design was focussed on supporting the
ongoing restructuring and performance improvement programs.  Its implement-
ation program under the DCA required the strengthening of the Autonomous
Bodies Wing (ABW) of the Ministry of Finance to (a) oversee a contractual
system of performance indicators for selected PEs and a program for monitoring
and evaluating them, and (b) coordinate the setting of perfomance targets by
various Ministries or agencies. The ABW was to be strengthened satisfactorily
by September 1987; the indicators were to be applied to one PE on a pilot
basis during FY87; and the monitoring and evaluation program was to be
extended to three other PEs during FY88.  It was envisaged that its further
extension to all industrial PEs could be supported by a future IDA operation.
5.22      In order to systematically monitor the performance of public
enterprises, the Government has been developing a management inform-ation
system and expanding performance evaluation for autonomous and semi-autonomous
PEs with UNDP assistance. Progress by 1991 was as follows:



15
(a) The monitoring cell within the Autonomous Bodies Wing of the
Ministry of Finance developed a System for Autonomous Bodies
Reporting and Evaluation (SABRE) which generates information on PEs
that is used for economic planning, performance evaluation,
budgeting and financial control purposes. The cell collects the
information generated by SABRE in standardized input formats and
loads them into a computerized database. With the FY92 budgets of
the remaining 13 sector corporations being prepared under SABRE,
all 38 of them are now included in the system.
(b) The cell has also developed a target-setting and evaluation system
based on performance contracts with the enterprises. This
(i)   identifies major areas of performance improvement,
(ii)  assigns weights based on priorities,
(iii) sets appropriate targets and monitors their achievement, and
(iv)  evaluates performance through a composite index.
Although the system plans to link bonuses with the evaluation index
it has not yet received the GOB approval to do so. Moreover, the
PEs have yet to be given full autonomy to make decisions in order
to help realize their contracts. The first performance contract
was given to a PE in FY87 and four more enterprises were included
the following year. The number rose to 15 in FY91 and 25 in FY92.
Due to delays in recruiting staff for the ABW, the Government had to rely on
the staff of the UNDP-assisted project to undertake most of the above work. A
proposal to recruit additional professional staff failed to receive President-
ial approval in FY88, and project personnel continued on contract.
5.23      The performance contracts established in the Program may have
helped improve the efficiency of a few units somewhat, and has value as a
process to be replicated. It is labor intensive, however, does not replace
the formal budgetting systems, and probably could not be extended to a
significant proportion of PEs. With bonus payments not linked to the
evaluation index, the contracts are currently seen as an additional paperwork
exercise rather than a spur to better performance. This is suggested by the
values of some key indicators for the five enterprises that have used them
more than two years: while production increased in some cases, sales and
profits did not go up correspondingly, and in other cases sales went up but
profits went down. It is evident that the system will not improve the
financial and economic condition of the PEs unless: (a) performance contracts
are linked to a proper incentive system, and focus adequately on the key
issues and problems of the enterprises, and (b) the PE managements have
autonomy to make decisions to realize the goals set. Pendilg such autonomy,
the Ministry concerned with each PE should at least review the contract to
ensure that the key problems are addressed in it. Regarding the ABW staffing,
it may now be appropriate for at least some of these experienced personnel to
be absorbed as regular MOP staff to continue the PE monitoring tasks.
5.24      Financial Sector Issues.  By the mid-1980s, the country's banking
system sufferred from both structural problems involving its legal framework,
autonomy, management and supervision, and a short-term credit disciplinary



16
crisis with unacceptably low recovery rates.  This applied especially for the
two DFIs, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) and Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangatha
(BSRS), which were the main sources of term finance for industry, but also to
the three nationalized commercial banks (NCBs) which were participating in
IDA-financed small industries operations. The poor collections performance
had a number of causes, including weak appraisal capacity, credit targetting,
lack of flexibility to restructure loans, large real devaluations, disputes
over the portfolios of denationalized PEs, and a weak legal framework. An
action program had been instituted since 1984 to address these problems, but
little progress was achieved through FY86. Accordingly, a new action program
was devised with monthly cash collection targets; if these were met, the DFIs'
collection ratio would rise from 9 percent in FY86 through 13 percent in FY87
to 18 percent (or 50 percent of new amounts coming due) in FY88, while that of
the NCBs would rise from 19 through 33 to 46 percent.
5.25      The Program activities in this area were designed to increase the
recovery rates of the five institutions, as well as increasing the operational
autonomy of the DFIs and strengthening them institutionally and financially:
(a) In pursuit of the recovery rate goal, the DCA required two types of
effort to enable second tranche release. GOB would:
(i) cause and take all necessary measures to enable the institut-
ions to meet FY87 and FY88 collection targets agreed with IDA,
i.e. Tk 1370 million by DFIs and Tk 136 million by NCBs; and
(ii) eliminate all PE arrears to BSRS (comprising 18 percent of its
total arrears) by the end of FY88.
(b) To otherwise improve the BSB and BSRS, the Government would:
(i)   cause them to increase provisions for bad and doubtful debt in
their FY87 financial statements, reschedule individual loans
as appropriate, and selectively write off loans with no
realistic prospects of being serviced;
(ii) recapitalize them with a view to maintaining each's
debt/equity ratio at no more than 3 to 1; and
(iii) provide additional technical assistance to strengthen their
appraisal, loan collection and supervision, and portfolio
rehabilitation functions, and accounting and management
systems, with satisfactory terms of reference and timeframe.
While these steps were being taken, a broader, longer term program of
financial sector reforms would be in preparation for future IDA support.
5.26      During 1987 the Government took additional measures to restore
credit discipline and enable financial institutions to improve their recovery
of industrial term loans, although the collection efforts were adversely
affected by Bangladesh's worst floods in 40 years and by political
disturbances in late 1987. The two DFIs collected 91 percent of the agreed
target, representing a 34 percent improvement over the corresponding
collection performance in 1986. The three NCBs, which had very small
portfolios of industrial term loans, collected a total of Tk. 64 million, or
only 47 percent of the agreed target, representing a 143 percent increase over
the corresponding collection performance in 1986. This shortfall was deemed



17
insignificant for the purpose of second tranche release. However, both DPI
and NCB collections dropped back towards their earlier levels following
tranche release. The Government indicated to IDA its plans to continue its
efforts to restore credit discipline, and a longer-term program of sector
reforms and technical help to NCBs was developed with IDA's assistance. The
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC, Credit No. 2152-BD) became effective
in FY91, and preparation of a second credit to support further adjustment has
begun. GOB enacted a Loan Courts Law and set up 19 such special courts, which
have improved significantly the institutions' ability to impose credit
discipline.
5.27      The DFIs increased provisions for bad and doubtful debts in their
FY87 financial statements and carried out debt reschedulings and write-offs in
appropriate cases. The Government completed the recapitalization of the two
DFIs to maintain their debt/equity within the agreed 3 to 1 ratio. In the
first half of 1988, GOB took action to reduce the public enterprise (PE)
arrears to the BSRS by about one-half, and discussions were held among
responsible Ministries and PEs with the intent of eliminating the remaining
arrears in FY89.  This did not occur.  In order to strengthen the DPIs, the
Government during 1987 finalized a technical assistance program to be executed
by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and financed by UNDP. Consultants were
selected and the program was initiated in early FY89, shortly after second
tranche release. Unfortunately, the DFIs continued to lose money, and
reverted to inadequate accounting policies which understate bad debts.
5.28      The specific institutional results of this Program component that
can be observed so far are disappointing, although its intensive emphasis on
collections appears to have had a salutary effect on general perceptions about
the need to repay loans -- an important factor in Bangladesh. While the use
of monthly collection targets for the DPIs did have a modest positive effect
on their balance sheets in the short term, the effort did not yield a
significant improvement in these two institutions' longer term capability to
raise collection levels.  Similarly, the recapitalization was not accompanied
by the other actions necessary to stem their continuing decapitalization.  In
any case, failure to eliminate all PE arrears exacer-bated an already serious
situation. Moreover, since acceptable provisioning for bad debts was not
sustained, BSB's and BSRS's reported capital soon becme once again
overstated. The technical assistance may have improved their accounting and
management operations, but it was undoubtedly been less influential than if it
could have coincided with the "leverage" available from IDA or ADB credit
lines. Thus the DFIs remain in a parlous condition, making little
contribution to industrial development, in spite of the Program. The results
for the NCBs were somewhat happier, largely because it was followed quickly by
more comprehensive support for their improvement under the FSAC.
5.29      Procurement and Disbursement.  As an adjustment credit, the ISC
proceeds were utilized by Bangladesh Bank to fund general imports on a
reimbursement basis, with the use of a Special Account to facilitate initial
payments. No problems were experienced, although a rather larger share than
expected was attributed to PE import expenditures.



18
6.   Program Sustainabilitt
6.1       In spite of some institutional failures, most Program components
were designed and implemented in such ways that where progress were achieved
in the reform process it could be sustained -- with the important provisos of
the needs for continued political comitment and improved bureaucratic
capability. The unsuccessful effort to strengthen the DFIs stands out as a
notable exception. Quite modest targets were set for the trade and investment
policy reforms, in recognition of the need to a gradualist approach to
liberalization in the absence of widespread commitment to market mechanisms.
Although even these were not achieved on schedule, further progress was made
over the two years after the Credit was closed, and the now Government in 1991
indicated its intent to regain lost ground as soon as political circumstances
permitted. This has indeed occurred during 1992-93, in preparation for the
ISAC-2 Program.
6.2       Some of the particular reforms may prove more sustainable than
others, but they depend heavily on recent and further fresh initiatives, viz:
(a) Those improvements that did get implemented in exPort Dolicies and
administration have been maintained and indeed enhanced during
FY90-91, with further more radical progress occurring under ISAC-2.
(b)  Similarly, the rather modest tariff and import retime improvements
provided a necessary basis for compressing the tariff to an
expected 10-50 percent range (with limited exceptions) and
completing the elimination of QRs during FY92-94. Although the
FY91 and FY92 Budgets announced some tariff increases which were
inconsistent with the Program, these have been remedied in FY93 and
further progress is expected in the next stage of the reform
process under ISAC-2, which also emphasizes institutional
strengthening needed for sustainability.
(c) The progress made on liberalizing investment sanctioning has been
continued, culminating recently in abolition of intervention.
(d) With respect to public industrial enterprises, the perfomance
contract and management information systems require further
improvement in both content and institutionalization before they
will be sufficiently effective to be sustained. Whether the cost
of such improvements would be justified in view of the Government's
objective of privatizing many of the PEs remains unclear.
(e) The limited progress made on financial sector issues, at least in
the case of the DFIs which received most of this component's
attention, could not be sustained because of their doubtful
viability. On the other hand, as noted above, the initiative
appears to have established an expectation among industrialists
that loans from public institutions should be repaid.
6 3       The sustainability of the reform process has been assisted by the
continuing support provided by the IMF and IDA in the forms of the Fund's



19
Stuctural Adjustment Facility (FY87-89), its Enhanced SAY (FY91-93), ISC
itself, the above-mentioned FSAC, a FY92 Public Resource Management Adjustment
Credit (PRMAC), and the FY93 ISAC-2. Thesa operations have been closely
coordinated through a series of Policy Framework Papers, with elements of the
IDA supported programs serving to implement reforms that comprise performance
benchmarks for the Fund facilities. The process could be strengthened,
however, to encourage further GOB efforts to sustain progress on structural
reform without sacrificing stabilization.  Particular issues that may require
more intensive tripartite collaboration to reduce dependence on instruments
which inhibit structural change include exchange rate policy and the develop-
ment of trade neutral revenue sources; PRMAC and ISAC-2 address these.
6.4       The strengthening of GOB's commitment to the trade and finance
reform process which the Credit helped initiate has been due partly to its
increasing recognition that a tightly controlled and overprotected private
sector cannot perform well as the key engine of industrial development. This
perception has been deepened with the election in February 1991 of a
democratic Government which favours private sector development and hopes to
reduce public corruption.  So far it has only partly articulated a commitment
to the depth and pace of trade liberalization which the previous administrat-
ion appeared to recognize as necessary. On the other hand, it has initiated
some bold practical steps in the right directions. Their sustainability --
and thus that of the earlier ISC Program -- will depend critically on whether
GOB can muster and maintain political support and galvanize the bureaucracy
for the further progress necessary to create a liberal trading environment
supported by appropriate governance.
7.   The Borrower and IDA
7.1       IDA Performance.  The Credit followed an extensive program of Trade
and Industry Policy (TIP) studies which GOB undertook with IDA's financial and
intellectual support to provide a solid foundation for the comprehensive
reforms that were required to redirect the economy. The substantive output of
the program was lavish, with more than 100 studies produced by 1987. Many of
these were thorough and helped IDA, as well as GOB, understand the nature and
dimensions of the problems with the policy regime. Various industrial
subsectors were studied, protection estimates made, procedures and regulations
analyzed, and recommendations offered for policy reform. Among the
recommendations were detailed proposals for (a) simplifying, compressing and
restructuring the import regime to replace QRs by tariffs at rates which would
keep EP within a 30-100 percent range, and (b) using exchange rate policy as
far as possible, supplemented by subsidy and procurement policies, to remove
the bias against exports in the protection regime. Proposals were made also
for (c) eliminating investment controls and biases in lending towards capital
intensive, large scale activities, (d) tax reform to reduce reliance on trade
taxes and distinguish between revenue and protection concerns, and (e) phasing
out discriminatory pricing and making subsidies explicit for public
enterprises. Although the reforms implemented under the ISC Program fell far
short of the recommendations, these did make an important contribution to the
progress that occurred, especially in the design of the Program and that of
the subsequent EDP.



20
7.2       As to the Program itself, IDA devoted considerable etaff resources
to monitoring its implementation. For the import liberalization component,
intensive supervision was necessitated partly by a minimalist approach to
meeting some of the targets on the part of the Borrower and partly by the
latter's weak institutional arrangements for analyzing the progress that did
occur. This problem was compounded by the difficulties for monitoring
progress posed by the complex documentation of Bangladesh's trade policy
regime and the changes in classification and presentation that occurred
concurrently with the Program's substantive reductions in QRs and tariff
rates. Even now it is difficult to chart the course of the FY87-90 revisions
precisely, underscoring the importance of establishing clear and agreed
baselines for monitoring phased reforms.
7.3       Borrower's Performance.  The above-mentioned TIP studies program
should have provided the basis for good performance by GOB in implementing the
trade and investment components of the Program supported by the Credit. It
was overseen by a large, high-level Govern ent committee, coordinated by a
management unit in the Planning Commission and comprised work in various
agencies on project planning and identification, the EP structure, industrial
investment promotion, industrial statistics, investment incentives, and export
potential. The aims were to (a) analyze the policy structure comprehensively
in these areas, (b) make concrete recommendations on reforms, and (c)
internalize the policy analysis process through appropriate institution
building. Unfortunately for the subsequent Program, TIP's success in the
third respect was limited, with insufficient commitment by both policy makers
and officials who required training precluding full advantage being taken of
the international expertise assembled. in Dhaka for the work during 1983-86.
This contributed to both the minimalist approach to implementation and GOB's
poor capability for monitoring it, noted above, so that the Borrower's
technical performance appeared to weaken rather than strengthen during the
course of the Program. Organizational problems also beset the export, PE and
financial components of the Program, with GOB relying to an excessive extent
on technical assistance rather than developing the capability within the
bureaucracy that is needed to manage and sustain such structural reforms.
7.4       These institutional and personnel issues, at least with respect to
trade policy, have been addressed in the design of the follow-up ISAC-2
operation. A broader issue to be faced, however, is whether problems of
implementation are not bound to thwart prograess towards the unshackling of
the economy, unless GOB could adopt a bold stance on the removal rather than
modification of official interventions. Lessons should be learned from the
failures to meet some of the first ISC Program's sound goals caused by
traditionalist attitudes to the role of the bureaucracy.
7 .5      Program RelationshiD.  IDA and GOB staff collaborated quite well in
preparing and implementing the Program, thus establishing an important basis
for continuing cooperation in the trade and finance reform processes in
Bangladesh. More progress might have occurred during the Credit period,
however, if the relationship had enabled a franker mutual appreciation of the
institutional weaknesses referred to above.



21
8.   Consultiut Services
8.1       As noted above, the TIP studies which made an important contrib-
ution to the ISC Program design failed to institutionalize effectively the
process of incentives analysis. Apparently the consultants made serious
efforts to transfer technology in this regard, but the bureaucracy was
unreceptive. Further efforts in this area would need to be designed and
closely monitored with a view to ensuring the paramountcy of the training
function in a suitable institutional environment.
8.2       The Credit itself did not include technical assistance (GOB being
reluctant to use IDA funds for this purpose), but three sets of consulting
services under other auspices proved essential for Program implementation:
(a) The UNDP funded and ADB executed TA for the two DFIs. The consult-
ants performed satisfactorily but might have been more effective in
the context of a stronger program to reform the institutions and/or
an investment operation that channnelled loan funds through them.
(b) UNDP also financed services to prepare and monitor the performance
contracts for the PEs in the absence of recruited staff for the
ABW; these have performed well.
(c) The export component of the Program also required TA, but this was
not arranged until its need was identified during supervision of
ISC and the concurrent preparation of the EDP. The latter included
TA funded by the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), comprising consultancy support for flat rates and inland
L/Cs for duty drawback (through DEDO), quota monitoring (through
EPB), and the credit guarantee scheme (ECGS). Unfortunately, these
services could not be mobilized until late in FY91, causing a
serious delay in strengthening these export institutions.
9.   Program Documentation and Data
9.1       The President's Report (No. P-4558-BD) and legal agreements for the
Credit presented the Program fairly clearly, providing a useful framework for
implementation. However, the baseline and reclassification difficulties noted
above precluded some of the assessments needed for the PCR until the trade
policy database was improved during preparation for the proposed follow-up
Credit supporting further QR and tariff reform.



22
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
10. General Comments
10.1        Established in 1971, Bangladesh is a capital poor economy having
agriculture as both the main contributor to GDP and the provider of employment
to the bulk of its population, although the share of agriculture to GDP has
decreased in the 1980s and the share of the industrial sector has increased over
the same period. The economy has been performing below its potential, growing
at an average rate of less than 4 percent a year in the 1980s. The scarcity of
domestic savings and consequent low level of investment were the two fundamental
constraints to growth of the economy. The availability of foreign assistance,
however, served both to supplement poor domestic savings and to facilitate the
transformation of savings into investment by the import of capital goods.
10.2        The Industrial Sector Credit, a sectoral adjustment credit signed
between GOB and IDA in June 1987 was aimed at extending assistance to GOB in
correcting distortions prevalent in the Bangladesh economy and strengthening
prospect for sustainable economic growth by way of achieving high industrial
growth so as to meet domestic demand, create off-farm employment, and improve
balance of payments position by expanding exports.   GOB greatly appreciates the
assistance extended by IDA in reinforcing the Government's adjustment efforts by
supporting the policy reform necessary to achieve the above objectives.  This
credit was a follow-up to a previously concluded series of 13 Import Program
Credits which also triggered actions to help correct the external balance of the
economy.
10.3        The ISC Program was  implemented during the period when an IMF
Structural  Adjustment  Facility  (SAF),  with  the  principal  objective  of
accelerating overall economic growth to over 5 percent a year and maintaining
macro-economic stability, was in operation.    While the SAF Program aimed at
improving the economic climate of Bangladesh by alleviating key structural
constraints, the ISC was programmed to support sectoral reforms for industrial
development.
10.4        The main thrust of the Program was to reform industrial and trade
policies. Significant positive changes took place in the investment approval
system which provided more flexibility for private investment (e.g. the limits
on the approval of private investment in free sector from own resources were
abolished).    The  trade  regime  has  also  undergone  substantial  changes.
Quantitative restrictions fell, tariffs were reduced and rationalized, and
incentives were provided for export.
10.5        The implementation and performance of the credit program have been
discussed in details in Part I of this report. GOB agrees with the IDA analysis
done in Part I and Part III, subject to the comments made below. Actual economic
performance during the period (FY88-FY89) was significantly less than expected.
The rate of growth of the economy was reduced from 4 percent in FY87 (the year
preceding the start of the credit) to 2.1 percent and 2.3 percent in the
subsequent two years FY88-FY89 respectively during which the Program was
implemented. Although the gross domestic investment was static during the



23
implementation period and thereafter, the exports grew faster than imports, thus
reducing fiscal and external deficits  and improving balance  of payments.
However, the policy changes will take some more time to affect the overall
economic growth, particularly in the area of industrial investment.
11.  Agencv Comments
11.1        Commenting on the export policy and administration component, the
National Board of Revenue notes that, as of 1992:
(a)    The bonded warehouse system helped Bangladesh to promote garments
exports, but at the same time there were instances of leakage of
duty free imported fabrics into the domestic market. This not only
deprived the Government of revenue but also exposed domestic textile
manufacturers to unfair competition. Based on the experience with
the garments industry, the Government has been approaching the issue
with caution. In 1991 the Government made a policy decision that in
principle such facility would be made available to all exporters and
started selectively extending the facility to exporters other than
the garments, taking adequate safeguards to protect revenue.
(b)    In addition, with the introduction of value added tax (VAT) and zero
rated exports associated with it, exporters can claim rebate on
imported inputs. Meanwhile DEDO has come a long way in its takes of
giving refunds of taxes paid by exporters on imports. DEDO has been
given the authority to write refund cheques, and has announced more
than three hundred flat rates.  Further steps are being taken to
make DEDO more effective, particularly in cutting delays in
approving refund application.
11.2        Regarding the import tariff and control regime:
(a)    NBR comments that tariff rates were compressed during the Credit
period and thereafter. Further compression into nine rates; 0, 7.5,
20, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100 and a few above 100 percent (with the last
three rates being temporary) are contemplated by the Government
under the ISAC-2. Tariff rates were lowered to 100 percent for all
items except in case of agreed luxury items.   Partial or total
exemptions from customs duty given earlier to specific end-use of
imports were withdrawn.
(b)    In principle, the Bangladesh Tariff Commission shares IDA's views
contained in Part I.  Regarding program design, organization and
implementation, the Tariff Commission is closely involved in the
tariff and import regime reform area (subpara. 4.1 (b)). Since 1987
a series of liberalization measures--reduction of the number of
control list items, rationalization of tariff structures, etc.--have
been taken by the GOB on the basis of examinations and
recommendations of the Tariff Co ission.  In addition, recognizing
the need for an institutionalization program and as part of the
development of the Effective Protection Studies (EPS) Unit



24
established under the Trade and Industry Policy (TIP) studies
program, the Institutional Development of the Tariff Commission
(IDTC)TA Project was conceived for a period of two years with effect
from July 1, 1991 and substantial progress has since been achieved.
(c)    The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports clarifies that, when the
negative list was introduced in July 1985 under Import Policy Order
1985-86,  a restricted list was also introduced then.   Bans and
restrictions already in force were included in the negative and
restricted  lists respectively.   These included the restrictions
pertaining to exporters and exchange-earning hotels, industrial
enterprises with passbooks, and importers with prior permission
(para. 6.3), which had already been in force as per the previous
IPO.
11.3        No comments were received from the authorities concerned with PE
reform or the finance sector component.



25
PART III : STATISTICAL INFORMATION
(Amounts in US$ million)
1.   Related IDA Credits
Credit No. 1816-BD  (C18160, C18161)                       As of: October 29, 1992
Original    Disbursed    Cancelled   Repaid    Outstandina
1816-0          190.0        195.94          nil        nil           nil
1816-1            2.5          2.43
2.   Proiect Timetable
Original Credit Dates        Actual Credit Dates
Initiating Memorandum                    02/25/86                    02/25/86
Letter of Sector Policy                  04/15/87                    04/15/87
Negotiations (concluded)                 04/14/87                    04/14/87
Board Approval                           06/09/87                    06/09/87
Credit Agreement                         06/22/87                    06/22/87
Effectiveness                            06/30/87                    06/27/87
Tranche Release                                                      06/27/88
Amending Agreement                                                   03/29/89
Amended Effectiveness                                                04/25/89
Credit Closing                           12/31/89                    05/11/89
Final Disbursement                       12/31/89                    05/11/89
Actual Completion                        06/30/89                    05/11/89
3.   Credit Disbursement                                               (Cumulative)
FY87     FY88      FY89      FY90
(i)     Planned                                 15.0      175.0      nil    190.0
(ii)    Actual                                   nil      105.8    92.5    198.4
(iii)   (ii) as percent of (i)                   __        60.5      --     104.4
4.   Missions
No. of    No. of       Staff    Date of
Month, Year    Weeks       Persons    weeks      Report
Preparation               May 1985           2.5          3          6     6/10/85
Appraisal                 March 1986         3            6         18     4/28/86
Supervision I             Sept/Oct 87        3            3         17    10/10/87
Supervision II            February 88        3            4         12     4/06/88
Completion                February 91        1            1          1     2/11/91
5.   Follow-up Adjustment Operations
BANGLADESH: Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, No. 2152-BD, approved in
June 1990 in the amount of US$175 million.
BANGLADESH: Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit, No. 2361-BD,
approved in May 1992 in the amount of US$150 million.
BANGLADESH: Second Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit, No. 2427-BD,
approved in October 1992 in the amount of US$100 million.



