Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4558-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 147.8 M'LLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR CREDIT
May 18, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its montents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US Dollar serving as intervention
currency. The official exchange rate on March 7, 1987 was Tk. 30.77 buying
and Tk. 30.83 selling per US Dollar.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABW     -       Autonomous Bodies Wing (Ministry of Finance)
BSB     -       Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSRS    -       Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
CCPE    -       Council Committee on Public Enterprises
DEDO    -       Duty Exemption/Drawback Office
DFI     -       Development Finance Institution
EPZ     -       Export Processing Zone
CDP     -       Gross Domestic Product
NBR     -       National Board of Revenue
NCB     -       Nationalized Commercial Bank
NGO     -       Non-Governmental Organization
NIP     -       New Industrial Policy
PFP     -       Policy Framework Paper
PSE     -       Public Sector Enterprise
QR      -       Quantitative Restriction
SAF     -       Structural Adjustment Facility
SFYP    -       Second Five-Year Plan
TFYP    -       Third Five-Year Plan
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT SUMMARY
Io  THE ECONOMY          ..................................................    1
Background  I................................. 
Recent Economic Developments             ...............................  2
Development Strategy ....           ...............................     3
Financing Needs and Prospects              ..............................  5
II.  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH *         .........................    6
III.  INDUSTRIAL SECTOR *........................                                8
Sector Context ...       ....................... .....   ..........     8
The New Industrial Policy (NIP)              ............................    10
IV. INDUSTRIAL POLICY FRAMEWORK AND REFORkS UNDER THE
PROPOSED SECTOR CREDIT  .....e....o............ ee.ee.. o.., 12
A.  Export Policies and Administration             .....................    12
B.  Tariff and Import Regime    ......... .....................        16
C.  Investment Sanctioning             .......... ...........o....    22
D.  Public Sector Industrial Enterprises             ...................    24
E.  Financial Sector Issues  ..**.....**.......**.......    26
Origins of Recovery Problem             ............................    27
DFI Action Program ....*0O*    .......     ......................  28
Establishment of Credit Discipline             .....................    28
Institutional and Financial Rehabilitation of the DFIs .    30
DFI Autonomy         ..........................*...   ...... .    30
Financial Restructuring             ................................    30
Institutional Strengthening of DFIs .....          ...............    31
V* THE CREDIT  ........................... ..............       **.* ....     31
Procurement and Disbursement             ...............................    31
Tranching                       ...... .                               32
VI.  COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF.         .. .        .....*.*.*.    33
VII.  RECOMMENDATION            ............*...................*.......        34
Annex I:    Economic Indicators
Annex II:   The Status of Bank Group Operations in Bangladesh
Annex III:  Summary of Actions and Implementation Schedule
This documont ha a festicted distbuon and may be used bg  -V in the pformance
of tei offica dues Its contents may not otherwbe be disb    44 Bank authofuztion.



BANGLADESH
Industrial Sector Credit
Credit Summary
Borrower:       People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount  :       SDR 147.8 million (US$190 million equivalent)
Terms   s       Standard
Purpose s       The Credit will provide foreign exchange to finance general
imports. In order to attain the objective of achieving high
rates of industrial growth to meet domestic demand, expand
exports and create employment outside agriculture, the
Government has agreed to undertake a major industrial policy
reform program. The reform program covers (a) developing
and improving administrative and financial arrangements for
implementation of export policies; (b) rationalizing the
structure of protection; (c) liberalizing the investment
approval system; (d) improving the central monitoring of the
performance of public enterprises, while granting them more
autonomy and strengthening their management; and
(e) improving the efficiency of the industrial credit
system.
Estimated
Disbursements:  The proposed Credit would be available for disbursement in
two tranches: SDR 77.8 million (US$100 million equivalent)
upon credit effectiveness and the remaining SDR 70.0 million
(US$90 milli,'n equivalent) subject to Government meeting the
specific conditions listed in Annex III and following a
review, no later than January 31, 1988, that sound industrial
sector policies are being followed. It is expected that
credit disbursements of about US$15 million equivalent will
take place in FY87 and US$175 million equivalent in FY88.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Industrial Sector Credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh in an amount
of SDR 147.8 million (the equivalent of US$190 million), on standard IDA
terms, to provide foreign exchange for financing general imports. The credit
would support the Government in implementing policy ard institutional reforms
in tne industrial sector.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      A Country Economic Report, "Bangladesh: Promoting Higher Growth and
Human Development" (Report No. 6616-BD, dated-March 10, 1987) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 16, 1987.
Background
3.      Bangladesh has a very high population density, limited natural
resources and widespread poverty. Annual per capita income is currently only
about $150; its continued high rate of population growth remains a major
constraint on development.
4.      Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, accounting for about half
of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and three quarters of employment and
exports. Despite good progress in agriculture, food production remains
vulnerable to natural disasters, and the country continues to require annual
foodgrain imports of about one tenth of total consumption. In addition,
agriculture has not been able to fully absorb the rapidly growing labor
force, nor to generate adequate foreign exchange earnings. Therefore, growth
in industry, which accounts for about 10 percent of GDP, and expansion in
labor-intensive exports have become important development objectives.
However, Bangladesh's labor force is largely unskilled and lacks the
education, health and nutrition necessary for this transition. The adult
literacy rate is only about 262, and per capita public expenditure on educa-
tion is among the lowest in the world. Other constraints on industrial
development include weak infrastructure (power, transportation), inefficient
public enterprises, restrictive trade and payments policies and a weak domes-
tic financial system.
5.      The economy is also characterized by a very low savings rate, which
in part reflects the low level of incomes, and by a large structural payments
gap. Remittances account for half of national savings, which in turn finance
less than half of total investment in the economy. Export earnings cover



-2-
only one third of the import bill, with raw jute and jute goods still
accounting for over half of total merchandise exports. The capacity to
finance imports can be severely affected by external factors (e.g., falling
jute prices, declining remittances) largely beyond the Government's control.
Inadequate growth in domestic resources also seriously constrains the financ-
ing of key public investments as well as the operation and maintenance of
existing assets.
6.      Despite these constraints and repeated disruptions caused by natural
disasters, Bangladesh has made significant progress in the 1980s. Notably,
policies designed to strengthen the agricultural, industrial, and export
sectors have been adopted, permitting the economy to grow by about 4X per
year during the Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) (FY81-85). 1/ Foodgrain produc-
tion growth averaged 3.52 per year during the same period despite adverse
weather conditions; this was faster than in the 1970s and significantly above
the rate of population growth. Industrial output, which stagnated in the
early 1980s, has rebounded, led by efficient import substitution and export
oriented, labor-intensive activities. Von-traditional exports have grown on
average by over 20% per year in the 1980s, and development of domestic com-
mercial energy supplies, especially natural gas, has increased rapidly,
enabling relatively high growth in the power and fertilizer sectors and
significant import substitution of petroleum products.
Recent Economic Developments
7.      The Government has continued to make progress during FY86 and FY87
towards creating a stable and undistorted economic environment. Monetary
expansion has been brought under control, and in response to prudent demand
management, the balance of payments and budget deficits have been brought
down to manageable levels and the rate of inflation has fallen to about 10.
The official exchange rate has been adjusted frequently in small steps to
improve and maintain competitiveness. The real effective exchange rate
depreciated by 12% in FY86; although a small appreciation of 4% occurred in
the first six months of FY87, this has recently been reversed. In addition,
the authorities have expanded the share of the transactions conducted at the
(free) -icondary market rate, and the gap between the official and secondary
exchange rate has narrowed from 151 in PY85 to an expected 7% in FY87.
8.      Interest rates continue to be maintained at positive real levels,
and while there is a need to increase the flexibility of the interest rate
structure, their general levels are for the most part sufficient to encourage
savings. Agricultural pricing policies are also more efficient than in many
other countries. Domestic farmgate prices generally reflect international
prices, providing appropriate signals to farmers. Finally, trade and
1/ Almost all data in Bangladesh refer to the financial year (FY) which
runs from July 1 to June 30.



-3-
industrial policies (tariffs, quotas, restrictions and licenses) have been
improved markedly since 1982, but especially in FY86 and FY87. However,
these improvements are only the first step in a phased program, and there are
still excessive distortions in the trade system, especially due to high and
variable tariffs.
9.      The last two years have also witnessed some disappointments.  Overall
real GCP growth in FY86 was 3.9%, lower than the previous two years and well
below the Third Five-Year Plan (TFYP) (FY86-90) goal of 5.4X. Industrial
expansion of only 1% in FY86 was well below the 9Z annual rate of the pre-
vious two years, and the agricultural sector appears to be losing its growth
momentum; foodgrain productior. fertilizer consumption, agriculture credit
and investment in irrigation equipment all fell in FY86 for the first time in
many years. In addition, the deterioration in credit recovery rates for both
agricultural and industrial loans led to serious resource misallocation and
harsh inequities. The Government has recently taken strong steps to restore
financial discipline, and data for the July 1986-March 1987 period show an
encouraging improvement.
Development Strategy
10.     The alleviation of poverty remains the cornerstone of the
Government's development strategy. In the first ten years of Independence
(1912-1981), the proportion of the population in extreme poverty (those
unable to afford enough food to live a reasonably active life) rose from 43%
to 50%. Real wages fell, and the quality of the diet worsened. Since 1982,
this deterioration appears to have been arrested. More food has been made
available to lower income groups, partly through the rapid expansion of
Food-for-Work and Vulnerable Group Feeding programs, and real agricultural
wages have risen, recovering to their pre-Independence levels in 1986 for the
first time. The incidence of poverty appears to have declined slightly,
although the absolute number of poor has continued to increase and the mag-
nitude of poverty remains overwhelming.
11.     The Government has recognized that sustaining and extending these
modest gains in poverty alleviation will require progress on two fronts.
First, overall economic growth must be raised, and second, increased emphasis
must be given to human development programs and to special interventions to
aid those who tend to be by-passed by overall economic growth.
12.     The TFYP seeks to raise the GDP growth rate to over 5Z per year.
This will require raising both investment and savings as a proportion of GDP
by about 2 percentage points each year over the five-year period and increas-
ing the efficiency of investment. The Government's policy priorities were
described in its Policy Framework Paper, discussed by the Committee of the



-4-
Whole on January 29, 1987. 1/ Six areas of particular emphasis were
described:
- restoring the momentum of growth to the agricultural sector
through improved service delivery;
- extending the process of industrial reform initiated under
the New Industrial Policy through deregulation, trade
lih-'ralization, privatization and promotion of non-traditional
exports;
- ensuring international competitiveness and balance of
payments stability through flexible exchange rate management
and prudent borrowing policies;
- strengthening the domestic fiuancial system through
rehabilitation of the Development Finance Institutions, stern
action against defaulters and the gradual establishment of
a more autonomous, accountable banking system;
- mobilizing additional public revenue through an enhanced
tax effort, subsidy reductions and public pricing policies; and
- improving the efficiency of public expenditure through expanded
operation and maintenance allocations, stricter evaluation of
investment projects and improved project implementation
capacity to use available external assistance more effectively.
13.     Overall economic growth, even if over 5X per year, will be insuffi-
cient to ensure adequate alleviation of poverty. Special interventions to
provide economic opportunities to the most vulnerable, including the landless
and women, are a necessary complement to sound economic management. A number
of innovative approaches involving the provision of credit, functional train-
ing and market information to groups of poor men and women have recently
yielded encouraging results. Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) are
playing an especially important role in this regard, and the Government is
currently exploring the scope for improved partnership with the NGOs in the
expansion of these programs.
14.     The Third Five-Year Plan also gives a higher priority to human
development programs than in the past. Health and education indicators
remain unacceptably low, and performance in Bangladesh continues to compare
unfavorably with other countries at a similar stage of development. Child
and infant mortality rates, for example, are twice the average rates for
1/ See "Bangladesh: Policy Framework Paper for the Period July 1986 - June
1989", dated January 15, 1987 (IDA/SecM87-12).



-5-
low-income countries, literacy rates are among the lowest in the world, the
population per nurse is still over three times the average for low-income
countries in Asia and the Pacific, and easily avoidable diseases still
account for a substantial proportion of deaths.
15.     Assisted by IDA and other donors, the Government is giving a high
priority to both expanding the coverage and improving the quality of human
development programs. In health and family planning, emphasis needs to be
given to improving internal efficiency and program management, strengthening
mother and child health care, improving coverage in urban areas and harness-
ing the unique strengths of the NG0s. In education, further efforts must be
made to reduce wastage and expand non-formal education opportunities.
Financing Needs and Prospects
16.     Achieving the goals of higher growth and enhanced human resource
development will require increase4 foreign aid flows. Total disbursements of
$5.5 billion are likely to be required over the remaining three years of the
TFYP period (FY88-90). This compares with disbursements of US$3.9 billion in
the most recent three years (FY84-86), representing a real increase of 201
for the period as a whole. Over half of the increased flows can come from
improved implementation performance of the large existing undisbursed project
aid pipeline (currently standing at over US$4.6 billion). No real increases
in project aid commitment levels (currently about US$1.1 billion per year)
will be required. Food aid will also continue to be required at about its
present level of US$250 million per year to help bridge the gap between
domestic production and effective demand, and to provide for vulac-able group
programs. Finally, commitments of quick disbursing program aid will need to
rise by about 5% per year in real terms. About US$1.7 billion of disburse-
ments of this form of aid will be required over the three-year period.
17.     With good progress in implementing the policy reform package, and
with careful aid coordination, almost two-thirds of the need for quick dis-
bursing aid is expected to be available from bilateral and other multilateral
donors. IDA would need to finance the remaining one-third, or about US$600
million during the three year period. In addition to the proposed Industrial
Sector Credit, IDA's program tentatively includes quick disbursing credits to
support policy adjustments and institutional strengthening in the financial,
energy, education and agriculture sectors, and a Structural Adjustment
Credit.
18.     This level of borrowing is not expected to place excessive strain
on Bangladesh's debt servicing capacity. While the debt service ratio
(including obligations to the IMF) has risen over the last three years, from
16% in FY84 to 30% in FY87, this has been due primarily to repurchase obliga-
tions to the Ih' and to repayments of commercial food loans necessitated by
the 1984 floods. The ratio will fall to 21% in FY88 and is projected to
level out below 20% in the l990s.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
19.     Cumulative Bank Group commitments to Bangladesh total US$3,709.9
million equivalent. This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits
(US$154.4 million) made to Pakistan before 1971 as well as a consolidation
loan (US$54.9 million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.5 million) approved
in 1975 to cover liabilities arising from projects complet-d prior to
Independence. IDA has approved 96 new credits since Bangladesh became a
member in 1972. Of the total IDA comnitments, approximately 20% have been
for agriculture, irrigation and rural development, 17% for power and energy,
9% for industry, 8% for education and technical assistance, 6% for transpor-
tation and telecommunications, 3% for population control, 3% for urban
infrastructure, and 34% for imports program support. Since Bangladesh became
a member of IFC in 1976, five investments have been approved.
20.     IDA chairs the annual BangLadesh Aid Group meeting which provides a
forum for donor consultation, and IDA's Resident Representative chairs
regularly scheduled donor meetings in Dhaka to exchange views on policy
issues, project implementation and aid coordination. In November 1986, IDA
chaired a special meeting of donors and Government repreeentatives, hosted
by the Federal Republic of Germany, to review programs to assist the rural
poor in Bangladesh.
21.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the Third
Plan's priority development objectives (para. 12). IDA lending has
emphasized agriculture, with particular importance attached to increasing
food production by augmenting the supply of essential inputs such as irriga-
tion equipment, fertilizer and improved seeds, the development of extension
servlcPs, research programs and rural cooperatives, -he provision of agricul-
tural credit and the promotion of input and output pricing policies that
allow adequate incentives to farmers to increase production. IDA has also
supported the Government's efforts to encourage greater private sector par-
ticipation in the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. Finally,
IDA's lending program has promoted agricultural diversification through
increased production of fish and forestry products.
22.     IDA assistance to Bangladesh's industrial sector is intended to
enhance the sector's capacity to contribute to a higher, sustained level of
economic growth, provide productive employment for a rapidly growing work
force and improve the country's external trade and payments position on a
sustained basis. IDA has assisted Banglades''s industrial sector through
program credits as well as specific projects to increase fertilizer
production, rehabilitate the jute and textile industries, strengthen develop-
ment finance institutions and promote small-scale industries. The proposed
Industrial Sector Credit is the first of a series of policy-based credits
intended to support industrial and trade policy refcrms, export promotion
efforts, enhancement of public enterprise efficiency and financial sector



-7-
reforms.  This credit provides a policy framework for future industrial
credits and specific industrial investment projects.
23.     IDA's lending in the energy sector has been designed to expand the
use of natural gas as a substitute for imported oil, rationalize the supply
of petroleum products, promote conservation and more efficient energy use and
encourage further gas and oil exploration. IDA is also financing projects to
expand the country's power generation and transmission capabilities and rural
electrification system. Recognizing the critical shortage of traditional
fuels, IDA is financing investments in forestry to increase the supply of
fuelwood.
24.     In the transportation sector, IDA has supported projects to improve
the inland water transport system, expand the country's sea port facilities
and upgrade key sections of the road network, as well as a multi-modal
project to enhance fertilizer handling and distribution operations.
Bangladesh's road network is extensive, but the roads are in poor condition
and inadequately maintained. IDA's future transport lending will concentrate
primarily on supporting the Government's programs to rehabilitate
deteriorated roads, improve maintenance standards, techniques and expenditure
levels and strengthen overall investment planning.
25.     In the educatior sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on primary
education and skills development. Lending for primary education supports the
national goals of achieving universal primary education, reducing illiteracy,
expanding access to education and upgrading quality. Projects for vocational
and technical education promote the training of craftsmen, technicians and
engineers.
26.     To help alleviate the severe economic and social pressures created by
the extremely high population density and the continuing population increase,
IDA and other donors are assisting the Government in implementing accelerated
family planning and maternal and child health care programs. Bangladesh's
urban population is expected to increase from about 16-18 million in 1985 to
between 35-40 million by the year 2000. IDA is already financing water and
sanitation improvements in Chittagong and Dhaka, and future projects are
planned to provide IDA support to help the Government address the problem of
providing low-cost shelter and infrastructure services to the urban poor.
27.     Bangladesh has needed, and will continue to need, substantial fast
disbursing foreign exchange resources, on highly concessional terms, because
of the large structural imbalances between the country's export earnings and
import requirements, and its domestic savings rate and investment needs. To
assist Bangladesh in addressing these structural problems, a significant
proportion of IDA's annual lending to Bangladesh has been and will be, in the
form of fast disbursing program credits. In addition to providing much-
needed foreign e-change and local counterpart financial support, annual
program credits provide a useful vehicle for addressing a wide range of
sectoral and macro-economic policy issues. IDA plans to focus its future



-8-
policy dialogue on measures designed to improve the efficiency of the
industrial sector, strengthen the financial system, encourage the efficient
development of the energy sector, address policy and institutional issues in
education, and strengthen agricultural sector institutions. IDA's support in
these areas would likely be through fast disbursing sector adjustment
credits. IDA will also continue to provide support for adjustment policies
designed to mobilize more domestic financial resources in the public and
private sectors and more efficient resource utilization through measures to
increase public sector revenues, enhance the efficiency of public sector
enterprises and improve the planning of public expenditures and investment.
28.     Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of domestic
financial resources, but also by weak institutions, limited managerial
capacity and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA, in consultation with
other donors, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with the Government on ways
to improve project implementation. In support of broader institutional
reform, IDA is: (a) providing technical assistance for project preparation
and implementation, (b) financing projects to train civil servants and other
managerial and technical personnel, and (c) encouraging the Government to
introduce administrative reforms and improve the structure and management of
the civil service.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL. SECTOR
Sector Context
29.     Bangladesh's manufacturing sector accounts for about 12% of GDP and
8Z of total employment. The modern manufacturing sector, consisting of
public sector and large-scale private units, generates 58% of value added but
employs only 18% of the manufacturing labor force. Small and cottage
industries account for most of the employment (82%) in the sector and the
remaining 42% of total value added. The public sector's share has declined
continuously since mid-1975 and currently constitutes about 40% of total
fixed assets in the modern manufacturing sector, compared to about 90% in
1972.
30.     Despite the manufacturing sector's relatively small size, it plays a
prominent role in the country's external trade. Mostly due to jute products,
it currently accounts for almost three-fourths of total merchandise exports.
About 30% of value added in modern manufacturing now originates in export
activities. Bangladesh has very iimited natural resources and depends on
imports for most of its raw materials. Given the import-intensive nature of
industry, manufactured exports, especially non-traditional exports, will have
to continue to expand rapidly to meet growing import requirements, if the
sector is to grow rapidly without creating undue pressure on the balance of
payments.



-9-
31.     At the time of independence in 1971, Bangladesh's nascent industrial
sector was in disarray. Bangladeshi entrepreneurs owned only 18% of total
fixed assets in the modern industrial sector, the rest being owned by non-
locals and the East Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation (EPIDC).
Under Presidential Order (P.O.) 27 of March 1972, the Government of
Bangladesh took over all enterprises considered abandoned by their non-
Bangladeshi owners as well as EPIDC's units. The Government also national-
ized all units owned by Bangladeshis in cotton textiles, jute and sugar
manufacturing. As a result, public ownership of fixed assets in modern
manufacturing increased from about one third to almost 90%. The private
sector was also excluded from jute export trade, insurance and banking; its
role was limited to business activities with fixed assets below Tk 1.5
million.
32.     The loss of entrepreneurs and managers, physical damage to assets and
infrastructure, loss of export markets and the transition to public ownership
all disrupted the sector. By FY75 industrial output had declined to 75% of
its FY69 level. Government emphasis on rehabilitation of existing units and
higher capacity utilization helped industry rebound, and industrial output
increased at an annual average rate of 7Z during FY75-FY81. Nevertheless,
the FY69 level of industrial output was regained only in FY79. After this
initial spurt in industrial production due to higher utilization of existing
capacity, the sector stagnated during FY81-FY83 because of a sharp decline in
Bangladesh's terms of trade, reductions 'in Government investments due to
resource constraints and demand management policies introduced in the FY83
Budget.
33.     Following the early nationalization measures and concentration on
public sector industrial units (1972-75), there was subsequently a shift in
the Government's policies to encourage a more active role by the private
sector in industrial development. The number of industries reserved for the
public sector was reduced to 18 in 1975. Investment ceilings for private
industries were raised in steps to Tk 100 million and finally abolished in
1978. The rights of foreign equity shareholders were restituted. In 1975,
the Government decided to denationalize selected enterprises previously owned
by Bangladeshis and to disinvest "abandoned" enterprises by auctioning them.
Under this policy 116 units were turned over to the private sector between
1976 and 1982. The stock exchange, closed between 1972-75, was reopened, and
in 1976 the Investment Corporation of Bangladesh was established to provide
bridge financing and underwriting facilities to the private sector.
Industrial term credit to the private sector was increased from Tk 200 mil-
lion in FY76 to Tk 1,481 million in FY80. Despite these positive
developments, the relative inefficiency of public sector enterprises (PSEs),
the elaborate system of administrative controls and a complex structure of
incentives inhibited industry from responding quickly and effectively to the
changed environment. Furthermore, achievement of the increases in the
efficiency of resource allocation expected from privatization were con-
strained by major iftefficiencies in credit allocation by the financial
system. In most cases, the industries financed by the Development Finance



-10-
Institutions (DFIs) were determined by the Government in an ad hoc manner.
As a result, the growth of manufacturing output, which averaged about 4.2% a
year during FY74-83, fell significantly short of its potential.
The New Industrial Policy (NIP)
34.     To respond to these problems and promote more rapid
industrialization, the Government introduced a New Industrial Policy in June
1982. NIP's objectives are to liberalize industrial policies, denationalize
selected PSEs, improve the efficiency of the remaining PSEs and promote the
private sector. Following NIP's introduction, the Government has
accomplished an extensive denationalization program, import and investment
regimes have been liberalized and export and exchange regimes rationalized.
35.     The pace of divestment/denationalization was accelerated after the
NIP's announcement. The Government denationalized 27 textile mills, con-
stituting 45% of the country's spinning and 57% of its weaving capacity, and
33 jute mills accounting for 38% of total production capacity. More recently
four more textile mills were sold through tenders. In addition, 474 other
industrial enterprises and two nationalized commercial banks have been
divested to the private sector, and 92 additional industrial units are in the
process of divestiture. Furthermore, the private sector has been allowed to
enter the banking sector, and there are now ten private banks, five of them
foreign. The denationalization policies have facilitated a reorganization
and consolidation of PSEs, including capital restructuring and
rehabilitation. The number of public industrial corporations was reduced
from 11 to 6, and large amounts of debt were converted into equity. However,
the denationalization program's magnitude and speed led to the transfer of
many firms without adequate agreements on responsibility for past debts and
on asset values, which has contributed to the financial institutions' loan
recovery problems (para. 84).
36.     A major incentive designed to stimulate exports has been the sig-
nificant real devaluation of the exchange rate starting in FY76 and
accelerating after FY80. As a result non-traditional exports have grown very
rapidly, with their annual growth rate accelerating over the last five years
to 28% in FY84 and 38% in FY85 in real terms. The share of non-traditional
exports in total merchandise exports has consequently increased from 51 in
FY74 to 18% in FY80 and 33X in FY85.
37.     Despite serious foreign exchange shortages since FY79, the Government
has gradually simplified and liberalized its import regime. Major reforms
include the adoption of a new commodity classification system, rationaliza-
tion of the import regime and tariffs, simplification and standardization of
import procedures and lifting of quantitative restrictions on most industrial
raw materials. Furthermore, imports have been progressively shifted from the
controlled official (cash) market to the secondary market where the exchange
rate better reflects the opportunity cost of foreign exchange. In FY87 the
secondary market's share of total imports will increase to 42% from 28Z in



-11-
FY86, and currently only foreign aided and petroleum imports are channeled
through the official market.
38.     Recognizing the need to reduce the rigid controls and cumbersomne
sanctioning procedures on private industrial investment in Bangladesh, the
Government has taken several steps to liberalize the investment approval
process and increase incentives to private investors. Since the NIP was
introduced in 1982, only six industries (arms and ammunition, atomic energy,
telecommunications, air transport&tion, power generation and distribution,
and mechanized forestry) have been reserved for public investment, while both
public and private investment are allowed in thirteen others. The most
important initiative was the introduction in FY80 of a free list of
industries not requiring investment approval (subject to certain requirements
about their financing) and its subsequent expansion to 50 categories (out of
144).
39.     As a result of the improved policy environment and favorable mact
economic developments, the industrial sector grew 9X p.a. during FY84 and
FY85. The demand for industrial products was stimulated by the combination
of increased purchasing power due to sustained growth in agriculture,
monetary expansion during FY84-FY85 and the greater availability of raw
material imports for industry as a result of successful import substitution
in energy and fertilizers. The gro,4th of workers' remittances during the
1980s also created additional domestic demand and supplied a major source of
foreign exchange. Von-traditional exports performed well during this period.
Ready-made garment exports led the way, increasing in value from $10.8 mil-
lion in FY83 to US$116 million in FY85. The garment sector alone has created
about 140,000 jobs, mostly for poor women, in the last three years.
Industrial growth fell to 1% p.a. in FY86, mostly as a result of unfavorable
macroeconomic developments. The collapse of jute prices in the international
market coupled with monetary restraints and the credit recovery drive led to
decreases in demand for textiles and agricultural implements. Output reduc-
tion in these two sectors and jute manufacturing lowered the overall growth
rate. In addition, export growth in garments decreased due to international
quota restrictions. While there was a large decrease in real public sector
investment, private manufacturing investment almost doubled between FY81 and
FY85, with most investments flowing into export and other labor intensive
industries. Although real private investment declined in FY86, it was still
75% higher than in FY81. The sector's structure has also changed radically.
Most of the growth has come from labor intensive industries like garments and
light engineering. The chemicals subsector has also grown at a faster pace
due to increased production of fertilizers and pharmaceuticals. The increase
in the share of labor intensive industries has been at the expense of older
industries such as cotton textiles, jute, paper and tobacco, the combined
share of which is now below 42%, compared to 62% in FY74.
40.     Achieving rapid growth and diversification in the industrial sector
with heavy emphasis on labor intensive activities is an important element in
the Government's policy to meet domestic demand, expand export markets and



-12-
create employment outside agriculture. To achieve these objectives, the
Government must simultaneously continue its program of reform and adjustment
in industry and strengthen the financial sector. The proposed credit would
support that process.
PART IV - INDUSTRIAL POLICY FRAMEWORK AND REFORMS UNDER THE
PROPOSED INDUSTRIAL SECTOR CREDIT
41.     The policy reforms supported by the proposed credit are based on
joint reviews by the Government and IDA of the experience under the NIP as
well as on the preliminary reports of studies financed under the Fourth
Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1124-BD) on trade and industrial policies,
on the UNDP financed Public Sector Enterprise monitoring and management
project and on the Institutional Review and Portfolio Audit of the DFIs. In
June 1985, the Government set up an interministerial task force to interact
with IDA on industrial sector issues, and IDA and the Government subsequently
reached agreement on the broad outlines of a comprehensive medium-term
industrial reform program. The Government has made significant progress in
implementing the agreed policy reforms and will continue to implement them in
a phased manner. The proposed Industrial Sector Credit would support the
Government's industrial policy reforms as well as strengthen the administra-
tive arrangements necessary to implement them. The reform program covers
(a) developing and improving the administrative and financial arrangements
for implementation of export policies, (b) rationalizing the structure of
protection, (c) liberalizing the investment approval system, (d) improving
central monitoring of the performance of public enterprises, while granting
them more autonomy and strengthening their management and (e) improving the
efficiency of the industrial credit system.
A. Export Policies and Administration
42.     After independence, Bangladesh's export structure was dominated by
jute and to a smaller extent, tea, while non-traditional exports were only 5Z
of total exports. International demand and prices for jute have declined
consistently since the 1970s due to competition from synthetic fibers. In
order to reduce dependence on jute, the Government of Bangladesh has tried
to diversify its exports by encouraging other domestic resource-based
industries such as shrimp and leather as well as new activities which process
imported raw materials for export. The first breakthrough in the latter type
of activity was in readymade garment exports (para. 39). The framework of



-13-
reform outlined below is intended to generalize the processes and institu-
tional mechanisms which were successful in garments to other export
activities. 1/
43.     Although the Government has already made significant progress in many
areas of export policy and administration, further actions are necessary if
the export growth momentum is to be maintained. Several general principles
should guide these actions. First, priority should be given to designing
more efficient administrative systems and to creating or strengthening the
institutions necessary to implement specific policies which have already beer.
announced but not yet implemented effectively. Second, product or firm-
specific policies and guidelines should be generalized to all industries and
firms that generate direct and indirect exports, without bureaucratic
impediments. Finally, institutional mechanisms are needed that would react
with speed and flexibility to external challenges such as protectionism
through close collaboration between the Government and the export sector.
44.     Exchange Rates for Exporters.  Since FY80 the Government of
Bangladesh has devalued the currency in real terms by 17Z to increase export
competitiveness. In addition, adjustments to the Export Performance Benefits
system, which allows exporters to obtain part of their export receipts at the
higher secondary market rate, have also contributdd to the pace of effective
devaluation for exporters. Under the IMF Stand-By Arrangement effective
until June 1987, the Government of Bangladesh will continue to pursue a
flexible exchange rate policy designed to avoid a renewed appreciation of the
official real effective exchange rate. Under the proposed credit, the
Government would continue to-manage its exchange rate policy in line with
this objective.
45.     Free Trade Status for Exports.  A major objective of the proposed
credit is to establish a policy framework that gives direct and indirect
exporters the equivalent of free-trade status for their export activities.
Under free trade status for exports, firms should be able to import required
inputs without restrictions and be exempt from duty and other taxes on these
inputs.
46.     Restriction-Free Imports.  Under the 1985-86 Import Policy Order a
"negative list" system-was introduced for general imports, but a "positive
list" is still retained for banned and restricted items that can be imported
only by designated export industries. Even though the current practice does
1/ rhe reform program which would be supported under this credit is
designed to stimulate non-traditional exports. Jute exports, the largtst
traditional export product, face different problems and require addi-
tional measures. IDA has recently completed a study of the jute sector
which is being reviewed with the Government.



-14-
not restrict access to imported inputs for most existing export industries,
the Government has agreed to change the system from a case-by-case or
product-by-product approach to a general system under which no import
restriction would be applied to inputs used for direct and indirect exports,
other than the general procedures laid down by the proposed Duty Exemption
Drawback System (para. 47). Since the proposed system is in the process of
being established, as an interim measure the Government's FY87 Import Policy
Order decrees that exporting units can import banned raw materials with a
recommendation from the Export Promotion Board and permission from the Chief
Comptroller of Imports and Exports.
47.     D    Ft Free Imports.  Currently there are five administrative
exemption/drawback schemes to exempt exporters' imports from duties as well
as direct and indirect taxes. These schemes are applied to different
products, and because of administrative problems, they have been largely
ineffective. Currently, bonded warehouses (without custom officer), which
are allowed only for garment and specialized textile manufacturers that
export lOOX of their output, are the most efficient of these schemes 1/ and
have contributed significantly to the success of garment exports. The
Government plans to generalize the bonded warehouse system and make it the
cornerstone of the duty-free import administration for all firms that gener-
ate exports directly or indirectly. Even if the bonded warehouse system can
be made effective, expcrters should still be offered the choice of alterna-
tive drawback systems. To establish and manage a generalized bonded
warehouse system and to develop the other alternative duty drawback systems,
the Government has decided to set up a Duty Exemption/Drawback Office (DEDO)
within the National Bureau of Revenue (NBR). DEDO will consolidate all
policy-related and other technical tasks on imports for exports which are
currently being carried out by various agencies. In June 1986, the
Government established a cell to form the nucleus of DEDO. DEDO will be
converted into a permanent department by July 1, 1987, and initiation of its
activities would be a condition for release of the credit's second tranche.
48.     In addition to the duty exemption/drawback schemes, Bangladesh has
opened an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) in Chittagong where both foreign and
local enterprises can set up factories exempt from customs duties and import
restrictions. This initiative has so far met with only limited success.
Currently fourteen firms are operating in the EPZ; five more are expected to
begin operation in the near future. EPZ's development has been hampered by
(a) the Zone Autho-ity's limited autonomy to approve investments and in other
administrative matters, (b) lack of infrastructural facilities in the Zone
and (c) lower incentives compared to zones in other countries. A sub-
committee set up to evaluate the EPZ's performance emphasized these con-
1/ The notional payment system used successfully in some developing
countries is similar to the bonded warehouse system (without custom
officer).



-15-
straints in a report submitted to the National Committee on Industrial
Development. The sub-committee's recommendations were accepted, and amend-
ments to the Zone Authority's Orders were issued in June 1986. The amended
Order concentrates all decision-making powers in the Zone Authority so that
potential investors can deal with only one agency. This should significantly
facilitate both new investments and the operations of the existing units.
Furthermore, the Zone Authority's increased powe, .snable it to act independ-
ently to change both the incentive structure and to decide on infrastructural
investments in the zone.
49.     Export Financing.  Pre- and post-shipment working capital export
financing is available only to direct exporters in local currency from the
commercial banks up to 90% of an export L/C or order. To ensure equal, easy
access to working capital financing for direct and indirect exporters, fur-
ther improvem~ents will be made in three major areas. First, small and infant
exporters' access to preshipment working capital cannot be assured unless the
preshipment export finance guarantee system is strengthened. The Export
Credit Guarantee Scheme of Sadharan Bima Corporation, a Government-owned
insurance company, is Bangladesh's only export guarantt' institution. Until
recently, the coverage of this scheme was very limited. In FY87 the
Government restructured the Export Credit Guarantee Wing by converting it
into a department with a separate budget and increased its capital and staff.
However, duje to rapid expansion of its coverage in FY87 the guarantee system
requires further restructuring to increase its effectiveness. Second,
indirect exporters currently do not have access to the Government's export
financing system. Third, preshipment credit in foreign exchange for purchase
of imported inputs is not available to all exporters. Some exporters can
import inputs only on suppliers' credit, while others are not allowed to
import on such credit. Such product-based export credit leads to
bottlenecks, especially for new exporters and products.
50.     The following actions will be taken under this credit to address
these problems in export financing:
(a)  The Government will prepare. a plan to strengthen the arrangements for
export credit guarantees and following review of it with IDA, imple-
ment agreed measures as a condition for release of the second
tranche. This plan would include, as necessary, provisions for
increased autonomy and expansion of capital, staff and management of
the scheme; it would also review the need for technical assistance.
(b)  Bangladesh Bank established a task force in May 1986 to rationalize
the structure of export financing through modernization of
administrative arrangements for pre-shipment financing, the creation
of a foreign exchange revolving fund to finance exporters' imports
and the establishment of rediscounting mechanisms for export loans.
Implementation of this task force's agreed recommendations will be a
condition for release of the second tranche.



-16-
51.     Promotion of Backward Linkages.  The Government's objective of
increasing the value added of exports by providing equal export incentives to
input-supplying indirect exporters has not been achieved, primarily because
Bangladesh lacks administrative mechanisms to give incentives to indirect
exporters. The Inland Back-to-Back L/C system, which is already used in
Bangladesh for a few products, is an administrative system that can enable
indirect exporters to enjoy duty exemption/drawback as well as the credit
benefits of direct exporters. This system should be generalized to all
indirect products and all types of indirect expor.ers. The Government should
also introduce export finance guarantees to pool the risks of infant and
small exporters to complement the effects of the Inland Back-to-Back L/C
system in facilitating backward linkages. To achieve these objectives,
circulars and manuals are being prepared on the administrative mechanisms for
the expansion of the Inland Back-to-Back L/C system to all indirect exports
and export incentives. The issuance of these circulars and manuals will be a
condition for release of the second tranche.
52.     Responding to Import Quotas.  The sudden imposition of garment quotas
by several OECD countries in 1985 created an atmosphere of uncertainty and
caused losses, factory closures and large-scale layoffs. The internal quota
allocation system was delayed and when announced, it created serious problems
for established exporters. The Government has significantly revised the
internal quota allocation policy for 1987 and 1988 and has issued it three
months prior to the start of the quota year, so that problems encountered in
1986 will not be repeated. While every effort should be made to enlarge
Bangladesh's quotas, the Government should also develop the capacity to
respond quickly, if quotas appear likely to be imposed on other products, by
alerting exporters and facilitating orderly adjustments. For this purpose,
the Export Promotion Bureau has established an export monitoring unit. This
unit will be operational for monitoring garment exports as a condition of the
second tranche.
B. Tariff and Import Regime
53.     The structure of protection in Bangladesh is characterized by tariff
anomalies and extensive administrative mechanisms to allocate foreign
exchange as well by various types of quantitative restrictions (QRs). Most
products at the final stages of production are protected by outright bans,
restrictions or high tariffs. Tariffs for intermediate products are
generally quite high but lower than the rates for final products. However,
there are serious anomalies within this general structure because some inter-
mediate inputs are banned or have much higher tariffs than final products.
Special exemptions and the existence of many transactions that bypass offi-
cial channels create additional anomalies in the levels of effective protec-
tion for different industries. The structure is further complicated by the
very large number of tariff rates and the way different products are assigned
to them. Import duties are itiportant because, in addition to protecting
domestic industries, they provide more than 55X of government tax revenues.
Since the Government faces a serious domestic resource shortage, any program



-17-
to reduce tariffs must also give close attention to alternative measures to
provide offsetting revenue sources.
54.     The medium-term strategy for tariff and import regime reform in
Bangladesh has three major components:
(a) The tariff structure needs to be rationalized to reduce the wide
variation of tariffs and ensure that similar products have similar
tariff rates. This requires reduction of a number of tariff rates,
consistency in product allocation to different rates and reduction of
the range of effective protection among different products.
(b) The role of QRs and other administrative controls on imports should
be reduced; QRs should gradually be phased out so that industries are
only protected by tariffs.
(c) Given the predominance of import duties in Government revenues,
tariff reforms will have to be accompanied by tax reform to generate
alternative revenue sources. Further work therefore needs to be done
to evaluate the existing tax system and identify new revenue sources.
55.     Rationalization of the Tariff Structure.  Until FY86 the tariff code
had twenty-four different statutory rates (including zero). There is also a
sales tax levied at different rates only on imports, further increasing the
number of effective duty rates. These rates are not based on easily
discernible, consistent principles. As a result, for many products, basic
raw materials receive higher protection than intermediate outputs, which are
in turn protected more heavily than final products. In many cases, basically
similar raw materials are treated differently when used in different inter-
mediate and final processes. The most important problem is that products
assumed to be highly protected either by bans or very high tariffs have not
been able to enjoy this protection consistently because tariff concessions
and exceptions have been accorded indiscriminately to many related products,
thereby eroding the protection, and because large quantities of goods are
imported by smuggling.l/ Since concessions and extra-legal imports have very
uneven impacts, industries in which products are subject to smuggling and/or
concessions have had very low or even negative rates of protection, while
other industries not affected by smuggling and/or concessions have had high
levels of protection.
1/ In many subsector studies, a large gap seems to exist between the
domestic supply plus official imports and any reasonable demand
estimates. They are prominent in textiles (yarn and cloth), bicycle
tires, cigarettes, electronics, cutlery and chinaware, batteries and
toiletries.



-18-
56.     To eliminate the problems associated with 24 tariff rates, the
Government recategorized about 7,000 items in 11 tariff rates in FY86. Of
these 11 rates, five are for the majority of raw materials (rates of 0-20X),
one for intermediate products (50% rate) and one for final products (100%
rate). In addition, there are four higher rates for some final products,
mainly what are called luxury consumption goods: 150% for items such as
music centers and washing machines, 200% for made-up textiles, perfumes and
precious stones, 300% for cars and ready-made garments and 400% for
cigarettes. The new system constitutes a major reform in reducing the varia-
tion in tariffs and ratiodalizing the structure.
57.     In addition to the reforms already undertaken, the following further
actions are needed:
(a)  Although the number of tariff rates has been reduced, the addition of
sales taxes to these tariffs still results in a large number of
effective duty rates. Therefore, further reduction in the number of
effective duty rates is desirable. To achieve this objectivep in
early FY87 the Government recategorized sales taxes into three rates
of 0, 10% and 20% and started to eliminate sales tax on many
products by assigning zero percent sales tax to them. In FY88 and
FY89 the Government will introduce a revised tariff schedule by
reducing the number of tariff rates to eight (0, 2.5Z, 5%, 10%, 20X,
50%, 75% and 100%) and limiting the sales tax to two rates (OS and
20%); this will reduce the number of effective duty rates from 33 to
16.
(b)  The tariffs above 100Z on many goods give unduly high rates of
protection to domestic producers and encourage smuggling. The
Government will reduce tariffs on luxury goods with tariffs of 100%
or more to a maximum of 100% over a two-year period.l/ Maximum tariff
rates will be reduced to 150% by FY88 and to 100% by FY89. The first
reduction in FY88 will be a condition of the second tranche release.
(c)  Although the rationalization of tariff rates eliminated many
anomalies, some sectors still face very uneven rates of effective
protection and other anomalies which impede their development. These
problems are particularly acute in the two largest subsectors, the
textiles and the steel and engineering subsectors. These two subsec-
tors account for about 40% of value added in manufacturing and more
than 50% of all imports. Based on technical assistance studies and
the recommendations of IDA missions, a three-year program (FY88-FY90)
has been developed to reduce the total protection in these two sec-
1/ On seven items with very high domestic excise taxes, special higher
rates will apply i.e. 300Z for whisky and luxury cars and 200% for
beverage concentrates, precious stones, cigarettes, perfumes and furs.



-19-
tors (including sales tax, customs duty, development surcharge and
import license fee) in phases to a range of 0-85% from ranges of
approximately 25-200Z in textiles and 2.5-200% in steel and
engineering. The revenue losses expected from these changes would be
approximately 2-3% of all tax revenues if the volume of imports did
not change. The Government has agreed in principle to liberalize the
tariffs in these two subsectors and started adjusting tariffs in FY86
and FY87. This restructuring will be implemented over a three year
period beginning FY88. In the first year of this program (FY88) the
Government will reduce the maximum total protective tariff for final
goods in these sectors from over 200% to 125% and make consequential
downward adjustment to rates for raw materials and intermediate
products. The tariff reductions in FY88 will be a condition of the
second tranche release.
(d) A longer term program of further tariff rationalization should be
carried out in other subsectors, based on ongoing effective protec-
tion studies financed by the Fourth Technical Assistance Credit (Cr.
1124-BD). The Government is committed to further tariff
rationalization, and subsequent phases of the reform could be sup-
ported under future sector credits.
58.     The two subsectors for which protection will be restructured under
the credit face special problems. In textiles, the major problem has been
the high cost of imported cotton and cotton yarn caused by high tariffs and
bans, while weaving (including handlooms) has been squeezed by cheaper legal
and illegal cloth imports. Domestic textile production has grown very slowly
since independence, with very little improvement in quality. However, there
is a large domestic market for cloth if prices can be lowered and quality
improved. Furthermore, the rapid growth of garment exports, which currently
use only imported fabric, has created a large market which could be filled by
more efficient, higher quality domestic cloth production. The objective in
this sector is to lower tariffs and eliminate anomalies while relaxing QRs.l/
59.     In steel and engineering, the main problem is the high cost of domes-
tically produced steel, due to a very inefficient public sector steel mill
and high tariffs on imports to ensure the mill's profitability. At the same
time, the products of the metal-working industry receive almost no
protection. The recommended strategy is to reduce the price of basic steel
by lowering tariffs, eliminating ad hoc duty concessions given to different
firms and increasing tariffs on engineering products to eliminate the nega-
tive protection they currently face. This might require direct production
subsidies if the Government maintains the steel mill's present outrut mix.
The revenue implications for the central budget of alternative action pack-
1/ In addition, there are two ongoing IDA textile projects (Cr. 1215-BD
and Cr. 1477-BD) for restructuring public as well as private units.



-20-
ages (e.g., physically restructuring the mill, closing it down or changing
its output mix) have been presented to the Government.
60.     Reducing Quantitative Restrictions.  The main thrust of IDA's
dialogue with the Government on the import regime has been to encourage it
to: (a) move imports from the official market where the rates are administra-
tively determined to the secondary market where the exchange rate better
reflects the opportunity cost of foreign exchange; (b) replace the positive
list which specifies importable products with a negative list in which only
prohibited products are specified so that the magnitude of QRs are tran-
sparent and can be monitored; and (c) reduce QRs over time and move towards
protection by tariffs.
61.     The Government has made significant progress in transferring foreign
trade transactions from the official to the secondary market, paving the way
for eventual unification of these markets.  The share of exports going
through the secondary market increased from 27X in FY85 to 53Z in FY86 and is
planned to reach 71% in FY87.  As a result, raw jute, tea, and wet blue
leather will be the only exports transacted at the official exchange rate.
The share of imports coming through the secondary market increased from 20%
in FY85'to 28% in FY86 and is expected to reach 421 in FY87. As a result of
changes announced this fiscal year, all non-Government imports, except those
financed by foreign aid or through barter arrangements, will come through the
secondary market. The major items imported through the official market will
be foodgrains, fertilizer and certain capital equipment for officially spon-
sored projects.
62.     As a result of understandings reached during preparation of the
proposed credit, in FY86 the Government moved from a positive to a negative
list, supplemented by a restricted list containing items importable under
conditions specified in the Annual Import Policy Order. Under the new
provisions, all imports have been freed except those subject to the negative
or restricted lists. This constitutes a major liberalization of the import
regime. The restricted list consists of three components. The first com-
ponent lists the banned items that are importable by established exporters
and foreign exchange-earning hotels. This part duplicates a part of the
negative list that applies to export activities. The second component lists
items that require prior permission for import. These include seeds,
insecticides, chemicals for explosives, drugs and chemicals for drugs and
similar items. The third component lists items that are only importable by
registered industrial enterprises, up to the values specified in their
passbooks. The negative list was introduced only in FY86, and there have
been problems associated with both its coverage and the administrative arran-
gements for import procedures. A special commission was appointed to resolve
the problems of transition and facilitate orderly import procedures. The
FY87 Import Policy Order liberalizes imports further by shortening the nega-
tive and restricted lists. Restrictions on 140 items have been lifted,
including diesel engines, trucks, buses and inputs for the electric goods
industry. The number of restricted spare parts items for the jute and tex-



tile industries has beer. reduced by 537. In terms of four-digit ITC
categories, the negative tist has been reduced from 389 categories to 321
categories (out of a total ot 1192), an 18% reduction.   Finally, part of
the restricted list pertaining to commerciaL importers has been eliminated.
However, the restricted list, which limits the import of certain raw
materials to industrial users only, still pena.izes thousands of small and
cottage industries which have to import their raw materials indirectly
through commercial importers. The Government intends to continue reducing
the negative and restricted lists in the following phased manner: (a) the
restricted list for industrial imports will be eliminated by reducing the
number of items on the list in three approximately equal annual steps begin-
ning in FY88 so that by FY90 all industrial inputs will also be importable by
commercial importers; and (b) the import liberalization will continue by
reducing the number of categories in the negative list by about 20% per year,
which would be comparable to the reductions in FY86, and in this process,
priority will be given to the items in textile and steel and engineering
sectors such that all such items will be eliminated from the negative list
within three years. The implementation of these reductions in FY88 will be a
condition for release of the credit's second tranche.
63.     Bangladesh's import and customs clearance procedures are extremely
lengthy and complex. Under an ongoing UNDP-financed study, preliminary
recommendations have been made to simplify customs valuation and clearance
procedures, and the National Board of Reve.nue (NBR) has done additional work.
The Government has prepared a summary of the reform measures identified in
these reports and will reach an agreement with IDA on an action program to
adopt these proposals by September 1987.
64.     Identification of Alternative Revenue Sources.  Although the primary
purpose of import duties is to protect domestic industries, another major
objective has been to earn revenues for the Government. Currently more than
55% of total Government revenues in Bangladesh come from tariffs and sales
taxes levied solely on imports. At the same time, the scope for increasing
Government revenues from other taxes is limited, at least in the short run.
Despite efforts to increase public revenue through cost recovery measures and
increased user charges, the Government continues to face severe constraints
on public revenues. There is thus little ready alternative to the revenues
from import duties, placing a major constraint on more cc.aprehensive tariff
reform.
65.     Some revenue losses due to across-the-board tariff reductions can be
offset by eliminating QRs on imports, enabling a higher volume of dutiable
imports. There are, however, major short-term constraints to increasing the
volume of imports because of the pressures of Bangladesh's already tight
external position during the next few years (para. 18); net foreign exchange
availability is projected, at best, to stay constant in real terms.
66.     To address this problem, IDA has started a series of joint studies
with the Government on the prospects for expanding the tax base. A prelimi-



-22-
nary study on taxation of agriculture has already been completed. A joint
IDA-IMF tax mission visited Bangladesh in December 1986 to develop alterna-
tive tax sources to reduce the dependence on trade taxes. The Government has
also commissioned a series of studies on different aspects of domestic
resource mobilization. On the basis of this work, the Government and IDA
expect to develop a comprehensive program to reduce the reliance on customs
duties as the main revenue source which would be supported by a structural
adjustment credit in FY89. Implementation of the tax reform program will
start in FY88, enabling the Government to offset revenue losses of the first
year of tariff reductions supported under this credit, which are expected to
be about 1% of tax revenues or around US$12 million. The maximum total
revenue loss due to tariff reductions in the textiles and the steel and
engineering subsectors is projected to be 2.5X of tax revenues or around
US$30 million at the end of three years without taking into account increased
imports as a result of removal of bans.   Over the next three yer-s, reforms
under the comprehensive tax program are expected to offset further tariff
cuts under this credit as well as permit further tariff rationalization in
other sectors under a possible Second Industrial Sector Credit (FY90).
C. Investment Sanctioning
67.     Private investment in Bangladesh is subject to approval by various
agencies depending on the sector, investment size and what the investor seeks
from the Government. The investment sanctioning process has gradually been
decentralized, and many agencies, including banks and other financial
institutions, have been given the right to sanction projects. Despite
decentralizaticn, investment sanctioning continues to create delays.
Furthermore, the approval process for long-term loans from the banking system
adds further delays. To minimize the problems encountered in undertaking
investments, "free sectors" were introduced in July 1980. Firms within the
free sectors can, without sanctioning, begin construction and use their own
local currency to buy foreign exchange from the secondary market to import
machinery. Free sector investments financed through the secondary market
have been primarily in ready-made garments, fish processing, printing and
publishing, synthetic textiles and pharmaceuticals, while investments in
heavy industries (chemicals, ceramics, paper) have been financed solely by
long-term credits through the official market. Furthermore, since 1980
private investment in manufacturing has more than doubled, and all growth
has come from investments undertaken in the free sectors.
68.     The main objective of discussions during preparation of this credit
has been to liberalize the investment sanctioning system further by extending
the scope of the free sectors. In accord with understAmrd4ngs reached during
preparation of the proposed credit, the Government issued a Revised
Industrial Policy in June 1986 which included the folil;.ing provisions to
liberalize the investment sanctioning system substantially:
(a) The Investment Schedule issued periodically by the Government
specifies priority sectors, the quantity of investments that should



-23-
be undertaken in each of these sectors and sanctioning rules.
Because these investment targets have been unrealistic and not bind-
ing on private investors, they have not served their intended
purpose. However, financial institutions have tended to follow the
Investment Schedule in making lending decisions rather than conduct-
ing meaningful pvoject appraisals. Under the revised policy the
Investment Schedule wiLl be indicative and contain only a set of
general guidelines for assisting investment decisions without quan-
titative specifications on additional capacity.
(b) Unless there is a specific reason for not allowing investment in
certain industries, all industries should be treated as free sectors
not requiring approval. Decisions on credit to finance these invest-
ments should be based on financial institutions' and investors' own
appraisals. The Revised Industrial Policy reserves only seven
industries for the public sector. These are power generation and
transmission, arms and ammunition, atomic energy, telecommunications,
air transportation, mechanized forestry, currency printing and
minting. In addition, the Government has issued a short list of
discouraged industries, in which there are either environmental
constraints (i.e., deep sea trawling) or very serious over-capacity
(i.e., jute carpets), where prior nermission is required. All other
industries (125 out of a total of 144) are now treated as free sec-
tors which do not require prior approval if the investments are
funded from investors' own resources (including short term bank
funding).
(c) The requirement that all investments in industries using more than
20% imported inputs must be approved by the Investment Board has been
relaxed by increasing the imported input limit to 50%.
(d) Currently, when financial institutions give term loans for industrial
projects, the projects are considered "sanctioned." However, there
are size limits on the financial institutions' sanctioning authority.
These size limits have been increased significantly to US$1 million
for comrnercial banks and to US$2 million for DFIs and will continue
to be increased over trime. Approximately 90% of investments should
now come under these Limits. This gradual approach has been adopted
primarily because of financial institutions' weaknesses in appraising
industrial term loans.
69.     However, liberalization or investment sanctioning before lending
institutions' appraisal capacit;es are improved and distortions in the incen-
tive framework are eliminated mighr Lead to investments with high financial
but low economic returns. Liberalization of investment sanctioning is there-
fore being closely coordinated With elimination of the distortions in the
system of protecLion (paras. 55-63) as well as improvements in the capacities
of the two development finance institutions (paras. 81-99). The Government
also intends to develop a longer-term program of financial sector reforms
with TDA's assistance during FY88.



-24-
D. Public Sector Industrial Enterprises
70.     Bangladesh now has about 160 public sector industrial enterprises
under six main industrial sector corporations controlled administratively by
three different ministries. Each industrial PSE is controlled by a public
corporation, wh.ch in turn is supervised by its ministrv. The functional
ministries (Finance, Planning, Labor, etc.) exercise control by orders and
directives issued through the administrative ministries, and thus che
Government retains all major decision-making powers.
71.     Although it nationalized almost all large-scale industrial
enterprises in 1972, the Government subsequently, especially after 1975, has
tried to encourage the private sector to play the lead role in industrial
development while reducing the public sector's role and improving its
performance. Under the NIP, the Government aimed to improve PSEs' perfor-
mance by: (i) reducing the role of public sector through denationalization of
previously Bangladeshi-owned jute and textile mills and disinvestment of
abandoned units; (ii) restructuring the capital of and physically
rehabilitating retained units; (iii) giving PSEs autonomy in setting prices;
(iv) awarding management contracts to run large, poorly performing units;
(v) selling up to 49% of the shares in PSEs to the general public; and
(vi) giving enterprise boards more autonomy in PSE operations. The Revised
Industrial Policy announced in July 1986 reiterated the Government's commit-
ment to these objectives.
Reducing the Role of Public Sector
72.     New Investments.    The Government has reduced the number of
industries reserved for the public sector to seven and decided that future
growth in industry will come through expansion of the private sector. This
policy has been followed since late 1970s; only about 15-20% of the Annual
Development Programs have been allocated to PSEs, mainly for completion,
rehabilitation and modernization of existing units. Large new investments
have been made only in fertilizer production, where the availability of
natural gas gives Bangladesh a comparative advantage.
73.     Denationalization.    Bangladesh has carried out one of the largest
denationalization/disinvestment programs in the world by transferring about
650 industrial enterprises to the private sector. The Government has also
announced that it will continue the process of divestiture as well as selling
shares of remaining firms.
74.     Restructuring   Divestment/denationalization policies have
facilitated a major reorganization and consolidation of PSEs, which has been
accompanied by a process of capital restructuring and rehabilitation of
industrial sector corporations. During FY81-85 reviews of capital and debt
structure of six industrial corporations by the Finance Division led to
conversion of about Tk. 4.5 billion from debt to equity and Tk 480 milliion
from debt to grants. In addition, during this period there was a cash infu-



-25-
sion of about Tk 3.8 billion as additional equity. In the same vein, Zia
and Chittagong Fertilizer Companies have been brought under the management of
the Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation which now operates all fer-
tilizer factories in Bangladesh. The proposed reorganization of jute and
textile industries is being supported under IDA technical and financial
assistance. Mills under these two corporations are being physically restruc-
tured under the seme IDA projects. The Government has also signed a manage-
ment contract with a multinational company to run Bangladesh Machine Tool
Factory, a large ailing unit.
75.     As a result of these measures, the public sector's share of fixed
assets in the modern manufacturing sector has declined to about 40% from
about 90% in 1972. During FY80-FY85 the sector corporations generated a
surplus in three of the five years. The big losses suffered by the Jute
Mills Corporation in FY82 and FY85 completely offset the surpluses of other
corporations as well as surpluses in other years, leaving these corporations
with an average loss of Tk 19 million on average annual sales of
Tk 20 billion. Despite these losses the net profit to sales ratio improved
to -0.1% during FY80-85, compared to -7.4% during the previous five years.
However, primarily due to the collapse of jute prices, net profit to sales
ratio has declined to -4.2% in FY85 and -9.8Z in FY86.
76.     Increasing the Efficiency of PSEs.    Despite significant preparatory
work, very little has been accomplished on the important issue of enterprise
autonomy, which is the key to improving the performance of PSEs. Under the
proposed credit, the basic objective would be to improve PSEs' operational
efficiency through enhancing enterprise autonomy while establishing clearer
accountability and performance criteria and improving central monitoring of
their activities. To achieve this objective the Ministries of Finance and
Industries initiated a UNDP-financed project entitled Development of
Performan.ce Evaluation and Financial MIS Systems for Autonomous Bodies in
1984. A Monitoring Cell attached to the Finance Ministry's Autonomous Bodies
Wing (ABW) is responsible for project execution, which is coordinated by a
committee chaired by the Secretary, Finance Division. The project is
developing comprehensive indicators of public enterprise performance to
analyze their macro-economic impact for policy decisions. It will also
develop a system of performance evaluation for PSEs, taking into account both
commercial and social objectives to ensure meaningful control by the corpora-
tions and administrative ministries while maintaining essential enterprise
autonomy. In addition to this project, institutional and legal changes are
needed to operationalize the new system being developed.
77.     Institutional and Legal Mechanisms.  In November 1985 the Government
constituted a Council Committee on Public Enterprises (CCPE) chaired by the
President to consider issues pertaining to PSE operations. The CCPE decided
that a Public Corporations (Management Coordination) Ordinance was needed to
provide more autonomy to the PSEs in their operations and to facilitate
effective monitoring of their performance.  The Ordinance, promulgated in



-26-
June 1986, limits Government intervention in the enterprises' operations by
giving their Boards the right to decide on personnel, production and pricing
matters and adopts the principle that firms will be compensated for financial
losses incurred because of Government intervention.
78.     The Monitoring Cell temporarily attached to the ABW is currently
implementing the UNDP-assisted project to develop performance evaluation and
financial MIS systems for PSEs. The Monitoring Cell was built up during
Phase I of the project (July 1984-June 1986) and now includes 13 full-time
professional and 15 support staff. Both local and overseas training has been
either given or is planned for all cell members and appropriate ABW staff to
prepare them for their future role. By September 30, 1987, the Monitoring
Cell within the ABW will be strengthened further, both in terms of personnel
and skills, so that by the end of Phase II a system of performance evaluation
may be recommended for general adoption. The Monitoring Cell would initially
assist the ABW in setting targets as well as monitoring and evaluating the
performance.
79.     The ABW is also to be strengthened and will take over the functions
of the Monitoring Cell currently implementing the project and assist the
target-setting process among ministries, corporations and enterprises as well
as supply technical support for monitoring and evaluation.
80.     Implementation.' The Covernment selected two enterprises--North
Bengal paper Mills Ltd. and General Electric Manufacturing Company Ltd.--for
a pilot exercise for the implementation of the new performance evaluation
system. Performance goals were developed by a task force comprising repre-
sentatives of the PSEs, the Monitoring Cell and representatives from relevant
corporations and ministries. Enterprise revenue budgets for FY87 consistent
with the performance goals were also prepared. Only North Bengal Paper Mills
has actually implemented the new system. The Monitoring Cell conducted a
mid-year evaluation of actual results and established performance targets for
the period July 1986-June 1988. By July 31, 1987, the enterprise will submit
reports to the Monitoring Cell describing its actual achievements in the
specified performance areas. By September 1987, the enterprise will also
submit copies of its audited accounts, and the Monitoring Cell will prepare
evaluation reports, which would rate performance on individual goals as well
as prepare a consolidated overall performance measure using pre-specified
weights. This system will be extended to at least three additional PSEs in
FY88. This program would be used, together with the ongoing UNDP-financed
project, to extend the performance evaluation system to all industrial PSEs
under a possible Second Industrial Sector Credit (FY90).
E. Financial Sector Issues
81.     Continued rapid industrial expansion will require support from an
efficiently functioning financial system as well as policy and institutional



-27-
reforms along the lines discussed in the preceding section. Unfortunately,
Bangladesh's banking system, especially the DFIs, is experiencing serious
problems which, if not corrected, could undermine the Government's industrial
reform program. The system faces a short-term crisis because recovery rates
for both industrial and agricultural term loans have fallen to unacceptably
low levels. This lack of credit discipline impedes efficient allocation of
investment resources, vitiates the effectiveness of interest rate management,
restricts the volume of new loans that can be made consistent with monetary
policy objectives, and undermines the DFIs' financial viability. There are
also longer term issues concerning the banking system's structure, legal
framework, management and supervision which need to be addressed if it is to
perform efficiently.
82.     In Bangladesh the two DFIs--the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) and
Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha (BSRS)-have been the main source of term
loans for industry, while the nationalized commercial banks (NCBs) have only
engaged in a limited amount of term lending to small and medium industries,
mainly through their participation in IDA and ADB-financed projects. Because
of their small size and recent establishment, the private banks' industrial
lending has been quite limited.
83.     The proposed credit would, therefore, include measures to increase
recovery rates for industrial term loans by the DFIs and the three NCBs
participating in IDA-financed small industries projects as well as measures
to strengthen the DFIs institutionally and financially. These measures
complement actions implemented under the Thirteenth Imports Program Credit
(Cr. 1655-BD) to improve the recovery of agricultural loans. The Government
intends to develop a broader and longer term program of financial sector
reforms with IDA's assistance during PY87 and FY88.
84.     Origins of the Recovery Problem.  The DFIs' loan recovery rates
deteriorated sharply during the early 1980s. For example, the DFIs' cash
collection rates as percentages of payments due (including overdues) declined
from 35-40% in late 1970s to 9% in FY86. Similarly, the repayment rates for
NCB loans under the two ongoing IDA-financed small industries projects have
also been unsatisfactory, declining from 23% in FY84 to 19% in FY86. This
poor recovery performance is due to a variety of factors. The banks have
weak appraisal capacities, limited managerial autonomy and generally followed
government directives to channel credit into targeted sectors without due
regard to projects' viability. Moreover, many projects experienced start-up
problems, delaying repayment capacities, and the banks exercised no
flexibility in restructuring such loans. Large real devaluations have sub-
stantially increased the debt burden of loans denominated in foreign
exchange. The Government's denationalization program (para. 35) has been
another source of difficulty; because of the program's speed and scale, there
was inadequate attention to clarifying the obligations to be assumed by the
new private owners. Consequently, DFI loans to many denationalized
enterprises have been disputed on both the accuracy of DFIs' calculations of
borrowers' obligations and their liability for debts incurred when the



-28-
enterprises were publicly owned. Finally, the genuine problems encountered
by many enterprises have been used as an excuse by a group of willful defaul-
ters not to repay their loans.
85.     DFI Action Program.    The Government has committed itself to address
these problems.  UNDP-financed consultants conducted an Institutional Review
and Portfolio Audit on the two DFIs during 1984-85. IDA and other donors,
which have provided most of the funds for DFI lending in Bangladesh, withheld
commitments to finance new industrial credit projects, pending this study's
outcome. In March 1985, the Government signed a Memorandum of Understanding
with the principal donors (IDA, ADB, KFW and UNDP) and announced an Action
Program in June 1985, to strengthen the DFIs and improve loan recovery. The
key elements of the Action Program involve enhancing the DFIs' managerial
autonomy and legal powers, restructuring their finances, strengthening their
internal organization and procedures, restructuring problem projects and
applying a variety of pressures on defaulters.
86.     Implementation of the Action Program has been uneven, and only slow
progress has been made in improving loan collections. In April 1986 the
donors formally reviewed implementation of the Action Program with the
Government, and a second portfolio audit to reassess the provisions for bad
and doubtful debts was completed in May 1986. In July 1986 a joint IDA and
ADB mission reviewed the audit reports and reached broad agreement with the
Government on bad debt provisions, restructuring plans and collection
targets. The measures implemented under the Action Program to increase
collections were also evaluated. As a result of these discussions, the
Action Program was essentially revised and up-dated. The following sections
highlight the program's key measures.
87.     Establishment of Credit Discipline.    The DFIs require several kinds
of support from the Government if their own recovery efforts are to succeed.
Many defaulters have refused to repay the DPIs because of disputes about
their liabilities (para. 84). The Government has taken two steps to resolve
these disputes. First, a committee was established in late 1985 to review
disputes raised by borrowers, especially regarding the calculation of adjust-
ments under the Government's Exchange Fluctuation Absorption Scheme (EFAS).
The committee's report, issued in May 1986, endorsed the DFIs' contentions in
almost all cases and recommended approaches to reach accommodations with
categories of borrowers such as jute mill owners. Second, after several
adjustments of the scheme, June 30, 1986 was established as the closing date
for borrowers to accept proposed EFAS adjustments, and the Government
announced that no further concessions would be granted. These actions have
substantially reduced the ambiguities regarding many defaulters' obligations.
88.     An important element of the Government's recovery strategy has been
to deny DFI defaulters access to privileges and facilities such as approval
of new investment projects and sponsorships of'companies. The most effective
sanction has been an instruction to banks not to extend new term credits to



-29-
defaulters identified by the DFIs (jute mills were exempted because of the
financial problems experienced by this sector, which is economically very
important because it generates about 40% exports, and there have been other
selective exceptions in individual cases). In August 1986 Bangladesh Bank
instructed the banks to stop all credits to defaulters unless they obtain
certificates of no objection from the DFIs.
89.     The DFIs' Charters empower them to take over defaulters' projects
without recourse to the courts. In practice Government clearance has been
required before they can take action in specific cases. During late 1985 and
early 1986 the Government took several months to review requests to proceed
against several defaulters but approved only two cases. However, in mid-1986
requests to take over ninety defaulters' projects were approved
expeditiously, and action has already been taken against most of them.
90.     The DFIs have also initiated legal cases against numerous defaulters.
However, in addition to delays due to defaulters' legal maneuvers, the
processing of these cases is often slow because of administrative bottlenecks
in the legal system., The Ministry of Law, in consultation with the Ministry
of Finance, will review the status of all legal cases initiated by the DFIs
and identify measures to expedite their processing. In addition, a new Loan
Recovery Act has been prepared and is expected to be submitted to Parliament.
91.     PSEs accounted for 18% of BSRS's arrears at the end of FY86, in
contrast to only 2% of BSB's arrears. Three PSEs were responsible for 75% of
BSRS's public sector arrears; all three companies dispute their liabilities.
The Government has reviewed the status of arrears and is working with the
PSEs to establish repayment schedules. The arrears of these PSEs to BSRS
will be eliminated over the next two years, i.e. by July 1968.
92.     Although various processes have been initiated under the Action
Program to improve the recovery of industrial term loans, it is also neces-
sary to establish target recovery levels for the DFIs and for NCB loans under
the two ongoing IDA-financed small industries projects (Cr. 825-BD and
1065-BD) and to provide tangible measures of progress. The DFI targets are
based on detailed analyses of the collection prospects and seasonality in
actual collections for all loans in their portfolios, assuming that the
Government provides the kinds of support discussed above. The targets have
been set as absolute amounts of cash collections; collection ratios are
misleading because of the accumulation of interest and penalties and the
large amounts of doubtful debt in their portfolios. Separate targets have
been established for private borrowers and PSEs. Total collections for the
two DFIs are targeted to increase from Tk 761 million in FY86 to Tk 1,270
million in FY87, baped on a 75% increase in collections from private bor-
rowers and a 35% increase in payments from PSEs. If these targets were met,
the DFIs' combined collection ratio would increase from 9% in FY86 to 13% in
FY87 and 18% in FY88. However, in terms of collections of current dues only,
the collection ratio would increase from 25% in FY86 to 40% in FY87 and 50%
in FY88.
J



-30-
93.     Similar analyses were made of the project loans of the three NCBs
participating in the ongoing IDA-financed small industries projects. Their
combined targets imply an increase in their cash collections of about 300%
to Tk 99 million in FY87. If this target is met, their annual aggregate
collection ratio will increase from 19% in FY86 to 33% in FY81 and 46% in
FY88.
94.     The targets have been set on a monthly basis starting in July 1,
1986. The DFIs and NCBs met the targets established for the period from
July 1, 1986 until March 31, 1987. Achievement of the two DFIs' combined
cash collection target and of the three NCBs' combined cash collection target
for the period from January 1 through December 31, 1987, will be a condition
for release of the second tranche. During the period of January 1-
December 31, 1987, the DFIs will need to collect a minimum of
Tk. 1,370 million and the NCBs, a minimum of Tk. 136 million.
95.     Institutional and Financial Rehabilitation of the DFIs.   In addition
to short-term measures to improve credit discipline, the Action Program
provides for the medium-term institutional and financial rehabilitation of
the DFIs. These measures will be monitored under the proposed credit, and
satisfactory implementation of specific provisions will be conditions for
release of the second tranche.
96.     DPI Autonomy.  The DFIs' charters provided them with insufficient
autonomy, and the Government had become excessively involved in operational
matters, lowering their efficiency and inhibiting their ability to make
independent decisions about loans. In consultation with IDA and ADB the
Government has enacted revised charters for both DPIs. The revised charters
enable 49X private shareholding, including by foreign parties, and provide
greater autonomy to the DPI Boards and managements.
97.     Financial Restructuring.  As a result of the problems experienced by
a number of projects, the extension of many loans on the basis of inadequate
appraisals and the cumulative burden of interest on arrears, penalties, and
devaluations, the DFIs' portfolios include substantial levels of doubtful
debt. However, at the beginning of FY86 provisions for bad and doubtful debt
represented only 12X of BSB's portfolio and 15X of BSRS's portfolio. The
consultant study included an audit of their portfolios, and the Government
commissioned a second audit to reassess the provisions recommended by the
consultants. On the basis of these audits and discussions with IDA and ADB,
the Government has decided to increase BSB's level of provisions to the
equivalent of 34% of its portfolio as of June 30, 1985, and BSRS's provisions
to the equivalent of 55% of its portfolio on that date. About half of the
provisions were included in FY86 financial statements, and the remaining
provisions will be included in the financial statements for FY87. As a
result of these provisions the DFIs' financial positions will deteriorate
sharply. The Government intends to recapitalize the DFIs, primarily by



-31-
converting Government loans into equity, in order to maintain their
debt/equity ratios at no more than 3:1.
98.     In addition to the aggregate adjustments, the auditors recommended
that provisions be made for most loans. Over the next 12 to 18 months the
DFIs will review their portfolios to assess the future income-generating
ability of each loan and as appropriate, reschedule individual loans and
selectively write off loan amounts which do not have realistic prospects of
being serviced. These developments will be monitored continuously and
evaluated in January 1988.
99.     Institutional Strengthening of the DFIs.  The DFIs require additional
technical assistance to enable them to strengthen their portfolio
rehabilitation, loan collection and supervision, appraisal functions and
accounting and personnel systems. Terms of reference for this assistance
have been agreed in principle, and UNDP funding is being arranged.
Initiation of the technical assistance program will be a condition of second
tranche release.
PART V - THE CREDIT
100.    The proposed credit would be the first IDA credit supporting the
Government's program of policy and institutional adjustments in the
industrial sector. The development of this program and the reforms which
would be supported under the proposed credit are described in Part IV of this
report. A timetable of key events relating to the credit and special condi-
tions of the credit are listed in Annex III. The proposed credit was
appraised during March 1986.  Negotiations were held in Washington during
April 6-14, 1987. The Government of Bangladesh was represented by a delega-
tion led by Dr. A. H. Sahadat Ullah, Member, Planning Commission.
Procurement and Disbursement
101.    The proposed credit of US$190 million equivalent would finance about
4.8% of Bangladesh's total merchandise imports and about 7.9% of the gross
capital inflows over the disbursement period (third quarter of 1987 until
fourth quarter of 1988). In view of Bangladesh's severe balance of payments
and budgetary resource constraints, the funds to be provided under the
proposed credit would be used to finance imports of any goods other than
those specified in a shortlist of ineligible items. Imports directly
financed from other scurces would not be eligible for IDA financing. Not
more than 25% of the proceeds of the credit would be used to finance the
import of any commodity or group of commodities falling within a single
two-digit Division of the Standard International Trade Classification (SITC),
Revision 2. Disbursements would be fully documented except in respect of
small contracts for less than $50,000 equivalent, which would be on certified
Statements of Expenditures with the relevant support documentation retained



-32-
by Bangladesh Bank fnd made available for review by IDA representatives
during Supervision Missions. Credit withdrawals based Statements of
Expenditure would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association.
102.     Procurement would be limited to goods from countries eligible under
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Both public and private sector
imports would be eligible for financing. Except for proprietary items, all
imports costing the equivalent of US$2,000,000 or more would be procured
under contracts awarded after International Competitive Bidding (ICB). IDA
would review procurement decisions after such contracts have been signed and
prior to the first payment in respect of such contracts from the special
account to be established by Bangladesh Bank for the credit. Non-proprietary
items costing less than US$2,000,000 equivalent could be procured through
normal procurement procedures for such purchases, which generally include the
invitation of quotations from no fewer than three suppliers. Contracts for
commonly traded commodities could be awarded on the basis of price quotations
available from organized international commodity markets. Contracts for
proprietary items or equipment, subject to domestic standardization regula-
tions endorsed by IDA, could be let on a negotiated basis, but the award of
such contracts would be subject to prior approval by IDA, if individual
contract value exceeds US$200,000 equivalent, up to an overall ceiling of
US$20,000,000 equivalent. IDA would conduct a post disbursement review of
all contracts signed with values exceeding US$500,000 equivalent and would
conduct similar reviews of all other contracts on a random basis.
103.     Disbursements would be made against 100% of the foreign exchange
costs of eligible imports against  iithdrawal applications prepared by
Bangladesh Bank. Expenditures made prior to credit signing, but after
March 1, 1987, in respect of eligible imports, would be eligible for retroac-
t,ve financing, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$19 million. It is
expected that the proposed credit would be fully disbursed within about
18 months. A special account of US$30 million equivalent would be estab-
lished in Bangladesh Bank for the proposed credit for the purpose of
prefinancing all eligible items. In order to support the Government of
Bangladesh's policy of liberalizing its foreign exchange market system, the
proceeds of the credit would be used to finance expenditures through the
secondary foreign exchange market (para. 37).
Tranching
104.     The proceeds of the proposed credit would be made eligible for
withdrawal in two tranches. The first tranche equivalent to US$100 million
would be released when the proposed credit becomes effective. The second
tranche, equivalent to US$90 million, would be releaRed subject to IDA being
satisfied, following a review by January 31, 1988, that the Government is
following sound industrial sector policies, including meeting the specific
conditions listed in Annex III.



-33-
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
105.    In the last year, IDA and the IMF have jointly prepared and nego-
tiated with the Government a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) (discussed by the
Committee of the Whole on January 29, 1987) which sets out the Government's
policy objectives for the medium-term (para. 12). Following this, a three-
year Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) was approved by the IMF Board on
February 6, 1987, and SDR 58 million was disbursed pursuant to the first
annual arrangement under this facility. The SAF covers the period FY87-89
and total access is now projected at SDR 154 million; benchmarks for the
implementation of the Government's medium-term program, outlined in the PFP,
are to be agreed annually by the Government, IMP and IDA, and those for FY88
are currently being prepared. In February 1987, Bangladesh also received SDR
89 million under the Compensatory Financing Facility in respect of an export
shortfall primarily of jute and jute products in the year ended September
1986. These funds were in addition to the SDR 180 million made available
under the current Stand-by Arrangement, approved by the IMF Board in December
1985, for the period of December 1985 to June 1987.
106.    These IMF resources have been made available to support the com-
prehensive adjustment policies initiated by the Government in 1985, which
were subsequently developed into the medium-term structural adjustment
program in the PFP. Macro-economic management improved substantially in PY86
and FY87 and is broadly in line with that envisaged under the program. As a
result, the deficits on the crrrent account of the balance of payments and
the budget have been reduced to manageable lev,els. In addition, in late FY87
the Government initiated serious efforts to restore discipline in the domes-
tic financial markets. Under the medium-term program supported by the SAF,
the Government will endeavor to raise the annual GDP growth rate to at least
5%, reduce inflation to 7% by the end of the three-year period, limit the
external current account deficit to about 7% of GDP, and maintain the level
of gross international reserves at above two and a half months of imports.
To achieve these objectives, the Government will pursue restrained demand
management, raise domestic savings and improve resource allocation. The
latter measures will include reforms in tax policy and administration and the
financial management of public enterprises, as well as further strengthening
of loan recovery efforts in the agricultural and industrial sectors
107.    Bank-Fund collaboration in the policy dialogue with Government has
been close. IDA's objective under its policy based lending, such as the
Thirteenth Import Program Credit (Credit 1655-BD), have been coordinated with
IMF programs under the Stand-by Arrangement and are also reflected in the
Policy Framework Paper. In the past year, IMF staff have also participated
in IDA missions on tax policy and financial policy, and are assisting in the
preparation of reports on these subjects.



-34-
PART VII -'rECOIIhINDhflON
108.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recoimend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
D. B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
May 13, 1987



-35-
- ~~~zc  WICA?~~~~~S ~Pes. I of 3
Mid-1985 PopuLatLco WUll.)    101
1985 Pot Capita mW te 118$:    10
A. Sharm of Oross Domestic PVoduct                      D. Growth Rates (2 p  ar aiui)
(fzee murrnt pxico data)                                (frmee ostant pric  data)
19o5    1973    198       1984     9p 198     6. m       1965-73 1973-80  1980-84    1985p   1986.
Gross Domestic Product c.p.       100      1o0      z00     100      100      100                0      57       3.5     4.1       3.9
Not Indirect Tam*s              3.1     2.4      5.2     5.4      5.2      5.1..                       .
Agriculture                    52.8    57.9    50.3    48.4    50.1    45.1                 O.;      3.4        3     1'.8      2.9
Industry                       10.7    10.1    14.9    14.6    14.2    13.6                -6.1    11.9       4.2     6.1       2.7
(of which Manufacturing)       5.4      6.4      9.9     8.8      8.3       ..-1.9    13.3                    1.8     3.2
Services                       36.5      32    34.8        37    35.7    41.3               1.5      7.4      3.9     6.3       5.8
Resource Balance                 -3.7        1    -0.7   -11.l   -10.2    48.7                   .        .
Esports of 08FS        ~~~~      ~~9.7  6  5.6    6.1     6.1      6.4             -13       17       6.      21        34
inportsof WRS                 13.4 5%             14.3    17.2    16.3    15.1             -3.9      9.3      5.2     7.6       -20
Total Expenditures               103.7      99 108.7   111.1   110.2   108.7                  -0.3      6.3      3.6     4.9       0.4
Total Cautuoption              92.2    90.1    97.5    98.8    96.9    95.6                 0.3      6.8      4.1     4.1       0.2
Private Cansmntica          83.2      86    91. 3    91.9    89.2    87.5                  .        .
Cenaral Govoeuut             9.1       4      6.2      6.9     7.7      8.2                .        .
rowss Domestic Investment      11.5     8.9    11.3    12.3    13.3    13.1                -5.4        3    -0.1    12.1        2.3
FLxed Inwsntm               11.5       .        .       .        .       .                 .       .
CAngsO In StoCk..                      .        .       .        ..       ...                       .
Gross Domatic Saving              7.8      9.9      2.5      1.2     3.1      4.4               ..     -1.5   -30.9   128.5    179.2
Net Factor   om0.1                      0.3      0.1    -0.5    -0.4    -0.5                  .       .
ntie Currelat Transfers          .       ..      1.6      3.9     2.5      3.8                .       .
Gross National Saving                               * . .  .S  4.7   5.1      7.7               ..     27.4    .0.3'   -9.5'       117
In millwon   f L4U's            1965    1973    198       1984    1985p   1986.
(at Constant 1980 prices)        ----    ----      -
Gross Dmomstic Pro"uc           135     135      19      230      239      249                0      5.7      3.5     4.1       3.9
Capaity to lapot                14       13       11       13      15       13             -4.7      1.4      3.7    14.7      -9.9
Ten, of TradeAdjustmeant         6        2        0       -2       1       -1                .        .
Gross DOstio locales            141     135      198      228     240      247             -0.4      5:.7     3. 3    5.1       3.1 
Cros National Product           135     134      198      229     258      248                0      S.?      3.3     4.1       3.9
Gross National Inom             141     136      19      227      239      246             -0.4      5.6      3.1     5.1         3
- 100)---------            --     --------Iflatiom Rates (2  a.)----
C. Price Indices*               1Iwo      1 19     1983    194    l9sSp   1906.            1965-73  1973-80 1980-84    I98       1986.
Ccansrer Prices (IFS 64)          100   130.8   143.8   157.8        175       ..8.1    14.5    12.3    10.9
ilbolesale Prices (VFS 63)        100   121.4   128.2   148.9         ..       .                 .     12.9    10.2
Implicit OM Daflator              100   124.4   130.6   152.1   174.9   187.6,                 7.3'   13.4    10.6        1s       7.3
Implicit. Napeditures Deflator    100   129.3   135.1   154.4   174.5   191.2                  7.7    13.7    11.1    13.1         9.5
0. Other Indicators                    196573            1973-80          1980-8SP
-----                       -----..                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Notes:
Growth Rates (X p.a.):
Population                              2.6              2.4               2.6         Patu on the DcomicA  indicators tables
Labor Force                              ...                                 .should foll., the definitins and
Gross National Income p.c.             -2. 9              3.1I               1         caonpts of the fteadard Tables and
Private Consuiption P.C.                  ...                                           tiandard Attachmets. Mme ivdicators
should imlwo- iata. thra18h the most
Import Elasticity:                                                                        recetaly car .t0d Calaudar Fewt (or
Import (Om$) I -W Cap)               .145.9              1.6               1.3         fiscal year in the case of fiscal year
countries).- Staff estimetes aWbe used
Marginal Saving Ratess                                                                    if final or prelibmiar  actuals; we not
Gross, Natioael Savin                    .                 .               9.7         Yet available. TMe use of astinmtes and
Gross Domestic $aving                -114.2             -14.6                6         prelminary fipArs shoul be Indicated
by.
IOM (period awera4s):
a - estimated data
uShre of Total                  1t65    1973    31980    19&                                       P p  prelimnar d"at
lAbor Force in:---                           -
Agtuau t.
Total                            .        .



-36-
hoe 1
Page 2 of 3
BWCL*DEW -       IC I3 8TC
Volds  ImIej (1980 - 100):                 Value at Corent Prices (milieon  US$):
E. tarcbm4ise Exports            1980    1982    1983    1984    1985p   1966    1980    1982    1983    1984    198'vp   1986e
Rev Jute                         100.0    97.S   114.3    96.5    71.6   116.9         144     102      110      117     151       124
Tea                             100.0   130.6   128.2   128.2   108.8   124.8          33       38       46       69      61        33
J.eatbmr                        lOD.0   104.7   112.7   123.5    98.0    87.6          66       63       58       85      70        61
9wiap. etc.                     100.0   174.6   231.9   262.7   322.4   392.2          87       53       72       77      87       113
Maufactures                    ) 100.0   115.2   114.6   121.9   123.7   122.1         442     370      401      463      565      488
Other Exports                  )
Total brcbandise Exports FOB    100.0   114.4   121.0   124.5   120.5   131.9    7'22          626      687      811     934       819
F. Nar dtl  lapors
Food                            100.0    49.7    74.2    74.8   100.1    70.6         716      361      473      487     607       367
PM sd Other Ees                 100.0   102.9    85.7    85.4    91.9   109.6    1S3           5U4      411      355     359       355
Other Xqpots
Other CIswllrt Goods        ) 100.0   129.3    95.2   125.6   147.3   123.5         728     980      707      e12    1065       951
Othor 14teradlate Goods    )
Capital Good                  100.0   108.4   117.8   110.1   113.9   120.0        545      615      655      S99     616       691
Total Merchandise Ixpors CIF    100.0    96.2    92.5   100.2   116.5   104.5    2372    2504    2246    2353    2647             2364
0. Ten  of Trade (1980 - 100)    1980    1982    1983    1984    1985P         Ee   -------------------------
_-otes:
Meah. Exports Price indix         100    95.6    95.7   102.5    99.4    98.6
March.  1port Pr I e              100       94    93.7    93.4    88.4    86.3    Data an the Zoaic Inditcators tables
Marchbadise Tans of Trade         100   101.7   102.1   109.7   112.5   114.3    should  ollow the definitions and
aconepts of tbo Standard Tables ad
US$ mllons (at current prices):               Standad Attamts. M Indicators
ohm"- -  --l 4     dat throush the ost
B. Balance of Paymnts            1980    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    recently oahleted calndar Year (or
-________________ - _---        ---      -- _--           ---    fiscal yer  in  he aeof fiscal year
Exorts of Goods and NFS           906      940      987    1043    1195    1040    countries). Staff eatlmtesa sy be used
M ;rchandise (FP)               744     726      783      821     966      819    if final or prelSinary actuals are not
Non-Factor Services             163     214      204      222     229      221    yet avalable. The use of estiats and
PrliminaW fieums abould be indicated
iAports of Goods and N8S         2560    2883    2529    2540    2848    2587    by:
Merchandise (FOB)              2107    2417    2096    2111    2360    2364
Nor-Factor Service              454     466      433      430     488      223    a   stJated data
p *preliminary data
Resource Balance                 -1654   -1943   -1542   -1497   -1653   -1547
Net Factor Thorn                   14      -96    -110      -65              -123
(Intert per MRS)                46       61       68      75       89      106
Not Current Transfers             210      387      593     552       9       s56
(Workers ranittance)              197      368      576     527      364       0
Curran Account Balance          -1430   -1652   -1059   -1010   -1321   -1084
Loos-Taro Capital Infla.          365      529      598     495      531    1169
Direct lnstment                  0        0        0        0       0        0
Officlal Capital Grants         908     669      782      737     700      546
Net LT LoOs (DRS data)          659     620      478      445     455      640
Other LT inflo  (Not)        -1202    -761    -662    -687    -623         -17
Total Other Itrn (net)            875      901      668     739      677       -4
Net Short-toon CapLtal          920     819      687      747     660       -4
Capltal Fiacu N.E.I.             0        0        0        0       0        0
Erors and CUlsios               -45      82      -19       -8      17        0
CiuWs In NVt Reserves             190      222    -207    -224       112      -81
Net Credt fron IM                 4      49       49       20      -6       -3
Other Raserve charges
( - incates incrse)           186      173    -255    -244       119      -78
As sbars of GD:
Resourc Balae                 -12.9   -14.7   -12.7   -10.7   -10.9    -9.9
Interest Payts                 0.4      0.5      0.6     0.5      0.5      0.7
Curret Accont Balane          -11.2   -12.5    -8.7    -7.2    -8.2    -6.9
)  rau. It     :t
inte  atl Reserves (il. US8)     300      183      524     390      337      475
R    1serve la. 0.1d (il. US$)     331     207      546     406      354      475
Offia  X-Rate (LC sUS$)          15.48   20.04    23.76   24.95       26   29.89
Index Ral Bff. XV- Base 1980      100   95.07    94.18   104.47  107.05       ..    ----------------------- --
OF nillOs of awrt us$)    12792   13231   12140   14026   16106   1569



-37-
Psi 3 of 3
3ANADEM - EzUWDc InDIA1m
Share of (QP (1)                                    Gragrkitares (bea.a.)
I. bAdut (specify imil)           198      1982    1983    1984    1985p   1986.                1980 - 83        1984    1983    1986.
Current Receipta                   8.7      8.8      8.8     8.2      8.6      9.1              14.0             12.6    25.6       17.7
Current Es1P.d-AtUre"              6.4      3.6      6.7      6.6     6.6      7.4              16.9             20.0    20.3       11.3
Current Budget Balance             2.3      3.1      2.1      1.6     2.0      1.7               3.1            -10.2   147.6       -7.0
C.Vit,l Receipts                    .         .       .        .        .        ..
Capital Espenditurvs              14.1    11.8    1S3.3    10.7       9.6,     9.0,              a.a               1.0     3. 7     16.5'
Overall Deficit                  -11.8    40.7   -11.2    -9.2    -7.6    -7.3s                  9.7              -1.1    -1.1      -7.6
Official capital Granr           )9.6       7.6      9.8     8.0      6.9      6.7              26.3             -1.3      2.9       9.9
External Borrowing (net)         )0.1                1.2   -0.03      0.9      0.8           )    ..               0.7   -27.7    -14.0
Domestic Non-Beat Finui9L          2.2      9.9      0.2      1.2    -0.2    -0.2 
Domestic Bank Ftianong 
Not Disbursemets (US$ millices)                  Debt Outstainilng 4 Disbursed (US$ .1l.)
J7. External Capital Plows,Debt    ----------------------
and Debt Bntd  anRtina         1980    1982    1983    1984    IM8P   1986.   1980    1982    198             1984    I965p   1986.
Public & Publicly Guarantead LT    659      620      478     443      ASS      640    3549    4449    4885    5155    5968          6672
Official Creditors              660      609      466      449     463       ..     3476    4360    4792    5074    5884
)Ilt$l.teral                305      276      255      336     417       ..     1383    1878    2114    24'13    2886
of Which IIIR               0        0        0        0      -2       ..       55       55       55       55      53
of %hich IDA              156      188      200      246     275       ..      926    1270    1459    1677    199
Bilateral                    354      333      210      113      46       ..     2092    2482    2678    2661    299
PrIv*te Creditors                -1       II       13       -4      -8       ..       73       89       93      81       as
StppLiera                     -7       -4       -1       -2      -4       ..       43       43       40      37       33
Plmsmial Markects              6       14       114     -2       -4       ..       30       46       53       44      48
Private Non-Guaranteed I.?.                   .       .        .        .        0       ..       .        .        .        .0
TOWa LT                            659      620      478     445      453      640    3549    4449    488    .5153    3968          6672
IN Net Credit                       94      107       51     -60       23       ..      269      413      441     SS6      424
Net short-Tem Capital              920      819      687      747     660       -4      212      209      170      133     135       135
eTel Inaludics 1W 1 Not ST        1671    1547    121       1133    1138        ..     403      5070    5496    5644    6526
Bank and MID  Ratios              1980    198       1983    1984    1985p    1986
-----              ----  --   -    ---                                         --notes:
Share of Total Long-Ten DM0
1. IEN  as I of Total             1.53     1.23    1.12    1.07    0.869        ..Data en the Economic Indicators tablesr
2. IMA as I of Total             26.09   10.33    29.8    32.34    33.36        ..bsould follow the definitions  A
S. IB804IDA as I of Total        27.64   29.78    30.99    33.61    34.26       ..concepts of the Standard Tables and
Share of Total LT Debt Services       I                                                     Standard Attacbments. Ihe indicators
1. IBM0 as I of Total             4.03    2.75      3.63     1.8    1. 77       ..should include data through the mast
2. MDA as X of Total              7.15    7.11    7.33    9.15   10.27          ..w*eotly capleted calendar year (or
3. rBR4~DMA, as Z of Total       11.18    9.86   10.95    10.95    11.99        .           fiscal yar ii the Case Of fiscal YOar
conre).  Staff estimates may be used
D00-to-Enports Ratios                                                                       Lf final or preliminary actual. arm not
yet available. The use of estimates end
1. Lons-Term DabtlElmspo        355.74  457.08  481.86  468.68  476.98  618.34              preliminary figures should be Indicated
2. 1W Creatitlapats              26.96   42.39   43.31    32.38   33.815        ..by:
S. Short-Term Debt/Exports       21.25   21.47   16.77   12.09   10.79   12.31
4. LT+M*+Sr DODlEsporta         403.96  520.95  542.14  513.15  521.1 eAe  estimatad data
p =preliminary data
Da-t*-GP Ratios
1. Long-Tens, DebtI00p           27.74   33.6-2  40.24   36.73   37.05   42.72
2. DIf CredtilWP                   2.1    3.12    3.63    2.54    2.63
3. Short-Term DIbtICDP            1.66    1.58      1.4    0.95    0.84    0.86
4. LT,.M4'ST DOD1009              31.5   38.32    45.27    40.24    40.52
Debt serviceIvota
1. Publi & Ogxaataed LT           7.71   12.71   13.33   15.69   17.13   25.57
2. Private Non-Ouzanatee LT         ..       .         .       .        . 
3. Totail LI Debt servIe7.7    12.7    13.33   15.69   17.13   25.571
4. DIV Papurcohas 4. so" Chas.
5. Interes Galy en ST Debt
March 1987



-38-
ANNMX II
Page 1 of 3
TEE STATU8 OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRGL&DBSN IL
A. STATZEMET OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1987)
Amounts
Loan or                                                           (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              U8$ Nillion /b
Numb,er   YXes   Borrover lPurpoe                            Ink        IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 65 credits fully disbursed                      54.90 1,804.50         -
912       1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training               -      25.00        8.96
955       1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                   -      25.00       4.43
964       1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                       -      10.00        0.74
1001       1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II        -      20.00        2.99
1054       1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -       40.00        9.12
1096L&.    1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport              -       25.00       9.65
1140kL    1981  Bangladesh  Rand Tubevells                     -       14.96       2.29
1147k      1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit               -      40.00        7.14
1184kL    1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II        -       27.00      13.50
1204/      1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer        -       15.00       1.38
1205/c     1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -        30.00      25.92
1215       1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II           -       27.00      16.70
1247ki    1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                    -      60.00       62.14
1254lc     1982  Bangladesh Ashuganj Thermal Power             -       92.00      52.78
1262k      1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification             -      40.00       14.49
1287lk     1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                 -      44.17       29.61
1301/c     1983  Bang-ladesh  First Righway Project
(Supplemental)                 -        6.00       0.39
1318kc    1983  Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training           -        7.80       5.36
1321k      1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III            -      35.00       23.68
1349kc    1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                     -      12.00       8.35
1357k      1983  Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation         -      28.50      24.30
1384kL    1983  Bangladesh  Rural Development II               -      100.00      95.63
1396k.L    1983  Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II          -        8.10       6.79
1399Lk     1983  Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                -       20.00      16.78
1402kc    1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -         23.00      11.32
1440/c     1984  Bangladesh  Fifth Teehaical Assistance        -       25.00      28.20
1455kc    1984  Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research       -       24.50      27.92
1467k      1984  Bangladesh  Water Development Board           -       41.50      45.87
1477k      1984  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II        -       23.00      27.77
F0221c     1984  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II        -       22.00      26.61
149O0I     1984  Bangladesh  Technical Education               -       36.00      29.48



-39-
AUNXK II
Page 2 of 3
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Usa*ladesb (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                           (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              1U8$ Million /b
Number     Year   BrxmNr                 PuIr"o               Usk       IDA    D_disbursed
1574/c     1985  Bangladesh  Second Primary Education           -       78.00     88.20
1586Lc     1985  Bangladesh  Second Gas Deveopment              -      110.00    138.46
1587/c     1985  Bangladesfi Flood Rehabilitation               -       30.00      11.70
1591/c     1985  Bangladeshl Third Flood Control & Drainage   -         48.00     59.86
1633k    1986  Bangladesh  Rural Blectrification II            -       79.00     94.37
1634/c    1986  Bangladesh  Second Forestry Project             -       28.00     30.67
1648Lc /d  1986  Bangladesh  Power Trans & Distribution         -       56.00     63.15
1649k.    1986  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health III   -          78.00     91.29
1651/c     1986  Bangladesh  Shrimp Culture                     -       22.00     24.56
1655ic     1986  Bangladesbh Iports Program XIII                -      200.00      95.78
1734c /e  1987  Bangladesh  Dhaks WASA III                      -       30.00     33.94
1749/c Lt  1987  Bangladesh  Refinery Modificatiirn & LPG
Recovery & Distribution         -       47.00     51.43
Total                                                     54.90  3,558.03  1,423.70
of which has been repaid                                 3.81     17.88     -
Total now outatandina                                     S1.09  3.540.1S
Amount sold                                              0.00      0.00
Total now held by Bank ad IjDA                            5109  32540.15
Total undisbursed L/                                                       1.423.70
La  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
lb  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
/c IDA Sixth and Seventh Replenisbmnets Credits denominated in SDRs. The principal
amounts are shown in U.S. dollars equivalent at negotiations as shown in the
President's Reports. The undisbursed amounts are calculated at the rate of exchange
on March 31, 1987.
Li Effective October 14, 1986.
/e Not yet effective.
Lf Difference of $1.3 million between the undisbursed amount of $1,423.70 shown above
and the undisbursed amount shown in Statement of Development Credits at 2/28/87
represents $1.3 million cancelled under Credit 864-JD in February 1987.



-40-
Annex II
Page 3 of 3
D. STATIH-IT OF IFC INBSTU7S (&a gf lurch 31. 1987)
Undisbureed
Balace inc.
Fiscal                                                                             Total Held  Participants'  Undisbursed
Year                                TyDe of Business      Emits Loan    mtIn    byvz      . IPCtio.ao          IFC Portion
1969     aranaphuli Paper Hills Ltd.  Pulp 6 Paper          0.63    5.60    6.23
1979    Highapeed 8bipbuilding 6
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.  Shipbuilding          0.36    1.20     1.56       0.91
1980    industrial Prootion and
Development Company of       DFC
Bangladesh, Ltd.                                   1.05      -      1.05       1.05
1985    Industrial Development        oney 
leasing Co. of Bsngladesh    Capital
(IDLC)                      Market                0.17    2.62     2.79       2.79        I.44             2.44
1985/86 gata Shoe Co.
(Batsladesh) Ltd.           Shoes                 L.S1   4.45   _4AK          IA6  3A.                     1.12
TO-AL                2.T2          I8  1



-41-
Annex III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
Industrial Sector Credit
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
Preparation mission                     May 1985
Pre-appraisal mission                   October 1985
Appraisal mission                        March 1986
Negotiations                             April 6-14, 1$187
Date of Effectiveness (planned)          July 30, 1937
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Condition
It is proposed that the proceeds of the credit be eligible
for withdrawal in two tranches. The first tranche of SDR 77.8 million
(US$ 100 million equivalent) would be released when the proposed credit
becomes effective. SDR 14.9 million (US$ 19 million equivalent) of this
first tranche would be made available on a retroactive basis. The second
tranche of SDR 70.0 million (US$ 90 million equivalent) would be released,
subject to IDA being satisfied, following a review by January 31, 1988, that
the Government is following sound industrial sector policies as well as
meeting the specific conditions listed in Section IV of this Annex.



-42-
page 2
IIIDUSTRI*L SICTOI CR8DIT
Objectives                    Actions AlrUedy Undertaken                            Actions to be Taken Prior to
_Secnd Tranch Re1leas
A. Ex gort Policy             Indication in Fns7 import 4 Rxport Polity Orders
AdEaiZzaLutioa             that "negative list" does not vply to imports
for export production (pars. U .
Ensure free trade sta-
tus for all indirect       Promulgation of revised Orders for  xport
as well as direct          Processiag Zone Authority to enhance its
exporters, improve         autonomy and streamline procedures for
financing & guarantees    securing approval. & utility connection.
available to all           required for new industries in the
exporters, maintain        zone (para. 48).
appropriate exchange
rate & strengthen
institutions whicb
support exports
Creation of Duty Exemption/ Drawback Cell as         Conversion of Duty Xxemption/Drawback
first step in creation of permanent office to        Cell into a permanent office &
design & implemat improved duty exemption 6          initiation of its activities (pars. 47).
drawback systems; assignment of core staff
to cell (para. 47).
Preparation by an inter-agency task force of         initiation of implementation of pro-
proposal to provide incentives to indirect           posals made by task force on incentives
exporters by applying inland back-to-back            for indirect exporters (para. S1).
LIC system to all direct and indirect
exports (para. 51).
Formtion of task force within                        Initiation of implemntation of pro-
Ranglndesh lank an  to preparation of                po"ls by export fineing task force
proposls to improve export                           (pare. 50).
finening to moderise administrative
arragemeats for preshipment financing, create
a foreign excbhge revolving fund to finance
exporters' iports & establisb an automtic
rediscountlng necmbnien for export loas
(para. 50).



-43-
Page 3
Objectives                    Action  Already Undertaken                           Actions to be Taken Prior to
S_ BoMA trenh   le se
Revision of internal quota allocation
policy for 1987-88 (pars. 52)
Establishment of 8sport Monitoring Unit in           satisfactory operation of the Etport
8zport Promotion Dureeu (paro. 52).                  Monitoring Unit for garenat exporte inclo-
din  *asigment of staff, dewlto _et
specifications for periodic publi-
cation of information & distribution
to concerned eprtets (pare. 52).
Strengthening the Export Guarantee schXe  by         Preparation of plan to further strengthen
converting it into a depertuent and increasing       Export Guarntee Schm   bicb would
its capital and staff (para. 49).                    include. as necessary, proposls for
the schee  nd initiation of this
pla (pars. 50).
Naintenance of flexible exchnnge rate policy         Naintenance of flexible exchbge rete policy
to avoid appreciation of official real effective   to avoid appreciation of official real effective
exchange rate (par. 44).                             exchange rate (pars. 44)
B. ta3iff and loort.          Cbange from positive list of unrestricted imports
92AIMP                     to negative list of prohibited products (para. 62).
Liberalising the           significant shift frou official foreign exchange
trade regime by           market to secondary msrket so that in FM86 531
rationalising tariff      of export 6 282 of import transactions were made
structures, reducing       through secondary market, compared to 27Z of
effective rates of         exports 6 201 of imports during ms (pare. 61).
protection in key
sectors and reducing       Reduction of tariff rates to 11 & reclassification of
quantitative               item  within nem rates (pars. 56).
restrictions.
Agreement to introduce a revised tariff schedule in FM8
and FY89 by reducing the number of tariff rates to 8
and limiting the "les tax rates to 2 which will reduce
the nmber of effective duty rates from 33 to 16 (para. 57).



-44-
Page 4
Objectives                    Actions Already Undertaken                           Actions to be Taken Prior to
-secod Sranch Release
Liberalization of imports through further
reductions in number of items in negative &
restricted lists, lifting restrictions on 140
items (such as trucks, diesel engines and buses),
reducing by 537 number of spare parts items for
jute and textile industries included in restricted
list & eliminating part of restricted list per-
taining to commercial importers (para. 62)
Agreement to reduce the negative list by 20X         Implementation of reductions in neg-
eacb year giviug priority to textile and steel       ative & restricted lists agreed at
and engineering products and remove restrictions   negotiations by incorporating then
on commercial importers of industrial raw            in the FY88 Import Policy Order
materials in equal installments over three           (pars. 62)
years (para. 62).
Commitment to lover tariffs in phases during         Reduction of tariffs on luxury goods
FY88-89 on luxury goods vith tariffs of 150l         above IS02 to a maximum of 1502
or more to a maximum of 1002 by FY89 (para. 57).   (para. 57)
Tariff changes in FY86 and FY87 budgets in
textile and engineering (para. 57).
Agreement on a phased program during PY88-PY90       Restructuring of tariffs on imports
to restructure tariffs & reduce quantitative         for textiles & steellengineering
restrictions in textiles & steel/engineering         subsectors such that the maximum
subsectors. to 0-852 for both subsectors             total protective tariff for final
(para. 57).                                         goods in these sectors are reduced
to 1252 and corresponding reductions
will be wade in tariffs for raw
materials and intermediate products
(para. 57).
Simplification of import pro-
cedures, elimination of import
licences and implementation of
pass books for industrial
imports (para. 37).
Review of existing studies on import &
customs procedures & agreement to develop
a program to implement these recoumendatioms
by October 1987 (para. 63).



-45-
Pagt 5
Objectives                    Actions Already Undertaken                                Actions to be Taken Prior to
Second Trench Release
C. Investment                 Modification of investment sanctioning system by
Sanctionina                replacing specific quantitative targets investment
schedule with general guidelines and making it
Liberalize investment      indicative (para. 68).
apptoval system by
reducing government        Except for industries reserved for public sector.
control on new             designation of all industries as free sectors not
industrial investment.    requiring approval (pars. 68).
Increase in the limits on finance institutions' term
lending wbich require government approval (para. 68).
Increase from 202 to at least 502 in the minimum per-
centage of imported inputs which require projects
to be reviewed by the Investment Board (para. 68).
D. Public Sector Indus-
trial Entercrises
Significantly reduce       Major public sector enterprise denationalization program
the scope and size of      under which about 650 enterprises were transferred from
public sector in           public to private sector (para. 73).
manufacturing by
*  denationalization,         tnactment of Public Enterprise Management Ordinance
limiting the areas in      limiting government intervention in public sector
which public sector can   enterprises' operations by giving their Boards greater
operate and introducing   operational authority (para. 77)
a new performance
targeting and evaluation  Issues of revised industrial policy statement limiting
system to increase         the areas in which public sector can enter and defining
autonomy and efficiency   the future denationalization policy (para. 71)
of remaining public
enterprises.               Award of management contracts to foreign firms to run
large PSI. (para. 74)



-46-
Page 6
Objectives                   Actions Already Undertaken                         Actions to be Taken Prior to
Second trench Relg                   __..
Sevelopment of new system to increse enterprise
autono3y while establishing clearer accountability
and performance criteria (para. 76).
Submission to IDA final proposl for
strengthening finance Ministry' Autonoaous
Bndies Ving & organisational arrangements for
developing 6 monitoring performace targets for
public sector industrial enterprises (para. 78).
Initiation during FY87 of pilot program involving
one public sector industrial enterprises to intro-
dsce a new public enterprise perfornce targeting,
Initoring & evaluation system and agreemnt to
include 3 additional public sector enterprises
in pilot program during FY88 (para. 80).
S.  inancil- Sector          WI technical assistance
prgram (parc. 85).
Increase recovery        Agreement on TOR for additional DYI technical       Satisfactory implemetation of
of industrial             assistance to strengthen appraisal, loan           WI technical assistance program
loan  & strengthen        supervision/collection & portfolio rehabilitation  (para. 99).
Davelopuent Finance       capabilities & accounting 6 persomnel systems
Institutions (Ils).       (para. 99).
Agreement with donors on an Action Program to
strengthen the DFIs 6 improve loan recoveries
(pars. 85).
Implemsntation of key elents of Action Poram.
including closure of concessions under Exchange
Fluctuation Absorption Schem (ISAS),  easures
ainst willful defaulters, take-over actions
against large defaulters, appointmet of lawyers
without prior Government approval, & satisfactory
proposed amendmnts to WI Orders (pares. 87-90).
Encetment of revised WFI charters (para. 96)



-47-
AiUI
Page 7
Objectiv e                   Actions Already Undertaken                         Actions to be Taken Prior to
Second Tranch Releak_                     _
Sbission to IDA of WI ad IDA financed aCe
lo an  portfolio  nalyses, strategies to increas
collections & reacbedule b write- off loans. A
revised projection of future collections (parse.
92-93).
Cash collection targete  et for July l-Dec 31      Collection of Tk. 1,370 million by
1986 of Tb. 330 million by Wi*s nd of Tn. 39       DFls and Tb. 136 million by WCEs
million by three MtU participating in              during Jan I-Dec 31, 1987
IDA-financed c_l industries projects              (parse. 92-94)
(pares. 92-94).
Agreemat to eliminate public sector enterprises'
arrears to  sasglsdech Shilps Rin Sngatba, the
DWI for vwich this is a significant problem by
July 1988 (pars. 91).
Initiation of increased provisions for bad &      Satisfactory progress in imple-
doubtful debts. recapitelisation to schie A       menting DWI programs for provisions
maintain WI debt/equity ratios at no more than  for bad and doubtful debt. recapi-
3:1, 6 selective rescbeduling & writing-off of    talisation ad & loan rschedulinga
loans (paras. 97-98).                             & write-offs (parse. 97-98).



