Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1816 BD
(Amendment)
(Industrial Sector Project)
between
 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 29, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 1816 BD
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower)    and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit  Agreement (Industrial Sector Project), dated June 22, 1987, (the Development 
Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the Borrower's 
industrial policy reforms;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards  the financing of the Project by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement; and  
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide  such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
deleting the  "and" at the end of Subsection (e); substituting "; and" for  "."  at 
the end of Subsection (f); and adding a new Subsection (g) as follows:
"(g) 'Amending Agreement' means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit Agreement (Industrial Sector Project) between the Borrower and the 
Association, dated June 22, 1987, as amended."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and  conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred forty 
nine million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 149,700,000) 
(the Credit), which includes an original amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred forty seven million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 147,800,000) (the Initial Financing) and an additional 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million nine hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,900,000) (the Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. The date in Section 2.03 is replaced by March 31, 1990.
Section 1.04. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (a) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement."
Section 1.05. The following paragraph  is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"3. After a date  twelve months from the date of this Amending 
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be entered 
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing. 
At any time after such date,  the  Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional Financing from the Credit 
Account or any part thereof."
Section 1.06. Section 2.07  of  the Development Credit Agreement is relettered 
as subsection  (a);  the words "the Credit" are amended to read "the Initial 
Financing"; and the following sub-
sections (b), (c) and (d) are added:
"(b) Subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Additional Financing in semi-annual installments 
payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 1999 and ending 
December 1, 2028.  Each installment to and including the installment payable 
on December 1, 2008 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(c)
Whenever (i) the  Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for  
five  consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider  the Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (b) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the 
Additional Financing shall have been repaid.  If so requested by the Borrower, the  
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the  principal amount of the Additional Financing 
Page  3
withdrawn and  outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (c) 
above, the  Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition  has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (b) 
above."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of 
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
                   By /s/ A.H.S. Atual Karim
Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice-President
Asia
