OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS1
CREDIT NUMBER 1816 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Industrial Sector Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                    2         , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1816 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1987, between
PEOPLETS REPUBLIC OF BANGLADeSH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOtMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SEM" means the Borrower's Secondary Exchange Market;
(b)    "DFIs" mean  the development finance institutions,
being the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) and Bangladesh Shilpa Rin
Sangstha (BSRS);
(c) "NCBs" mean the relevant nationalized commercial banks,
being the Agrani Bank, Janata Bank and Sonali Bank;
(d)  "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev. 2
(1981);


﻿-2-
(e)  "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, beginning
July 1 and ending June 30; and
(f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred forty-seven million eight hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 147,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special account in the Bangladesh
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿-3-
(b)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Con%itions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1997, and ending June 1,
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 1, 2007, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative  and  financial  practices, and   shall  provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project


﻿-4-
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association shall, not
later than January 31, 1988, exchange views on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the industrial policy reforms
under the Project. Prior to such exchange of views, the Bor-
rower shall furnish to the Association for its review and
comments a report on the progress achieved in the carrying out
of said policy reforms, in such form and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall not utilize any funds in
excess of $20,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate out of the
proceeds of the Credit for the purchase of goods referred to in
Part B.2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six (6) months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy


﻿of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
ciation has received the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date
Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date    of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of   Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the
External Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                       Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                         SETU BJ 64226
Dhaka, Bangladesh
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B 5              Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   All goods imported into the People's Republic of Bangladesh
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, except that no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures for goods for which payments shall not
have been made through releases to, and consistent with the
procedures governing the operation of, SEM, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree;
(b) expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract
which a national or international financing institution or any
other agency shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(c)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption;
(d) without limitation to the foregoing paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c), expenditures for items included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group        Sub-Group         Description of Items
112             -              Alcoholic beverages
121             -              Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122             -              Tobacco manufactured
667             -              Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
688             -              Uranium depleted in U235
and thorium, and their
alloys, unwrought or wrought,
and articles thereof, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of
thorium


﻿-9-
Group        Sub-Group         Description of Items
718             718.7         Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897             897.3         Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' wares (including
set gems)
971.0          Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(e) expenditures for items under SITC Group 661, Sub- group
661.2, in the form of clinker;
(f) expenditures for items unde SITC Group 672, Sub- group
672.5, other than billets imported exclusively for use in
rerolling mills;
(g)  expenditures for items in any single SITC Division in
excess of 25% of the total amount of the Credit;
(h)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 14,900,000, may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after January 1, 1987;
(i)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(j) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods, or on the importation, procurement or
supply thereof.
2.   Without limitation or restriction upon any other provisions
of this Schedule, no withdrawals (except for withdrawals under
prior commitments by the Association) shall be made and no
commitments shall be entered into by the Association (to pay
amounts to the Borrower or others), in respect of expenditures to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of SDR 77,800,000, unless and until:


﻿- 10 -
(a)    the Duty Exemption-Drawback Office referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall have been
established and brought into operation, to the satisfaction of
the Association;
(b)  the measures referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement shall have been taken, to the satisfaction of
the Association;
(c) the re.hanisms referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement shall have been implemented, to the satisfac-
tion of the Association;
(d)  the measures referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement shall have been taken, to the satisfaction of
the Association;
(e) provision shall have been made in the FY88 budget for
reduction of customs duty rates on luxury consumption goods
pursuant to paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to
the satisfaction of the Association;
(f) provision shall have been made in the FY88 budget for
the restructuring of tariffs and the reduction of quantitative
restrictions pursuant to paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, to the satisfaction of the Association;
(g)   provision shall have been made in the FY88 Import
Policy 0rder for the reduction of the items in the Borrower's
Negative List and Restricted List pursuant to paragraph 8      of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to the satisfaction of the
Association;
(h)  the relevant collection targets set for DFIs and NCBs
for the period January 1, 1987 through December 31, 1987 pursuant
to paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall have been
achieved;
(i)   progress shall have been made, satisfactory to the
Association, in implementing the measures for DFIs referred to
in paragraph 13 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(j)   the technical assistance program for DFIs referred to
in paragraph 14 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall have been


﻿- 11 -
initiated, to the satisfaction of the Association; and
(k)   the Borrower shall continue to have in operation an
exchange rate system satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the extension and refinement of its industrial policy reforms and
to strengthen the administrative arrangements necessary for their
implementation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Export Policy and Administration
1.   Relaxation of import restrictions on inputs for direct and
indirect exports and rationalization and extension of the duty
exemption-drawback   system,  permitting   direct  and   indirect
exporters access to duty-free imports.
2.    Modernization and strengthening of the Borrower's export
financing and export credit guarantee systems.
3.   Application of export incentives to indirect exporters.
4.   Strengthening of the Borrower's Export Monitoring Unit.
Part B:   Tariff and Import Regime
1.   Rationalization of the tariff structure by the reduction of
the numbers of customs duty and sales tax rates.
2.     Reduction of customs duty rates for luxury consumption
goods.
3.     Restructuring of tariffs and reduction of quantitative
restrictions on imports of textile, steel and engineering
products.
4.    Removal of items from the Borrower's Negative List and
Restricted List.
5.     Simplification of customs valuation and clearance proce-
dures.


﻿- 13 -
Part C:   Public Sector Industrial Enterprises
1.    Development and implementation of a system for monitoring
and evaluating the performance of individual public sector
enterprises.
2.    Increase in the operational autonomy of individual public
sector enterprises.
Part D:   Financial Sector
1.   Development and implementation of a program to improve the
rate and level of collections by DFIs and NCBs.
2.   Increase in the operational autonomy of DFIs.
3.    Financial restructuring and institutional strengthening of
DFIs.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   The Guidelines are hereby modified as follows:
(a) By the deletion of paragraph 2.8 and the substitution
therefor of the following:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 2.44) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, prequalify, or
bid, in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
Borrower's country and by at least one of the following
methods:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Devel-
opment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) By the addition at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the
following:
"As an alternative, the bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency
widely used in international trade and specified in the
bidding documents."


﻿- 15 -
(c) By the deletion of paragraph 2.55 and Appendix 2.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for commonly traded commodities may be awarded on
the basis of price quotations available from organized inter-
national commodity markets.
2.   Whenever the Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied
that goods of a specific type, design or manufacture shall be
required in the interest of equipment standardization or of other
valid considerations relating to the efficient utilization of
existing productive capacity, such goods, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on a negotiated basis under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Other goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$2,000,000 per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the pur-
chaser of such goods.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods referred to
in Part B.2 of this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where pay-
ments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract for goods referred to in
Part A.1 of this Schedule, and each contract for goods referred
to in Parts B.1 and B.3 of this Schedule estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the


﻿- 16 -
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Sched-
ule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraphs, the procurement decisions may be reviewed
by the Association on a random basis, in which event the proce-
dures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modi-
fied to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
together with the other information required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished
to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   In implementing Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall
establish in the National Board of Revenue of the Ministry of
Finance a Duty Exemption-Drawback Office (DEDO). As the prin-
cipal agency responsible for all policy-related and technical
tasks pertaining to duty-free imports, DEDO shall: (a) prepare
guidelines and administrative orders for duty-free imports;
(b) approve input coefficients for application to duty-free
imports; and (c) monitor the implementation of the duty-free
system.
2.   For purposes of Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall
take suitable measures to rationalize the structure of export
financing. Such measures shall: (a) enable indirect exporters to
have access to pre-shipment financing; and (b) provide exporters
with a choice of method of payment for imported inputs. The
Borrower shall also take measures to modernize and strengthen its
Export Credit Guarantee Scheme. Such measures shall include the
provision of necessary capital, staff and management.
3.   In carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall
implement   administrative  mechanisms,   satisfactory  to   the
Association, for the application of export incentives to indirect
exporters.
4.   In carrying out Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall
staff and equip the Export Monitoring Unit, so as to enable it to
monitor the export of items subject to external quota limitations
in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
5.    To implement Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall
introduce, not later than July 1, 1988, a revised tariff sched-
ule, reducing the number of customs duty rates to seven (namely,
2.5%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 50%, 75% and 100%) (except as provided in
paragraph 6 of this Schedule) and the number of sales tax rates
to one (namely, 20%), with the customs duty rates for raw mate-
rials not to exceed 20%, for intermediate products not to exceed
75%, and for final products not to exceed 100%.
6.   The Borrower shall lower the effective protection for the
domestic production of luxury goods with a view to discouraging
such production. To that end, the Borrower under Part B.2 of the


﻿- 18 -
Project shall: (a) in FY88, reduce all customs duty rates above
150% to 150%; and (b) in FY89, reduce all customs duty rates
above 100% to 100%, except in the case of tobacco products,
beverage concentrate, furs and fur apparel, perfumes and cosmetic
products, and precious and semi-precious stones, for which the
rates shall not exceed 200%, and in the case of whisky and
spirits and luxury motorcars, for which the rates shall not
exceed 300%.
7.   In implementing Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall
over a three-year period beginning FY88 restructure tariffs and
reduce quantitative restrictions on imports of textile, steel
and engineering products through a reduction in total nominal
tariffs, in amounts to be agreed for each year between the
Borrower and the Association, so that at the end of said period
such tariffs fall within a range of 0% to 85%; provided, however,
that, if at any time the excise duty rates for locally manufac-
tured products are increased significantly (i.e., by 5% or more),
such tariffs shall be adjusted correspondingly.
8.    Under Part B.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall remove
items from its Negative List and Restricted List as follows:
(a) by reducing the number of items in the Negative List
by about 20% each year beginning FY88, but giving priority to the
textiles and steel and engineering sectors so that the bans in
these sectors are completely removed by FY90; and
(b) by reducing the number of items relating to industrial
inputs in the Restricted List by about 33% each year beginning
FY88 so that the restrictions are completely removed and such
items become commercially importable by FY90.
9.   In implementation of Part B.5 of the Project, the Borrower
shall, not later than September 30, 1987, agree with the Asso-
ciation on a timetable for implementing reform measures on the
basis of studies carried out by the Borrower.
10.  To carry out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall, not
later than September 30, 1987, strengthen the Autonomous Bodies
Wing in the Ministry of Finance, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, to oversee a system of performance indicators for,
and a program for the monitoring and evaluation of, public
enterprises and to coordinate the work of the various ministries
and agencies in setting performance targets. During FY87 the


﻿- 19 -
Borrower shall apply said performance indicators to one indust-
rial enterprise on a pilot basis and during FY88 shall extend
said monitoring and evaluation program to three additional
industrial enterprises to be agreed with the Association.
11. For purposes of Part D.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause, and shall take all measures necessary to enable, DFIs and
NCBs to achieve certain minimum collection targets, as may be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, during FY87 and
FY8 3.
12. In carrying out Part D.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall,
by June 30, 1988, eliminate all arrears due from public sector
enterprises to BSRS.
13. In carrying out Part D.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)   cause DFIs to make increased provisions for bad and
doubtful debt in their financial statements for FY87;
(b)   cause DFIs to reschedule individual loans, as appro-
priate, and to selectively write off loans having no realistic
prospects of being serviced; and
(c) recapitalize DFIs with a view to maintaining each DFI's
debt/equity ratio at not more than 3 to 1.
14. For purposes of Part D.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall
provide additional technical assistance to DFIs to enable them to
strengthen their appraisal, loan collection and supervision, and
portfolio rehabilitation functions, and their accounting and
pe7sonnel management   systems, in    accordance  with  terms  of
reference   and  within   a   time-frame   satisfactory  to   the
Association.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 23,400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account in the equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.


﻿- 21 -
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.    (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, sball be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund


﻿- 22 -
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


