Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9254
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 480-IND)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial dc ies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Indonesian Rupiah
US$1.00 - Rp 415 from 1973 through 1978
- Rp 625 from 1979
Rp 970 on March 30, 1983
- Rp 1798 on May 20, 1990
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 ton (t)         - I metric ton - 1,000 kg = 2,200 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)   - 1,000 grams = 2.2 pounds
1 hectare (ha)    = 10,000 square meters = 2.5 acres
1 GT              - 100 cubic feet of ships' internal capacity
ABBREVIATIONS
BRI   -     Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DGC   -     Director General of Cooperatives
DGF   -     Directorate General of Fisheries
FAO   -     Food and Agriculture Organization
GOI   -     Government of Indonesia
GT    -     Gross ton
MOF   -     Ministry of Finance
NES   -     Nucleus Estates
OED   -     Operations Evaluation Department
PCR   -     Project Completion Report
PPM   -     Perum Perikanan Maluku
(a state fisheries enterprise)
RSI   -     Resident Staff Indonesia
SAR.  -     Staff Appraisal Report



VOR OmCIAL uE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
0kiOWUW Ivuuul
Me w ow"tarCA&
December 28, 1990
ENMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Audit Report on Republic of Indonesia
FiPheries Credit Prolect (Credit 480-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Performance Audit Report on Republic of Indonesia - Fisheries
Credit Project (Credit 480-IND)" prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pefformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 480-IND)
TABLE OP CONTENTS
Page, No.
Proface .................................. . . ... 1.  .
Basic Data Sheet ............... .......................... l* iii
Evaluation Summary .......... ..................... ..  ......         v
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT
T.    BACKGROUND                  .....                          I
Context..                                            1
Project Objectives.                    .             1
Design..                                             2
Finance Plan....                                     3
Organization .        ........                       3
Pre-implementation Processing.                       3
II.    IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE                                  4
Start-up ............................                4
Skip-jack Tuna Sub-project          .     .5
Fishpond Sub-project.                                5
Trawler Sub-project                .                 6
Management               ........                    6
Supervision . .                                     7
Ill.    PROJECT OUTCOME ..... o..... . ..   ...       ...          8
Closing Date and Project Cost.                       8
Performance at Completion and Longer
Term Impact ............
IV.     FINDINGS AND LESSONS       .......... . .                 12
General .12
A.  Inadequacies in Project Design .12
B.  Organization of Fisheries Credit                    14
C.  Management and Training ..................          15
D.  Capital Structure of State Enterprises              16
E. Economic Reassessment .16
Table 1 - Summary of Fisheries Statistics for Selected Years
Table 2 - Performance of PPM Skipjack Fishing Vessels, 1978/89
Table 3 - Brackish Water Fish Farming Credit Prograimes
Financial Swmnary as at April 1990
Map - IBRD No. 2853R1       - Project Location
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 480-IND)
PREFACE
This is a Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) on the Fisheries
Credit Project, which involved an IDA credit amounting to US$6.5 million (M) to
the Government of Indonesia (GOI) for the development of skipjack tuna fishing
at Ambon in the Moluccas, and intensification of fish farming in four provinces,
namely, East, Central   d West Java, and South Sulawesi.  The IDA credit was
approved in June 1974 and became effective in January 1975.  The closing date of
June 30, 1979 was extended to December 31, 1981.
This PPAR is based on the Project Completion Report (PCR).j/ the
Staff Appraisal and the President's Reports, the loan documents, the transcript
of the Executive Directors' meeting at which the project was considered, on a
study of project files and discussions with Bank staff.  In addition, an OED
mission visited Indonesia in May 1990 to discuss the outcome and impact of the
project and the effectivenese of the Bank's assistance with GOI staff and others.
Their interest, kind cooperation and active assistance in the preparation of this
report is gratefully acknowledged.
The PCR, which was prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office following a country visit in August 1982, provides a comprehensive
analysis of the project experience and its status shortly after the Credit -was
closed. A number of lessons which were apparent by then are also highlighted in
the PCR. The audit memorandum further elaborates on some of the PCR conclusions
and on issues arising from the subsequent outcome and impact of the project,
because of their importance for other Bank supported fisheries projects.  In
particular, inadequacies in the preparation and appraisal process are discussed,
especially as regards credit arrangements for fish farmers and the choice of
fishing vessel intended for operation by fishermen's cooperatives.
The draft PPAR was sent to the Borrower for comments but none were
received.
1/    Project Completion Report, Indonesia Fisheries Credit Project (Credit 480-
IND), Report No. 4468, dated May 3, 1983.



- iii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 480711M1)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA                      Appraisal       Actual or      Actual as Z
estimate    estimated actual  of appraisal
estimate
Project costs (US$ million)             12.9             18.5             143
Credit amount (US$ million)              6.5              6.5             100
Date Board approval                                    06/04/74
Date Signing                                           06114/74
Date Effectiveness                    10/18/74         01/08/75
Date physical components completed  06/30/79           09/30/81
Proportion then completed (2)   70                100
Closing date                          06/30/79         12/31/81
Economic rate of return (Z)            22-39             n.a.            n.a.
Financial rate of return (X)           20-38             n.a.           n.a.
Institutional performance             Adequate           Fair
Technical performance                 Adequate           Fair
Number of direct beneficiaries         9,000            3,000              33
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS       FY75  FY76  FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82
Appraisal estimate (US$ M)    0.5   2.9   5.2   6.2   6.5    -         -     -
A8tual (US$ M)                 0.1   0.6   3.3   4.2   4.8   5.1   5.8   6.5
Actual as & of estimate         20    21    63    68    74    78    89   100
Date of final disbursement    03/82
STAFF INPUTS (staff weeks)
PRE-
TASK               FY81        FY81         FY82         FY83        TOTAL
Preappraisal       118.4                                             118.4
Appraisal           19.0                                               19.0
Negotiation          2.2                                                2.2
Stpervisicn        105.7       11.8         13.0          5.1        135.6
Other                4.5                     6.2          5.8          16.5
TOTAL       249.8        11.8         19.2        10.8         291.6



- iv -
MISSION DATA
No. of   Specializations Performance        Typea of
Lfission            Date    Persons  represented     ratint       Trend Problems
(mo./yr)                La /b                    La      id
Identification/
Preparation      08/72        3       F(2) E
Appraisal          06/73       6       F(2) E(2) FA(2)
Supervision  1    08/75        3       F    E    FA       1           1
Supervision  2    03/76        2       F    E             1           1
Supervision  3    06/76        2       F    E             1           1
Supervision  4    04/77        3       F    E    FA       2           2    M,T
Supervision  5    12/77        3       F    E    FA       2           1   M,T
Supervision  6    07/78        3       F    E    FA       2           2    F.M
Supervision  7    09/79        3       F    E    FA       2           1    F.P
Supervision  8    12/79        2            E    FA       2           2    M,T
Supervision  9    08/80        2       F          FA      2           3    M,T
Supervision 10    05/81        2       F          FA      2           2    M,0
Supervision 11    01/82        2       F          FA      2           1   M,O
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                             Governmert of Indonesia
Executing agency                     Perum Perikanan Maluku (PPM)
Fiscal year                          April 1 - March 31
Name of currency (abbreviation):    Rupiah (Rp)
Currency exchange rate:
Appraisal year average           1973             US$1.00 - 415
Intervening years average      1973-81            US$1.00 = 510
Completion year average          1981             US$1.00 - 625
La    F = Fishery expert; E = economist; FA - financial analyst.
lb    1 = problem-free or minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; and 3 - major
problems.
/c    1   improving; 2 = stationary; and 3 = deteriorating.
/d    F   financial; M1  managerial; T = technical; P = political; and 0 -
other.



- v -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 480--IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
When this project Was identified, in the early 1970s and prior to the
1973 world fuel oil price crisis, Indonesia was engaging in a major fisheries
expansion program aimed at making fuller use of the country's fish resources for
both domestic consumption and for exports and increasing income and employment
opportunities of subsistence fishermen and fish farmers.
Proiect Design & Obiectives
The Project, as approved by the Board in 1974, was designed to
increase fish production from the project area thereby increasing employment and
earnings of fishermen and fish farmers, to strengthen fisheries estates'
management and to enhance economic development in the project area, comprising
East, Central and West Java, South Sulawesi and the Moluccas. The SAR detailed
three sub-projects and a technical assistance component to support project
implementation. These components were:
(a)   a skipjack tuna fishing complex in Ambon for the state enterprise
Perum Perikanan Malukua (PPM), consisting of shore facilities for
handling the catch (ice-making, freezing and cold storage), and for
fishing vessel maintenance (jetty, slipways and workshops), together
with provision of two 100 gross ton (GT) carrier vessels and ten 30
GT pole and line fishing boats.  Ten more of these vessels were
provided for sale to local fishermen's cooperatives, whose catches
were to be sold to PPM which would also be rosponsible for
maintaining the Coop boats.
(b)   milkfish and shrimp pond improvements over 15,000 hectares in Java
and South Sulawesi, together with nine small ice plants;
(c)   the provision of 25 trawlers for fishing cooperatives in the Java
area;
(d)   technical assistance comprising specialists in management,  boat
building and mechanical, electrical and civil engineering were
provided for the skipjack sub-project and three pond-fisheries
experts supported the fish & shrimp farming program; and



- vi -
(e)   loans for fishermen's cooperatives and other sub-borrowers such as
fish-farmers, were to be axtended by the Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI), and the Director-General of Fisheries (DGF) was responsible
for coordinating and supervising project implementation.
ImRlementation Experience
An initial three month delay in effectiveness and slow procurement
at the outset caused a two year delay in project implementation.   However,
procurement did improve very greatly later on with assistance from GOI and
Resident Mission (RSI) staff. Supervision records show that moderate managerial
problems were experienced through most of the years with less frequent instances
of difficulties of a financial or technical nature.
Two project components, namely the 25 cooperative trawlers and 9
small ice plants were dropped during project implementation and the savings used
to finance part of the cost overruns for the other vessels and consultants.
Total project costs were the equivalent of US$16.9 M instead of US$12.8 M as
estimated at appraisal.
Results
Credit 480-IND was fully disbursed by February 1982, shortly after
the formal closing date of December 31, 1981. Excluding the two sub-components
which were dropped, as mentioned above, the project's other objectives were very
largely achieved except for the poor financial control on operations, cost
overruns and the rather small number of fish-farmers assisted (less than 3,000
compared with the SAR target of 9,000). As recorded in the PCR, marine fish
catches and fish-pond yields, although about 40% below appraisal targets, were
considered satisfactory and showed rapidly increasing production trends. PPM's
fleet of ten 30 GT pole & liners and two 100 GT catcher/carriers, plus the ten
cooperatively owned 30 GT fishing vessels were fully operational, as were the
shore facilities at Ambon. PPM, having made losses from 1978 to 1980, recorded
its first net profit in 1981. Fish pond productivity, expressed as kg/ha/yr, was
showing increases of up to 100% for milkfish and 500% for shrimp, from Credit 480
assisted ponds. However, the level of sub-loan arrears and defaults remained
disappointingly high at 44% and was improving only slowly, due to the lack of an
appropriate system for fisheries debt recovery in BRI and to BRI's relative
unfamiliarity with long-term fisheries lending prior to this project.
Sub-loans under the fish farming component benefitted 2,725
owner/operators of 8,900 ha of ponds and totalled Rp. 1,616 million.   The
appraisal target was 9,000 beneficiaries and 15,000 ha but it is clear that this
target underestimated both the average size of fish farm and the amount needed
per hectare to achieve the necessary improvements.
Economic rates of return were assessed at appraisal for nine separate
components, with results ranging from 22% to 39%, but were recalculated at
completion for only two, namely PPM (Ambon) and a 5 hectare fish pond.  At
completion the ERR for PPM was 29% (SAR 34%) and 30% for the fish pond (SAR 24S).
There was no weighted value quoted for ERR covering the project as a whole,
either at appraisal or completion.    Results since completion suggest a very



- vii 
satisfactory outcome for the fish-farming sub-project, but a disappointing
decline in perfotmance of the skipjack-tuna sub-project baced at Ambon.
Sustainabilitv
As indicated in the PCR it did appear, at the completion stage, as
if the prospects for sustainability were good and, as regards the fish farming
component this has indeed proved to be the case.  Arrears including accrued
interest, have been reduced to 9.5% of the amount originally lent (44% at
completion) ard are continuing to reduce slowly.  It is considered that the
arrears could be virtually eliminated if BRI were willing to establish fisheries
units to enable closer and more frequent contact with its borrowers at provincial
and district levels.
Project achievements in aquaculture have been reinforced by two ADB
funded brackish water aquaculture projects and by additional lending under the
IDA funded Rural Credit Project (IDA Loan 827-IND). The fish-farming extension
service, which was a weak element during much of this project, has since been
reorganized, amalgamated with other Ministry of Agriculture farm extension
services and strengthened.   Parmed fish production has greatly increased,
especially from brackish water ponds which yielded more than 192,000 me. in 1987
compared with 113.000 mt in 1981.
The skipjack tuna fishing component based at Ambon has not fared so
well during the 8-1/2 years since credit closing. PPM's shorebase and fishing
fleet are still operational, although the ice-plant and the ten pole & line boats
are nearing the end of their working :ife and mey need replacing within the next
three years.  Despite the subsequent acquisition of four long-liners PPM has
never caught more than 60% of the appraisal target annual catch (the 12 year
average, 1978/1989, is only 35%) and in consequence has recorded a net profit,
after interest and depreciation, in only one y__r (1981) out of the past twelve.
As a state enterprise, PPM's continued survival is therefore dependent on GOI's
willingness to sipport its losses although, as the PCR also notes, the losses
were and continue to be partly due to GOI decisions concerning the extremely high
ratio of debt to equity in PPM's capital structure and the level of depreciation
charges, which were judged to be about 40% higher on average than was justified
by the value of assets.
The position of the cooperative owned fleet is even worse in that,
with one exception the boats are now all derelict and are said to be beyond any
hope of renovation, having given at most only six years of working life. The
cooperatives concerned still owe the banks more than Rp 382 M, plus interest, in
respect of vessel and fishing gear costs, and also owe a further Rp 54 M to PPM
for repairs, fuel and ice supplied. They have no other means or any hope of ever
being able to repay such amounts and in their case, at least, it is clear that
the project has had a decidedly negative impact.
Findings and Lessons
Despite the apparently favorable status of the project at completion,
there were two inherent weaknesses stemming from the preparatory stage which
should have been more adequately dealt with prior to negotiations, namely BRI's



- viii -
relative lack of experience of lending to the fisheries sector and an over-
optimistic assessment of the capability of fishermen's 8ooperatives in the
project area to manage and maintain relatively large and costly fishing vessels.
Considering that the fisheries credit program, including the fish
farming component and sub-loans to cooperatives and others for skipjack catcher
vessels and trawlers, was originally planned to utilize about 60Z of project
funds and that BRI uas also to be responsible for all of the lending, it is
remarkable that at no stage was any credit expertise included in a.., of the
supervision missions, let alone anyone part0cularly knowledgeable about the
problems of fisheries credit recovery. Although, as the PCR points out, credit
recovery should take place at the time of fish catch dalivery or of fishpond
harvesting, and not routinely, at regular monthly or annual intervals, a
mechanism and the staffing needed for this purpose shculd have been determined
and agreed with BRI before lending commenced.   As it was, the high level of
arrears was due more to BRI's unpreparedness and disinclination to establish
specialist fish-farming credit units in the Provinces or to assign staff
specifically to work in this field, rather than to any iaiherent unwillingness by
fish farmers to repay their loans. It is to be hoped that such arrangements will
be included in any future credit plans.
The need for project design to be realistic as to implementation time
schedules and the nature of components for inclusion in the project, was
recognized in the PCR, along with the view that the provision for trawlers and
for small ice-plant in fish-farming areas should have been excludAd at appraisal.
The same may be said about the fishing vessels selected for sale to cooperatives
in the Ambon area, which proved to be too large and too costly for them to
operate and maintain, particularly as they had to rely on the PPM slipway and
workshops for vessel repairs and upkeep, a role which PPM found itself
1-creasingly unable to fulfill after the first two or three years, because it had
to give priority to maintaining its own fleet. A fishing vessel designed to meet
the needs of an industrial scale, company type of operation is unlikely to prove
suitable also for a much smaller scale enterprise. Each should have a vessel
designea around its own requirements.   It is essential that preparation and
appraisal missions must view such matters much more critically in future.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 480-IND)
I. BACKGROUND
Context
1.          Although Indonesia is known to have substantial marine resources,
its fishing industry still has much potential for further development. Prior
to 1970 the industry was based on a large, mainly subsistence coastal fishery,
using traditional boats and gear. A small commercial fishery had developed but
was dominated by joint ventures between mainly Japanese companies and ethnically-
Chinese Indonesian businessmen. Very few Indonesian fishermen had the capital
or managerial ability neeted for successful commercial fishing.   Fisheries
cooperatives were not well organized or very effective and so the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) turned to the concept of state enterprises.
2.          In 1970, there were eight state fisheries enterprises, each rather
small and managing a few fishing boats or small shcea facilities.  None were
particularly profitable but covered their operating costs and although operated
commercially, they also had social goals such as, research, employment and price
stabilization, etc. IDA's First Fisheries Project (Credit 211-IND) in Indonesia
became effective in October 1970, in the shape of a state fishing enterprise
located at Aer Tembaga, North Sulawesi intended to promote skipjack tuna fishing
for export.
3.          Preparation  for the Fisheries Credit Project  (Credit  480-IND)
commenced shortly thereafter, whilst the Aer Tembaga project was still in the
process of implementation and concurrently with the establishment of Asian
Development Bank (ADB) funded new enterprises in West Irian, Riau and Central
Java ar(' a Japanese Government supported tuaLa long-line fishing project in Bali.
All of these enterprises have encountered severe managerial and financial
problems, made worse by a rapid rise in fuel based operating costs since the 1973
oil price crisis and a collapse in skipjack and tuna world market values in 1982
which have never fully recovered. In view of this relatively poor record, GOI
has increasingly moved towards supporting the private fisheries sector, with
particular emphasis on the nucleus estate approach ir which private enterprise
and individual fishermen or cooperatives can associate on mutually beneficial
terms.   GOI has also continued to support the state enterprises  in the
expectation that they could become the bases for future nucleus estates, as has
already happened in two cases.
Proiect Obiectives
4.          In pursuance of the overall national aim of making fuller use of
Indonesia's fish resources for domestic consumption and export and thereby



- 2 -
increasing income and employment opportunities for subsistence fishermen and fish
farmers, the main objectives of the Fisheries Credit Project were to expand
production of skipjack tuna from the Ambon area for export and encourage greater
investment in and increased production from brackish water fish farms in East,
Central and West Java and South Sulawesi.   In the process and by means of
appropriate technical assistance, the technical and managerial capacity of the
Ambon state fishing enterprise Perum Perikanan Maluku (PPM) would be developed,
the DGF's Fish Farming Extension Service would be strengthened and the expertise
of the Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) as regards the particular needs, problems and
characteristics of the fishing industry, would also be enlarged and strengthened.
Design
5.          The design of the project differed from the earlier Aer Tembaga
project (Credit 211-IND) in that about half of its funds were directed to the
developent of brackish water fish farming and the balance to marine fisheries,
whereas Credit 211 was concerned only with marine fisheries development. Fish
farming was then growing in importance as a source of income and employment in
many coastal areas of Indonesia but was in need of development capital and better
extension services.
6.          Design  of  the  facilities  at Ambon  incorporated  some  of  the
recommendations and lessons learned from the earlier project at Aer Tembaga, such
as the jetty being extended into water of sufficient depth as to allow larger
refrigerated cargo ships to berth alongside as well as the fishing fleet. The
Ambon cold storage system was also designed to minimize loading and unloading
time, producing ccst savings and better quality fish.   Provision for the
recruitment of experienced consultants to strengthen PPM's management and
organizational structure was regarded as an important improvement in project
design, given the acute managerial and technical problems that were being
experienced at Aer Tembaga.
7.          The project, as approved by the Board in 1974, comprised three sub-
projects and a technical assistance component to support project implementation.
These were:
(a)   Skipjack Tuna Sub-proiect, involving the establishment of a tuna
fishing complex in Ambon for the state fishing enterprise, consisting
of 10 pole & line fishing boats to be used by PPM for skipjack
fishing; fishing gear for catching live bait and skipjack tuna; two
100 GT carrier vessels to increase fishing efficiency; shore
facilities for handling the catch (ice-making, freezing and cold
storage) and for fleet operation and maintenance (jetty, slipway and
workshops). A further 10 pole & line fishing vessels of similar size
and design, were provided for sale on credit to local fishermen's
cooperatives, on the assumption that their catches would be sold to
PPM, and that PPM would be responsible for uaintaining the
Cooperative boats and accounting for Cooperative loan repayments by
deductions from catch sale values.
(b)   Fish Pond Sub-project, consisting of improvements to about 15,000



ha of existing smallholder brackish water ponds in East, Central &
West Java and in South Sulawesi; development of about 45 one to five
ha demonstration ponds for use by a strengthened extension service;
and establishment of nine 5-ton ice plants for the preservation of
project milkfish and shrimp production enroute to market.
(c)   Trawler Sub-nrolect, involving the procurement of 25 trewlers for
sale on credit to fishing cooperatives in the Java area.
(d)   Technical Assistance, for effective implementation of the project,
comprising specialists in management, boat building, electrical,
mechanical and civil engineering for the skipjack tuna sub-project
and three pond-fisheries experts to support the brackish water fish
and shrimp farming program. A total of 17 man/years for up to seven
experts was proposed.
Finance Plan
8.          At appraisal it was estimated that the project would cost a total
of US$12.9 M, of which the IDA credit amounted to US$6.5 M. Allocation of the
total estimate, including the relevant amount for technical assistance, was
approximately 42% to the skipjack tuna sub-project, 44% to the fish-pond sub-
project and 14% to the trawler sub-project.
9.          The estimated foreign exchange component totalled US$3.8 M, or 30%
of total costs, and it was therefore intended that the IDA credit would finance
roughly 50% of total project cost, including about US$2.7 M of local currency
cost.  The credit was intended to supply about 58% of BRI support for the
project, 53% of PPM's investment costs and 14% of GOI's contribution to project
cost.
Organiz at ion
10.         Loans to the fishermen's cooperatives and other borrowers such as
fish-farmers,  were  to  be  extended  and  administered  by  BRI.    Overall
responsibility for coordinating and supervising project implementation was
undertaken by the Director General of Fisheries.
11.         There is no mention of any involvement by the Director General of
Cooperatives.
Pre-implementation Processing
12.         GOI's request for a second IDA-financed fisheries project was
reviewed and discussed by an FAO/Bank identification mission in August/September
1972. In January 1973 FAO/Bank again visited Indonesia and prepared the project
broadly along the lines of GOI's request. The project was appraised by IDA in
June 1973.
13.         These missions noted local and international scientific assessments
of the marine resources in Indonesian waters as being capable of yielding a 30-



fold increase in skipjack production and a 7-fold increase in overall total fish
catch, compared to the 1972 landings of only 5,000 tons of skipjack and 839,000
tons of all kinds of fish.   Notwithstanding this potential for increased
production, some inshore areas, such as the zone up to 5 miles offshore along
the north coast of Java, were already overfished because about 97% of the 288,000
boats in the fishing fleet were not mechanized and were therefore unable to
travel further afield. Consequently, it was important to divert as much fishing
effort as possible away from overexploited coastal waters to more distant but
still underutilized fishing grounds.
14.         Prior to project start-up th,re were about 184,000 ha of brackish
water fish-ponds in Indonesia, dating back for several hundred years in some
places, but mostly employing only a low level of milkfish culture technology and
yielding about 330 kg/ha annually of mixed fish species, crabs and shrimp. The
missions noted that quite simple improvements to pond design producing better
control of water conditions could, when combined with the use of small amounts
of fertilizer, generate large increases in productivity of up to 500-600 kg of
milkfish and 250 kg of shrimp per annum.
15.         Issues  included  concern  about  the  ability  of  state  fishing
enterprises such as PPM to manage such development projects, given the problems
that were affecting the Aer Tembaga development; and the inadequate level of
extension back-up for fish farming development, coupled with a general lack of
facilities to demonstrate improved fish farming techniques.  There were also
doubts about BRI's preparedness to engage in a substantial fisheries credit
program given that BRI had no in-house fisheries expertise and that lending to
the fisheries sector had until then constituted less than 2% of the bank's
lending rortfolio and was experiencing arrears of about 40%.
16.         Negotiations took place in April 1974 when, in addition to agreements
on such matters as local funding and interest rates, agreement was also reached
that BRI would engage a qualified fishery officer to liaise with DGF and PPM over
the technical appraisal of sub-loan applications. DGF agreed to construct 45
demonstration fish-ponds each staffed by one trained fish farming instructor,
and to recruit a further 50 extension officers who would work with the three pond
fisheries experts. Conditions of effectiveness included that at least one pond
fisheries expert and the management specialist for PPM be appointed and in
position prior to the project being declared effective.
17.         The credit was approved by the Board in June 1974.
II. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Start-up
18.         Project effectiveness was planned for October 18, 1974 but had to
be deferred because of initial difficulties in recruiting the first aquaculturist
and the management specialist Eor PPM.   The credit was eventually declared



- s -
effective on January 8, 1975.  Thereafter the remaining technical assistance
personnel and consultants were recruited expeditiously and the project made good
progress at least until Year 4.
Skip-Jack Tuna Sub-prolect
19.         Soon after effectiveness, specifications and tender documents for
the twenty skipjack pole & line fishing boats were prepared with the assistance
of consultants and in consultation with RSI. The boat construction contract was
awarded to a state owned yard in Sumatra which delivered the first ten craft to
PPM on schedule by October 1977.  Delivery of the remaining ten vessels was
delayed from April 1978 until October/November 1979 because of disputes involving
BRI, PPM, DGF and the Cooperative Department (DGC) concerning the selection of
coops to receive the boats, their cost and manner of repayment.
20.         Considerable delay occurred  in procurement of the two carrier
vessels, caused by changes in specification necessitating retendering and other
bureaucratic problems, so that they did not finally enter service until just
after the credit closing date and at greatly increased cost.
21.         Construction of the shore facilities at Ambon commenced in early 1976
and was completed within two years, on schedule. The work was carried out with
little or no cause for complaint and at completion, the condition of these
facilities was adjudged good to excellent and the operational equipment was
working satisfactorily. However, the cost of these shore facilities, at US$5.9
M was double the appraisal estimate and the cost of the sub-project as a whole
was US$11.445 M compared to the appraisal estimate of US$5.364 M.
Fishpond Sub-project
22.         Implementation of this component started in September 1975, and
appeared to be going well when, as reported by the third supervision mission in
June 1976, loans had been made to some 780 smallholders covering 2554 ha of
brackish water ponds. However, by the time of the 4th supervision in April 1977,
the position had deteriorated quite badly. BRI lending procedures, such as poor
appraisal at branch level, coupled with inadequate extension follow-up, were
giving cause for concern and escalating arrears. Notwithstanding the support
provided by the three experts, fish-farming extension workers appeared poorly
motivated and in many cases were not regarded by more experienced pond owners
as having any specialized knowledge to offer.
23.         Because of the deteriorating quality of its fisheries portfolio and
under IDA advice, BRI suspended disbursements in May 1977, and reappraised all
fisheries sub-loans in accordance with guidelines provided by IDA. This exercise
resulted in the cancellation of a number of bad loans and a considerable
improvement in subsequent lending operations.  At the same time DGF acted to
improve the quality of its extension services in the project area, in terms of
increased staffing and establishing pond demonstration & training units along
the lines of undertakings made during negotiations.



24.         As a consequence of the interruption, BRI did not complete its
fishpond lending program until early 1980, well behind schedule, and totalling
2,725 owner/operators of 8,900 ha. Provision for small ice-plants was dropped
during 1978 because supplies of ice from other existing sources were sufficient
and there was l:.ttle or no interest by cooperatives or local businessmen in
taking out loans for this purpose.   The savings were applied towards the
escalating cost of technical assistance. Total expenditure, including the costs
of demonstration ponds and consultant services, was US$5.427 M or 95Z of the
appraisal estimate.
Trawler Sub-proilect
25.         The third supervision, in June 1976, noted reports of increasing
numbers of private trawlers fishing illegally inside coastal water limits,
especially in the Java Sea area, exacerbating the overfishing problem to the
detriment of artisanal/subsistence fishermen. It was therefore agreed with DGF
to put the trawler component into abeyance.
26.         Two years later, the sixth supervision in July 1978 agreed with DGF
to drop the trawler component altogether, in favor of three additional carrier
boats for the Ambon operation. However, there is no indication that any orders
were placed for these three vessels and in the end, the savings from Category
2 (trawlers) was used to offset some of the other cost overruns.
Management
27.         Administrative and technical weaknesses in the management of state
enterprises, including PPM and fishermen's cooperatives, were recognized at
appraisal and led to the inclusion of several technical assistance positions in
the project to help PPM to develop its managerial capacity whilst implementing
the project. The project provided a technical adviser (described as a management
specialist in the SAR and Credit Agreement), a master fishermen and a
refrigeration engineer who performed well in assisting their counterparts,
training other local staff, supervising construction of the shore base and
advising on procurement, etc. However, as none of them had any direct managerial
function they were unable to be of much help in accelerating project
implementation.
28.         Record-keeping for management and project monitoring purposes did
improve during the projp t, but were still unsatisfactory at completion and are
only marginally better .    It was noted that although the performance of PPM's
management team was ge.1. .lly satisfactory, there were problems of commitment
since most managers spent excessive time in Jakarta, where their families lived,
rather than on the job.   In particular,  the PCR stressed the need for a
commercially oriented functional accounting system, the absence of which,
throughout the project, resulted in increased operational costs and was the chief
cause of reported accounting losses.
29.         Management of the fish farAing co-Donent presented different problems
in that the recruitment  of three pond-f. heries  experts was  intended  to
strengthen DGF's fish farming extension service, but had only marginal impact



- 7 -
in that respect.   As regards BRI, the main worry was the lack of personnel
especially at branch level, who had experience of fisheries credit management.
The employment of a fisheries graduate by BRI was helpful in improving liaison
between the bank and DGF, but the officer concerned had only about two years
post-graduate experience and was not therefore in a position to have much
influence on the quality of sub-loan appraisal at the branches, or to direct the
management of loan repayment on lines that accord with the way of life of
fishermen and fish farmers.
30.         There was a potentially very damaging disagreement at a critical
stage during 1978, between PPM and DGF on the one hand and DGC and the Ambon
fishermen's  cooperatives  on  the  other,  concerning  the  choice  of  which
cooperatives should receive boats and the manner of cost recovery.  Such key
questions should have been resolved before the orders were placed to build the
vessels, whereas failure to do so cost a year's delay in delivery and added
significantly to their cost. It was also a serious error by project management
and by the preparation and appraisal missions that DGC's institutional and legal
responsibility for cooperative affairs  as not given enough consideration so as
to ensure full participation by DGC from the outset in planning and implementing
this part of the project.
31.         Finally, from the record and from discussions held with some of the
cooperative members concerned, it appears that they were not adequately consulted
before decisions were taken on the type, size and cost of fishing vessel to be
built.  Cooperative members stated that the vessels differed in respect to size,
manner of construction, materials and cost, from what they expected. They were
particularly unhappy with the shallow draft, flat-bottomed design instead of a
deeper V-shaped hull which they considered to be more sea-worthy. The seventh
supervision report (September 1979) noted that the first five boats were in
service but that the cooperatives concerned were unhappy about their high
purchase and operational cost and that this was leading to bad relations between
the coops and PPM and disputes about fish prices, etc. Effectively the coops
were arguing that they were pressured into taking boats which they could not
afford to operate, maintain and repay at prices dictated by PPM. BRI was also
clearly unhappy about the loan repayment prospects. The eighth and subsequent
supervision reports note steadily worsening repayment arrears, poorly maintained
craft and suggestions that PPM should take over the boats together with the BRI
loan commitments, although this idea was never followed through.
Supervision
32.         Although IDA's supervision procedure has no direct bearing on project
management, it is frequently perceived by borrowers, however incorrectly, as
contributing to the management process.  Such was certainly the case in this
instance and IDA's supervision interventions helped to expedite procurement and
to improve technical standards, often by providing the bridge for contact between
GOI officials.  As noted in the PCR, supervision was not forceful enough in
promoting improvements in PPM's accounting & financial management or in
facilitating project cost recovery. However, its request to BRI in 1977 to stop
disbursements and to reappraise all the fish farming sub-loans, helped to reduce
arrears and improve portfolio quality. On the other hand, had BRI been better



- 8 -
prepared perhaps by the inclusion of a fisheries credit specialist in the earlier
missions, the problems might not have arisen.
33.         There were a total of 11 supervision missions between August 1975
and January 1982, at roughly six monthly intervals. Mission members totalled
27, each averaging 6 man-days per visit which should have been adequate. Apart
from the lack of fisheries credit expertise, mission composition was satisfactory
with a fishery expert present on 10 missions, an economist on 8 and a financial
analyst on 9. Continaity was also reasonable especially during the latter half,
but Mission No. 7 in which 3 participants spent only 2 days each in country and
No. 8 in which two members were allowed only 1-1/2 dayr, each, hardly seems
adequate time for proper understanding at a fairly crucial stage in the project
cycle.
III. PROJECT OUTCOME
Closing Date & Proiect Cost
34.         The sixth supervision (July 1978) noting the delays, especially in
procuring the 10 skipjack fishing boats for Ambon cooperatives and the 2 carrier
vessels for PPM, coupled with DGF's request, recommended postponement of the
closing date from June 30, 1979 by 18 months to December 31, 1980. This was
agreed and IDA subsequently granted a request for a further postponement to
December 31, 1981 when the credit was formally closed.
35.         Final disbursement was in February 1982 at which point the credit
of US$6.5 M was fully disbursed. However, funds from Category 4 (unallocated)
and from the balance of Category 2 (trawlers) were transferred to Categories 1
& 3 to finance part of the cost overruns for other vessels and consultants.
Total project costs were the equivalent of US$16.9 M, an increase of 322 over
the appraisal estimate of US$12.8 M.   About  10% of the cost overrun is
attributable to changes in project design, e.g. carrier vessel specification,
and the remainder to project delays, higher equipment and material costs and to
much higher consultant costs than originally estimated.
36.         In fairness, these cost escalations were largely due to longer term
knock-on effects of the oil price crisis from 1973 onwards, the consequences of
which could not have been foreseen by the appraisal mission, even as late as June
1973.  However, it is also clear that more effective project and sub-project
management would have minimized delays and thereby would also have reduced the
cost overruns.
Performance at Completion and Longer Term Impact
37.         The PCR was based on the findings of a country visit in August 1982
and thus reviewed the project outcome and performance up to and including
1981/82. The audit visit in May 1990 was perforce limited by time constraints
to discussions in Jakarta and field studies of fish farming in East Java and the
marine fishing component at Ambon.



38.         As regards the Skipjack-Tuna Sub-project, the completion mission
concluded that the operational status and productivity of PPM and the fishing
cooperatives concerned was generally satisfactory and improving, although it was
still about 40Z below appraisal estimates. The shore facilities at Ambon were
well maintained and fully operational and the combined fleet of twenty PPF and
coop fishing vessels were apparently all serviceable. The world market price
for frozen skipjack had increased from US$520 per mt in 1978 to US$1045 per ton
in 1981 and this had helped PPM to record its first annual net profit, after
allowing for interest and depreciation charges.
39.         Notwithstanding  continuing  managerial  difficulties,  unresolved
disputes with cooperatives over prices and scarcity of live-bait for skipjack
pole and line fishing, the recalculated ERR for the Ambon/skipjack sub-project
is shown in the PCR as 29%, only 5% less than the appraisal estimate. In the
audit's view this figure is too high because it is based on an inaccurate and
over-optimistic assessment of PPM's fleet efficiency and productivity.   The
appraisal target for production per boat/year was 325 tons of skipjack, based
on 1.3 tons per day for 250 days at sea during each year. The PCR, para. 3.02,
incorrectly quotes the target as 1.3 tons per fishing day and assesses actual
catches as being only about 40% below appraisal targets. It will be evident that
there are fewer fishing days than total days at sea because the latter figure
includes days spent steaming to and from the fishing grounds and catching bait,
etc., which take up about 35% of the time. Consequently the equivalent target
catch per fishing day would be about 2.2 tons.  In reality, as can be seen from
Table 2, during the 12 yearb from 1978 and 1989 total annual landings from PPM's
fleet of 10 vessels never exceeded 1,360 tons or 42% of the target catch of 3,250
tons.
40.         Equivalent production figures for the 10 cooperative boats are not
available but from Supervision 8 onwards there are warnings about these craft
being poorly utilized and badly maintained. One has to assume therefore that
they spent less time at sea and caught fewer fish even than the PPM fleet. It
was planned that PPM would maintain the cooperative fleet but after the first
few years PPM had to give priority to its own boats, which is understandable,
but resulted in cooperative vessels frequently having to wait, idle, for several
weeks before they could be attended to. It is greatly to be regretted that nine
of the coop boats are now derelict and are reported to be beyond any hope of
repair or renovation, having given no more than six years of working life.  The
cooperatives concerned still owe more than Rp 382 M, plus interest, in respect
of vessel and fishing gear costs and were also reported to owe a further Rp 54
M to PPM for repair work carried out in the past and for fuel and ice supplied.
There seems to be little or no possibility of their being able to repay these
debts and the cooperative fishermen are, in effect, worse off now than before
the project started.
41.         The trend towards improved profitability noted in the PCR sadly
proved to be short-lived. In 1982 the average export price for skipjack slumped
from US$1045 to US$653 per ton and continued to decline thereafter to US$612 in
1986. Prices started to recover in 1987 but even by 1989 were still no more than



- 10 -
US$898. Given that costs of fuel, fishing gear and wages, etc., have also
increased over this period it is not surprising that PPM reverted to making net
losses annually from 1982 to date.
42.         On a more positive note, it is to the credit of PPM's staff and
management that their shore base and fleet are still operational, although it
is understood that the ice-plant and the ten skipjack boats are now nearing the
end of their working life and will need replacement within the next few years.
Live bait availability is less of a problem because fishing is now based mainly
on the use of aggregating rafts, known locally as rumpon, to attract the bait
fish and tuna *.4oals.  The fleet also now includes vessels equipped as long-
liners, which use frozen bait to catch other tuna species, such as Yellowfin,
which are more profitable than skipjack.
43.         It is understood that there are hopes that PPM might form the basis
for a fisheries nucleus estate development, an idea which seems well worth
investigation. PPM staff have developed considerable expertise over the years,
in fishing, fish handling onshore, marketing and the upkeep of vessels and other
equipment.  However, there will be need for a considerable injection of new
capital to replace worn out boats, plant and machinery and the question of
management capability will also have to be addressed.
44.         The outcome of the Fish Farming Sub-project was viewed very favorably
by the completion mission (PCR paras. 3.OS and 5.02), despite the high rate of
sub-loan arrears which was 44Z at completion. Although progress was slow to
start with, by the end there was a major improvement in aquacultural extension
services supported by a series of demonstration ponds in most of the areas served
by the project. Pond owners who took advantage of these facilities were enabled
to increase annual milkfish yields from 300 to around 1,000 kg/ha/yr and tiger
shrimp yields from an average of 50 kg to as much as 300 kg/ha/yr. Thit was
achieved by means of higher stocking rates and reduced mortality losses made
possible by better husbandry resulting from the provision of credit and extension
advice.
45.         During the project, BRI disbursed the equivalent of US$3.5 M in sub-
loans to 2,725 owners of about 9,000 ha of brackish-water ponds and in view of
the favorable outcome, and despite the persisting high arrears, the recalculated
ERR at completion was 28X, compared with the appraisal estimate of 24%. The
audit generally concurs with the PCR's assessment of the economics of this
component, which has continued to have a beneficial impact during the eight years
since project completion.
46.         The improvement in fish-farming extension has been reinforced since
1982 by the amalgamation of fisheries extension into an overall agricultural
extension program under the Directorate for Education, Training and Extension
of the Ministry of Agriculture. Experience gained during the project has also
been of benefit to subsequent developments, auch as two ADB funded brackish
aquaculture projects and the fish-farming component of the IDA funded Rural
Credit Project (Loan 827-IND). As shown inter-alia in Table 1, brackish water
pond fish production has increased over time, country wide, from 112,900 tons
in 1981 to 192,000 tons in 1987, whilst the area of brackish ponds has also



- 11 -
increased significantly, from 198,000 ha in 1981 to 263,000 ha in 1987. Wider
adoption of improved technology is evidenced by a growth in average productivity,
from 560 kg/ha/yr in 1981 to 730 kg/ha/yr in 1987 and although figures are not
available, the productivity growth in financial terms will be even more dramatic
because it is known that many ponds have been converted from milk-fish production
to the much more profitable tiger shrimp culture.
47.         The high level of arrears which remained outstanding at project
completion, has reduced steadily, albeit slowly sinze then to a stage where, as
shown in Table 3, the outstanding principal plus accrued interest now amounts
to only 9.52 of the original sub-loan total.  it appears that this has happened
with a minimum of pressure by BRI and that a more active program of regular
contact with borrowers, such as was recommended by IDA supervision, would have
virtually eliminated these arrears well before now.  The opportunity was taken
during the audit visit in East Java, to meet three pond owners/operators whose
loan accounts were still in arrears.  The following points emerged from the
discussion:
(a)   in two of the three cases, inheritance problems following the deaths
of the original borrowers hindered proper working of the ponds for
several years and so led to the arrears;
(b)   two appeared unaware, prior to the interview, of the serious nature
of their indebtedness, both owed about Rp  1 M yet both had earned
at least Rp 8 M from their ponds during 1989 and should therefore
be able to resume payments;
(c)   some ponds suffered from shortages of freshwater, with consequent
high mortality and low productivity because of excessive salinity
levels during the dry season. Production levels vary from year to
year, depending on stocking rates, salinity and predators, etc., up
to about 550 kg/ha for milkfish and 180-230 kg/ha for tiger shrimp.
Wherever possible, pond owners are stocking more shrimp and cutting
back on milkfish;
(d)   two of the pond owners employed experienced workers on a share-
cropping basis to operate their ponds.   The two owners had had
discussions with local extension officers, but never in company with
their workers who were said to be reluctant to adopt any new ideas.
The general view was that the extension service is much more active
now than in the past.
48.         As noted earlier, it is clear that BRI needs to establish closer and
more regular contact with borrowers in order to encourage accelerated repayment
of arrears and also to be informed about seasonal or other difficulties that may
arise. It is also clear that such action is highly relevant to the fish-farming
sub-loan portfolio of IDA Loan 827, in relation to which it was observed that
arrears currently stand at nearly 46% in East Java. Finally, it appears that
additional efforts are needed to ensure than extension messages reach not only
the pond owners but also their share-cropping workers who are largely responsible
for day-to-day pond management and upkeep.



- 12 -
IV. FINDINGS AND LESSONS
General
49.          The audit is in general agreement with the PCR comment that "...The
project's objectives were achieved except for the poor financial control on
operations and the limited number of fish farmers assisted." (PCR, Highlights,
para. i). Numerous problems were experienced en route, as detailed in the PCR
but despite these difficulties tl'e overall outcome may be described as generally
satisfactory, at least as far as the Fish Farming Sub-project is concerned. With
regard to the Skipjack Tuna Sub-project, although the PCR is correct in its
statement concerning objectives having been attained, they have subsequently
proved to be less sustainable.   This has been particularly so with the
cooperative owned fishing vessels, most of which are now derelict.
50.         The completion mission identified four main lessons arising from the
project which are set out in para. 5.05 of the PCR. Although in a different
order, they are as follows:
(a)   project design should be more realistic as regards components (e.g.
trawlers and ice boxes should have been omitted) and to the
implementation schedule;
(b)   subloans should be recovered from cooperatives or fishermen whenever
fish catches are delivered and not once yearly;
(c)   management  and training are key  factors  for projezt  success;
management requirements and the use of experienced consultants in
managerial positions, if need be, should be considered as priorities
in future;
(d)   the capital structure (debt/equity) of project beneficiaries should
be adequate to prevent deterioration of their financial standing.
Although the audit is in general agreement with these conclusions, it also
considers that the analysis contained in the PCR did not penetrate sufficiently
to identify other important issues. These matters are therefore discussed below.
A.    Inadeguacies in Proiect Desizn
51.         The PCR concluded that project design was unrealistic as regards
implementation time schedules and that in consequence there was a ten week delay
in the project becoming effective and an eventual two and a half year time
overrun before project completion. Of these, the delay in effectiveness seems
to be the most crucial, particularly because of its cause. The Project Agreement
was signed on June 14, 1974 and was scheduled to be made effective only four
months later, on October 18, 1974.   However, amongst the conditions was a
requirement that the consultant management specialist for PPM and one of the fish
pond experts had to be recruited and in post before the credit could be declared
effective.



- 13 -
52.         Overseas recruitment is rotoriously difficalt and time consuming
under any circumstances and to demand that two such key people be recruited and
in post within only four months seems quite unreasonable and it was inevitable
that there would be delays. However the crucial point is that recruitment to
such tight timings is bound to restrict choice to the possible detriment of the
project.  In the audit's view it is much more important to select the right
person for a key post, such as management specialist, even at the cost of a few
months, than to insist that the post be filled by a given date. It is therefore
recommended that effectiveness conditions related to recruitment should be worded
in a more constructive and less restrictive way in future.
53.         The PCR concluded that project design was defective as regards some
of its components, and in particular suggested that the two components which were
eventually dropped, namely trawlers and small ice plant, should not have been
included in the first place or should have been deleted during appraisal. It
was known from the outset, viz. SAR para. 2.08, that inshore waters, especially
in the Java Sea, were being heavily fished by all and sundry including the
existing trawler fleet, even though the area was ostensibly reserved for the
local artisanal/subsistence fishing communities. Audit therefore agrees that
the inclusion of additional trawlers was inappropriate and that a better approach
would have been to induce some of the existing trawl fleet to divert to other
underfished areas, such as the fishing grounds off South Kalimantan.
54.         Cancellation of the provision for small ice plants in areas served
by the Fish Farming Sub-project was agreed because it was found that there was
adequate larger scale commercial ice-making capacity operating in the market and
no demand emerged for the proposed smaller units.   The audit endorses the
decision to cancel the ice-plant but was unable to judge whether or not the
situation could have been foreseen during either preparation or appraisal. It
could have been a case of unrealistic planning, as suggested by the PCR, or
equally well an instance where the project was overtaken by de,.elcpments
originating elsewhere.
55.         The design and specification of fishing vessels selected for sale
to fishing cooperatives in the Ambon area was another aspect in which project
design proved inadequate and in the audit's view, led to the rapid deterioration
and final breakdown of nine of the ten vessels after at most only six years
service.  As late as November 1977, long after the orders for boat construction
were placed, there were still disagreements (as reported by Supervisicn Mission
No. 5) over the selection of cooperatives to receive the vessels, and arguments
persisted for several years thereafter about vessel costs and manner of
construction, etc.  Cooperative members claimed that they were not consulted
beforehand about vessel size and design and found themselves landed with boats
which were too costly to buy, operate and maintain.
56.         It seems clear that the cost advantages of building 20 boats to the
same specification weighed more heavily with project planners  than othnL
considerations and that the cooperatives, in consequence found themselves having
to accept vessels which were too large and too expensive for their limited means.
The craft were too large to be beached in the traditional way for routine hull



- 14 -
maintenance by their owners, so they had no option but to rely on PPM to service
the vessels on the project slipway. This was fine until PPM found that with
increasing age, their own vessels to which they had to give priority, were taking
up most of the available slipway time, forcing the coop boats to wait for long
periods before they could be attended to.
57.         Thus, Supervision Missions Nos. 8 and 9 reported that the cooperative
fleet was being poorly utilized and badly maintained, that there were bad
relations between PPM and the cooperatives and that loan repayments to BRI were
falling badly into arrears. Somehow this situation escaped the attention of the
Completion Mission during August 1982, which regarded the cooperatives as
operating profitably, (PCR, para. 3.02), but by 1985 only one of the coop boats
remained in service and that has been operated by PPM on behalf of the
cooperative concerned.
58.         It is clear that project design was defective in not having consulted
the fishermen concerned before decisions were taken as to which cooperatives
should benefit and what kind of boat should be built. As was well demonstrated
in this case, it does not follow that a fishing vessel design suitable for use
by a commercial company will also be appropriate to other circumstances. Each
group of user should have a vessel designed to meet their particular needs.
Design was also unrealistic in over-estimating the longer term ability of PPM
to maintain a large fleet of cooperative vessels in addition to its own fleet.
It is therefore recommended in future that project design be based, inter alia,
on the principle that intended beneficiary groups should have a major say in
determining the nature of inputs from which they are expected to benefit but for
which they will also have to pay. It is also essential that preparation and
appraisal missions, and especially the latter, must view these matters much more
critically in future to ensure that timescales are realistic and that components
are properly planned before appraisal, or if that is not possible, that the
project contains adequate provision for the necessary planning and design work.
B.    Oreanization of Fisheries Credit
59.         According to the PCR, paras. 2.04, 3.04 and 5.05, the main lesson
learnt was that credit recovery should take place at the time of catch delivery
or pond marketing and not once yearly, so as to improve project financial
control. However, in the view of the audit, this was merely an end-product from
the real lesson for future reference, which is that appraisal should not have
allowed a fisheries credit program to proceed without including provision for
the necessary remedial action, knowing that the agency concerned, BRI, lacked
experience of fisheries credit management, lacked staff particularly at district
level who had any real understanding of the fisheries sector for effective sub-
loan appraisal and lacked any mechanism for collecting repayment installments
at the fish landing beach or beside the fishpond.
60.         Considering that the fisheries credit program, including the fish
farming component and sub-loans to fishing cooperatives and others for skipjack
catcher vessels and trawlers, was originally planned to utilize nearly 601 of
total project provision and that BRI was to be responsible for managing all of
the lending, it is remarkable that no specific credit expertise was included in



- 15 -
any of the supervision missions. There were also doubts from the outset (SAR,
para. 4.16 and Annex 7, paras. 8 and 9) about BRI's preparedness to ergage in
a substantial fisheries credit program because of the above-mentioned
shortcomings and because BRI's lending to the fisheries sector had until then
comprised less than 2% of the bank's loan portfolio and was experiencing arrears
of about 402. There was a clear need for someone having particular experience
of the problems of fisheries credit recovery and their causes and solutions, to
advise BRI and help set up an appropriate mechanism and staffing for this
purpose, concurrently with the start of lending. Ideally such a post should have
been included in the technical assistance component and in this regard the audit
considers that GOI and IDA missed an opportunity to male a really worthwhile
contribution to fisheries development in Indonesia.
61.         Given the problems they have experienced, it is greatly to the credit
of BRI staff that they have succeeded in reducing fish pond credit arrears to
the present low level.  In the process some of the BRI staff will also have
gained useful experience of some aspects af the fisheries sector, but by means
of trial and error rather than by a planned and constructive approach.
C.    Management and Training
62.         One of the principal findings of the Completion Mission was that
adequate management and training were key factors in project success and that
the use of experienced consultants in managerial positions, if need be, should
be considered as priorities in future projects (PCR, paras. 1.05 and 5.05).
Concern about the managerial capacity of PPM was also an issue during preparation
and appraisal (SAR, para. 4.13 and Annex 8), to the extent that the recruitment
of a management specialist to advise and assist PPM's top management team, was
made a condition of effectiveness.
63.         The original intention, arising from the acute managerial problems
experienced during implementation of the Credit 211-IND, Aer Tembaga project,
was that the provision of experienced consultants would strengthen PPM's
management and organizational structure. As shown in SAR para. 3.21 and Annex
10, it was proposed that the technical assistance team would comprise the
Management Specialist/Team Leader, plus an electrical/mechanical engineer, a
civil engineer and a naval architect/master boat-builder.   However, what
eventuated was a three man team consisting of a technical adviser, a master
fisherman and a refrigeration engineer. The supervision record is not very clear
as to how these changes came about but it is apparent that the original emphasis
on strengthening the managerial function in PPM was changed to concentrate on
reinforcing PPM's technical capacity.
64.         As acknowledged earlier, in para. 27, the project team worked well
in their various technical fields but as none of them occupied a managerial
position their impact on improving the management function was minimal. Sadly
therefore, this was one very important area in which the project failed to meet
its objective because GOI and IDA allowed their attention to be diverted
elsewhere.



- 16 -
65.         The lesson in this case is that where inadequate management is
identified as an issue during project preparation/appraisal, and it is agreed
that its strengthening is to be an objective, then the means must be
unequivocally specified, i.e. the personnel concet.Led and their terms of
reference, and no changes should be permitted that in any way detract from that
principal objective.
D.    Capital Structure of State Enterprises
66.         The audit endorses the views expressed in para. 3.04 of the PCR
concerning the need to rectify an imbalance in the capital structure of PPM by
which too large a proportion of GOI's investment is in the form of loans rather
than  equity.    The  consequent  very  heavy  interest  charges,  coupled with
depreciation charges which, as the PCR points out were about 40% higher than
justified by the value of assets, have been major factors producing the annual
net losses recorded by PPM in eleven of the past twelve years. It is also noted
that there has been no change in the situation since publication of the PCR in
1983.
67.         It is appreciated that the position is complicated by GOI policy
toward state enterprises in general, and therefore it is not a simple matter to
adjust PPM's debt/equity ratio along the lines suggested in the PCR. However,
given that PPM will shortly be seeking additional capital to replace some of its
fleet and shore equipment, and that consicaration may be given to cteating a
fisheries nucleus enterprise based on PPM. it is recommended that debt/equity
ratio issue be reviewed at that time.
E.    Economic Reassessment
68.         According to Annexes 12 and 13 "f the SAR, financial and economic
rates of return were calculated for each cf :he components, as tabula vd below.
However, there is no -eference in the SAR tV any weighted overall ERR assessment
for the project as a wvhole and the referenc;- to such a figure in the PCR Basic
Data Sheet is therefore erroneous. The presentation of FRR/ERR figures in the
PCR HIghlights, para. (ii), as being represe:tative of anything more than the
two components concerned, is also somewhat mJL'eading.
69.         The Completion Mission selected the 5 ha fish-pond in South Sulawesi
(Component No. 8) and PPM (Component No. 1) for re-evaluation, vide PCR para.
5.02, with the results shown in the table below, in parenthesis.   The other
components were not re-evaluated and it was not posEible, therefore for the PCR
to include an overall assessment of ERR for the project.



- 17 -
Com2onent (Annex 13)           FRR X       ERR 2
FRR         ERR
(1)   PPM (includes shore plant
and catcher fleet)           34 (26)     34 (29)
(2)   Cooperative tuna boats         20           22
(3)   Beach seine                    36           42
(4)   30 GT trawler                  20          22
(5)   Ice plant                      30           31
(6)   Java 1 ha fish pond            22           23
(7)   Java 1 ha shrimp pond          38           39
(8)   Sulawesi 5 ha fish pond        22 (28)      24 (30)
(9)   Sulawesi 5 ha shrimp pond      26          28
70.         Although the audit is not wholly convinced about the use of ERR as
a method of measuring project outcome, it is considered that the PCR should have
been more explicit as to the limited extent of its economic reassessment. The
audit mission also lacked time or adequate data for ERR recalculations, but on
the basis of its overall review of project outcome, the position is likely to
be:
(1)   PPM; at best little more than break-even after 12 years, with major
new investment needs shortly, ERR likely to be less than 10%;
(2)   Coop boats; 901 derelict after less than 6 years service and large
debts still owing; ERR has to be negative;
(3)   Beach seine net; for catching bait, small item of minor economic
significance;
(4)   Trawlers; cancelled, ERR not applicable;
(5)   Iceplant; cancelled, ERR not applicable;
(6/9) Fish Farming; now well established in all areas and continuing to
improve, with good markets and high prices, overall ERR could be at
least 302.



- 19 -
Table 1
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 480-IND)
SUMMARY OF FISHERIES STATISTICS FOR SELECTED YEARS
(A)   FISH PRODUCTION (mt)               1981             1983             1 9 8 7
Total                           1.914.505        2.214.481      2.670.413
Marine Fisheries                1,408,272        1,682.019      2,017.350
Inland (capture)                  264.983          265,562        276,291
Fish Farming (total)              241.250          266.900        376.772
Brackish water ponds              112,916          134.072        192,123
Freshwater ponds                   78,224           79,681         95,353
Other (cages & paddy)              50,110           53,147         89,296
(B)   FISHERMEN (No.)
Full time                         579,336          602,477        679,714
Part time (major)                 411,792          460,291        508,173
Part time (minor)                 113.521          163.875        184.543
Total                           1.104,649        1.226.643      1.372.430
(C)   FISH FARMERS (No.)
Brackish water                    111,269          121,023        145,235
Freshwater                        610,476          713,632      1,057,281
Other                             241.687          254.705        347.839
Total                             963.432        1.089.360      1.550.355
(D)   AREA UNDER CULTURE (ha)
Brackish water ponds              198,210          220,365        263,162
Freshwater ponds                   47,085           41,783         46,528
Other                              96.958          137.434         99,681
Total area (gross)                342,253          371,054        409,371
Total area (net)                 (306,318)        (326,885)      (369,351)
Note: 1987 is most recent published data. Data provided by Directorate General
for Fisheries.



- 20 -
Table 2
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 480-IND)
PERFORMANCE OF PPM OWNED FLEET OF TEN X 30 GT SKIPJACK FISHING VESSELS /a
Year       Total Catch       Actual as X         Days at Sea   Catch/boat/day
(mt)         of Appraisal             _              (mt)
Appraisal
target          3250                 -               2500             1.3
1978              732               22.5              1370             0.5
1979             1069               32.9              2535             0.4
1980              994               30.6              2276             0.4
1981 /b          1205               37.1              2440             0.5
1982              915               28.1              2158             0.4
1983             1337               41.1              2051             0.6
1984              620               19.1              n.a.             n.a.
1985              993               30.5              n.a.             n.a.
1986             1359               41.8              n.a.             n.a.
1987              992               30.5              n.a.             n.a.
1988              509               15.7              n.a.             n.a.
1989              322                9.9              n.a.             n.a.
Notes:      /a    There are no production data available for the 10
cooperative owned fishing vessels.
Lb    The project was formally completed w.e.f. 12/31/81.
Source:     Perum Perikanan Maluku (PPM) reports.



- 21 -
Table 3
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 480-IND)
BRACKISH-WATER FISH FARMING CREDIT PROGRAM
FINANCIAL SUMMARY AS AT APRIL 1990
E. Java     C. Java      W. Java  S. Sulawesi    Total
Beneficiaries                 544        1,226          263         692      2,725
Pond Area (ha)              3,234        2,650          797      2,468       9,149
Total Lent
(Rp. million)              589.5        342.0        149.0       535.4       1616.0
Recoveries (April)
Principal (Rp '000)         670.3          -            -           -          670.3
Interest  (Rp '000)          94.0          -            -           -           94.0
Total      (Rp '000)        764.3          -            -           -          764.3
Arrears
No. of accounts                59           39           45           6         149
Principal (Rp '000)        60,967       10,994       15,021         955      87,936
Interest  (Rp '000)        47.350       11.198        6.806         352      65.706
Total      (Rp '000)      108,317       22,192       21,827       1.307      153,672
Total arrears as Z of
amount lent              18.4%          6.5%       14.6%        0.2Z        9.52
Source:     Bank Rakyat Indonesia, Jakarta.



95'   ,TH\ILAND                       IjO'                  1115   <s             120'     t             125' n~~~LrV,  ' .   PHILIPPINES                                 1R251
|@_< P _, SocthCh  oS   f \,4 (   FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT|
\>8 - 7> >\ ( ~~~) )-\---                                                                                                                                    Fi'tSa  ,    sh  Po.d  P,o ect  Areos................. 
t;tArERA X \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----; Terrtoriol Wo, Bonaries
s   RE                                                                                  M ,(.,                                   Ier ti,,l Bo.d,,e,J/ss ) 
=n           ,                      ' _  ~~~,=J:&  -S:--:---------  -Bil.
100_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.   KA IMA IV rANoAour    e
O I r,0 200MATES60Rn7n  o Sa d2 wd6br d~ z  
O   100   200   30a400  500  600  00 EoO 200 I,OO Wb.cnr-DSrner46^^rx4rrrr0 rrd a<, 
2!5KIOME2n                                               1lO                      c7o2Eols              |IZf13'   c                                                 1     69J           JPUAY19b



