FILE  COPY                               CIFULATING COPY                             C-L
Report No. 305-IND
Appraisal of Fisheries   T0 BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Credit Project                                        RETURN TO
Indonesia                                         REPORTS DESK
WITHIN
May 7, 1974                                            ONE WEEK
Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Intemational Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bdnk Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1                           Indonesian Rupiah (Rp) 415
Rp  1                          US$0.-0024
Rp  1 million                  US$2,410
WETCITS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ONI  -    Government of Indonesia
BRI -    Bank Rakjat Indonesla
DGF  -    Directorate General of Fisheries
PNM  -    PN State Fisheries Enterprise, Maluku
FISCAL YEAR
April 1st to March 31st



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUIMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS           .............................    i-vi
I.   INTRODUCTION          ..............................1.......... 
II. BACKGROUND ............   1
A.   General .........         ..........................        1
B.   The Fisheries Sector  ........ ............                 2
III. TRE PROJECT                         ........   8
A.   Definition ......        .....................              8
B.   Detailed Features ..................        ..              9
C.   Cost Estimates .....          .......................      14
D.   Financing .................................                16
E.   Procurement .....          ..........................      18
F.   Disbursement .....          .........................      20
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....            .....................     20
A.    Introduction .....       .........................        20
B.   Institutions ..............      ..     ...............    21
C.   Lending Terms and Conditions ..............         .      24
D.   Accounts and Audit ........... .. *   ...........          26
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND OPERATING RESULTS  .........         ...       26
VI.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .................           .      29
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ...................            ...................     30
SCHEDULE A - Project Lending Terms and Conditions
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Indonesia in May/June 1973. The mission was composed of Messrs.
S.J. Khoo, F. Kada, B. Macleod (IDA), A. Choksi, P. Mornement, and T. Yamamoto
(Consultants).



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Marine Fisheries
Table 1-1 Number of Marine Fishing Vessels Registered in
Tndonesia (1971)
Table 1-2 Landings of Sea Fisheries, 1967-1972
Table 1-3 Sea Fisheries Landings by Fishing Vessels from
Java Island and Total Landings for Indonesia
Table 1-4 Foreign Capital and Joint Venture Enterprises
for Shrimp Fishing and Processing
2.   Brackish Water Ponds
Table 2-1 Area of Brackish Water Ponds by Principal Producing
Areas, 1971
Table 2-2 Area, Average Size and Production of Fish Ponds
in the Principal Producing Areas, 1971
3.   Major Project Components and Their Specifications
Table 3-1 Proposed Project Areas
Table 3-2 Area to be Improved in 5 Years
Table 3-3 Demonstration Ponds to be Constructed in.5 Years
Table 3-4 Required Demonstration Pond Supervisors and
Extension Workers
Chart WB-8044  Example of Acceptable Design for 30 G.T. Wooden
Skipjack Live Bait Pole and Line Fishing Vessel
Chart WB-7843  Example of Acceptable Design for 100 G.T. Wooden
Skipjack Carrier
Chart WB-7841  Ambon Cold Store and Ice Plant
Chart WBE-7839 Improvements to PNM Ship Repair Facilities at
Ambon
Chart WB-7842  Example of Acceptable Design for 30 G.T. Wooden
Trawler
Chart WB-7864  Typical Layout for 5 Ha Demonstration Fish Pond
4.   Estimated Project Implementation Schedule
5.   Unit Costs
6.   Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
7.   Bank Rakjat Indonesia
Table 7-1 Summarized Balanced Sheets at December 31 Each Year
Table 7-2 Summarized Income and Expenditure Statements
Table 7-3  Outstanding Loans and Arrears by Economic Sectors
As at the End of 1972
Table 7-4 Organizational Chart of the Head Office of the Bank
Rakjat Indonesia



- 3 -
Table 7-5 Organizational Chart of the Provincial or Regional
Offices of the Bank Rakjat Indonesia
8.   PN State Fisheries Enterprise, Maluku (PNM)
Table 8-1 Balance Sheets At Decenber 31 Each Year
Table 8-2 Income and Expenditure Statements
Table 8-3  Organization Chart
9.   Directorate General of Fisheries
Table 9-1  Fisheries Organization and Administration
Table 9-2  Organizational Chart of the Directorate General
of Fisheries
Table 9-3  1973-74 Budget:  Directorate General of Fisheries
Table 9-4  Training Institutions Operated by the Directorate
General of Fisheries
Table 9-5  Provincial Fisheries Service, Central Java
10.   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Personnel
11.   Marketing and Prices
Table 11-1 Export Volume of Fishery Products 1967-72
Table 11-2 Current Prices
Table 11-3 Skipjack Monthly Average Ex-Vessel Price in Japan
12.   Table 12-1 Projected Income Statement:  P.N. State Fisheries
Enterprise, Malukui
Table 12-2 Projected Cash Flow: P.N. State Fisheries Enterprise,
Maluku
Table 12-3 Projected Income Statement:  30 G.T. Wooden Skipjack
Boat
Table 12-4 Projected Cash Flow:  30 G.T. Wooden Skipjack Boat
Table 12-5 Projected Income Statement:  Beach Seine
Table 12-6 Projected Cash Flow:  Beach Seine
Table 12-7 Projected Income Statement:  30 G.T. Wooden Trawler
Table 12-8 Projected Cash Flow:  30 G.T. Wooden Trawler
Table 12-9 Projected Income Statement:  South Sulawesi
Development of Fish Pond:  5 Ha
Table 12-10 Projected Cash Flow:  South Sulawesi Development
of Fish Pond: 5 Ha
Table 12-11 Projected Income Statement: South Sulawesi
Development of Shrimp Pond:  5 Ha
Table 12-12 Projected Cash Flow:  South Sulawesi Development
of Shrimp Pond: 5 Ha
Table 12-13 Projected Income Statement: Java Development of
Fish Pond: 1 Ha
Table 12-14 Prolected Cash Flow: Java Development of Fish
Pond: 1 Ha
Table 12-15 Projected Income Statement: Java Development of
Shrimp Pond: 1 Ha



-4-
Table 12-16 Projected Cash Flow: Java Development of Shrimp
Pond: 1 Ha
Table 12-17 Projected Income Statement: 5T Ice Plant/15 T
Tce Store
Table 12-18 Projected Cash Flow: 5T Ice Plant/15 T Ice Store
13. Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Table 13-1 Economic Rates of Return
MAP
IBRD-2853R
IBRD-10570



INDrlNESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Objective
i.        The proposed project would assist the Indonesian Government's
strategy to increase skipjack tuna landings, milkfish and shrimp production
from existing brackish water ponds, and fish and shrimp catch by trawling.
The purpose of these activities is to make fuller use of Indonesia's
fisheries resources for domestic consumption and export. This is expected
to result in increased employment opportunities and incomes for fishermen.
The Project
ii.       The project, to be implemented over a five-year investment period,
would comprise:
(a) Skipjack tuna subproject involving the provision of:
(i)  about 20 pole and line fishing boats for skipjack fishing;
(ii) two carrier vessels to increase fishing efficiency;
and
(iii) on-shore supporting facilities, including an ice-
making, freezer and storage complex to preserve
the quality of the skipjack tuna catch, two small
jetties for provisioning the fishing boats and one
for loading and unloading the carrier vessels, repair
facilities (workshop and a slipway) to service project
vessels, and about 54 lift or beach seine nets to catch
live bait required for skipjack tuna fishing.
(b)  Fish pond subproject for the:
(i)  improvement of about 15,000 ha of existing smallholder
brackish water ponds in Java and Sulawesi through the
introduction of simple improvements to pond construction
and techniques of fish culture;
(ii) development of about 45 one to five-ha ponds to demonstrate
the improvements; and
(iii) establishment of about nine 5-ton ice plants to provide
ice for the preservation of milkfish and shrimp from
project ponds enroute to market.



- ii -
(c)  Trawler sib roiec   involving the purchase of about 25
trawlers for the trawling of fish and shrimp in the Java
Sea.
(d) Technical assistance required for effective implementa-
tion of the project.
iii.      Under the Dro4j2ct, che Government of Indonesia (GOI) would make
available part of the IDA credi: to the State Fisheries Enterprise at Ambon
(PNM) for the purchase of ten pole and line skipjack fishing boats, two
carrier vessels and about 27 lift or beach seine nets, and construction of
on-shore facilities, including an ice making, freezer and cold storage
complex, jetties, repair facilities and a slipway. GOI would also make
available part of the credit to the Bank Rakjat Indonesia (BRI), one of five
state-owned banks and responsible for lending in the agricultural sector,
including fisheries, for on-lending to smallholder pond operators, fisheries
cooperatives and other private entrepreneurs for pond improvements, and
purchase of up to ten additional fishing boats, about 27 lift or beach seine
nets for bait fishermeni trawlers and small ice plants. The provision of
credit would include incremental working capital. PNM would purchase and
market the catch of the cooperatives and private fishermen. The carrier
vessels would be operated by PNM to supply the fishing boats with ice, fuel
and supplies and transport the skipjack catches to the cold store facilities.
Technical experts required for project implementation would be recruited and
financed by the IDA credit. In addition these experts would train local
personnel in the operation of the project.
iv.       Credit to smalTholder pond operators would finance simple improve-
ments to ponds whicht with the use of fertilizers and pesticides, would
increase yields of milkfish and shrimp about 4 times more than the present
average yield for all ponds. About 15,000 ha of ponds in Java and South
Sulawesi have been identified for this type of improvement, of which 8,000 ha
would produce both milkfish and shrimp, and 7,000 ha would be primarily for
milkfish production. Ponds producing both shrimp and milkfish would be in
coastal areas with sufficientlv high salinity levels required for successful
shrimp production. Pond development for milkfish alone would be carried out
further inland. Investmient would be primarily for labor intensive canal
excavation, sluice gate widening and relocation, pond levelling, and dike
improvement.  Incremental working capital needs for initial purchases by
pond operators of fry, fertilizers and pesticides for their first season
of production would also be financed. Investments would average about
US$300 equivalent per ha for ponds producing both milkfish and shrimp, and
US$150 equivalent per ha for ponds producing milkfish. Under the project,
about 45 one to five-ha ponds would be developed to demonstrate the techniques
for improved production to pond operators. Extension services in the pro-
ject areas would be expanded and improved, and the Directorate General of
Fisheries would employ, with funds provided under the project, three pond
fisheries experts to develop the demonstration ponds, assist pond operators
to carry out their improvements and train the fisheries extension officers.



- iii -
v.        Credit to fisheries cooperatives and private entrepreneurs would
finance nine small ice plants each with a capacity of 5 tons of block ice
per day and storage space for 15 tons of ice. These plants will be suitably
located to supply ice for the marketing of project shrimp and milkfish.
Credit would also be provided to finance the purchase by privatie fishermen
and cooperatives of up to 25 trawlers to be used to increase the production
of shrimp and fish from the rich trawling grounds of the Java sea.
Organization
vi.       The Directorate General of Fisheries (DGF) would coordinate,
supervise, and guide project implementation in addition to providing the
project experts, demonstration ponds and extension services.
vii.      BRI's management is satisfactory and it has considerable experience
in short-term lending in the agriculture sector. While it is competent to
make financial appraisals, it lacks technical expertise in project evaluation.
Therefore, in making sub-loans under the project, BRI would rely on the
expertise of DGF and the project experts in carrying out the technical
appraisal of sub-loans. Since BRI's appraisal of project sub-loans would
involve close cooperation with the technical staff of DGF and PNM, BRI would
employ for the duration of the project, a locally recruited fisheries officer
on its staff to liaise with the project experts. Such an officer had recently
been employed.
Costs and Financing
viii.     Total project costs are estimated at US$12.9 million equivalent
of which about US$3.8 million (30%) is the estimated foreign exchange
component.
Project Cost Summary
(US$ million)
Project Component              Local      Foreign         Total
Skipjack Tuna Sub-project             2.0         2.1           4.1
Fish Pond Sub-project                 3.9         0.4           4.3
Trawlers Sub-project                  1.0         0.4           1.4
Contingencies                         2.2         0.9           3.1
9.1         3.8          12.9
ix.       The proposed IDA credit of US$6.5 million equivalent would finance
50% of total project cost, including about US$2.7 million of local currency
cost. The credit would supply about 58% of BRI support of the project,
53% of PNM's investment costs and 14% of GOI contribution to project cost.
The investment cost of the demonstration ponds would be financed by GOI.
x.        The IDA credit would be on standard terms to GOI which would retain
an amount to finance an estimated 80% of the costs of the project experts.



- iv -
GOI would make available the remainder of the credit to BRI and PNM under
subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to IDA. The credit to BRI would be
at an interest rate of 4% per annum, and repayable as BRI received repayments
from its sub-borrowers. BRI would extend loans to sub-borrowers at an
interest rate of 12% per anntm. GOI lending to PNM would also be at 12% per
annum. GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk. The project experts would
be employed by GOI through DGF. Costs of the experts for the skipjack tuna
subproject would be borne by PNM which would implement the major part of this
subproject. To ensure that sufficient funds are available as needed for
timely and efficient project execution, GOI would make available to DGF
sufficient funds to cover the estimated expenditures for extension services,
experts, training, demonstration pond development and other expenditures
required to be made by DGF under the project. Funds to meet the estimated
expenditures of each quarter would be available to DGF not later than the
fifteenth day of such quarter. As a condition of effectiveness, the budget
of DCF for project expenditures up to March 31, 1975 shall have been approved
and ;'unds equivalent to US$200,000 will be available for project expenditures.
xi.       Loans to PNM and BRT sub-borrowers would be up to 85% (95% for
lift or beach seine nets) of the cost of the investments, which would serve
as collateral. In the case of project experts for the skipjack tuna sub-
project, an estimated 80% of their costs would be financed by the IDA Credit,
with the remaining 20% to be financed from PNM's own resources. The terms
and repayment of sub-loans would be appropriate to the investment made.
BRI and PNM would maintain separate accounts of project transactions to be
submitted (together with balance sheets and income statements covering
their tctal operations) to IDA within four months of the close of each
financial year. BRI would also submit to IDA progress reports of its
operations under the project. BRI accounts are satisfactorily audited by
Bank Indonesia.
Disbursement and Procurement
xii.      Against appropriate statements, IDA disbursements would be:
(a) For the project experts, 100% of foreign exchange expenditures or 100%
of local expenditures against salaries. The proposed disbursement procedure
would allow IDA to disburse a similar share of the cost of both foreign and
local experts. (b) 58% of loan disbursements by BRI. (c) 50% of total
expenditures by PNM. Disbursements would be made against required supporting
documents except for reimbursements for sub-loans by BRI. Documentation for
BRI sub-loans would be retained by BRI and be available for inspection by IDA
supervision missions.
xiii.     Sub-borrowers for vessels would mainly be operators who already
own several fishing boats. Additional vessels must be equipped in a manner
compatible with the owner's fleet so as to minimize operations and main-
tenance costs. Therefore, the wooden hulls and the engines and other
equipment would be procured separately. There are a number of qualified local
shipyards capable of making the wooden hulls for the skipjack boats, carrier
vessels and trawlers, and these will therefore be procured from pre-qualified
local shipyards following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to



IDA. Transportation difficulties and the need to match the equipment to be
instaxlled would prohibit hull procurement from abroad. Manufacturers of
vessel engines, fishing gear and other equipment are already well represented
in Indonesia and provide adequate service facilities and spare parts. There-
fore, PNM would order the make of equipment of its choice from suppliers pre-
viously pre-qualified through international advertisement. Other sub-borrowers
would do this through BRI. To the extent practical, bulking of sub-loan
applications would be arranged by BRI to effect cost savings. Shore facilities
at Ambon for ice making, freezer, and cold storage complex, jetties and repair
facilities would be procured and installed under a single contract and in
accordance with international competitive bidding procedures. Improvement of
the small, scattered fish ponds will be done over five years largely by
manual labor provided in part by the pond operators themselves. This work
would, therefore, not be suitable for bidding procedures and would be arranged
on an ad-hoc basis by the pond operators and extension service staff.
Similarly, lift or beach seine nets would, because of their small cost, be
procured through prudent shopping by the sub-borrowers. The nine small ice
plants will be procured through international competitive bidding.
Benefits and Justification
xiv.      The proposed project would make an important contribution to GOI's
development effort to increase fisheries production for domestic consumption
and export. Implementation of the project would increase fisheries pro-
duction by about 18,000 tons per annum. A significant proportion would be
exported, including some 6,500 tons of skipjack tuna and the larger share
of the shrimp valued at an estimated US$5.7 million at current prices.
xv.       The project would:
(a)  benefit about 9,000 fish pond operators and many
fishermen (most of whom are engaged in small, mainly
subsistence operations), either as members of
participating fisheries cooperatives or individual
entrepreneurs, and their dependents;
(b)  provide annually at full development, about 1,000 per-
manent jobs, part-time employment for about 1,100 bait
fishermen, and some 3 million man days work as a result
of pond improvements; and
(c)  employ about 10,000 man years of labor for construction
activities over the 5-year development period. Through
its provision of the demonstration ponds and technical
expertise, the project would have a favorable demonstration
effect on pond improvements outside the project and would
also provide experience valuable to future fisheries
operations, including the fisheries credit activities of
BRI. The project ice plants would likewise promote the
use of ice in the marketing of fish.



- vi -
xvi.      Incremental incomes and financial returns would be sufficiently
high to make the proposed investments attractive. The financial rates of
re:urn would range from 20% to 38%, and the economic rates of return are
est:imated to be from 22% to 42%.
xvii.     The appropriate assurances having been obtained, the project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.5 million.



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The proposed project would be the sixteenth Bank Group project for
agricultural development in Indonesia, and the second in the fisheries sub-
sector.
1.02      The on-going fisheries project at Aer Tembaga in North Sulawesi 1/
which seeks to develop and expand skipjack tuna landings in the region is off
to a good start after substantial delays. The principal problems have been
in the recruitment of qualified consultants and in the appointment of suitable
local personnel. These problems have been resolved. All consultants have now
been appointed and are in position. Suitable local personnel have also been
appointed. Contracts for construction of the on-shore supporting freezer
and cold store facilities have been awarded.
1.03      The proposed fisheries credit project was prepared with the
assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program which visited Indonesia
during July/September 1972 and January/February 1973. This report is
based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Indonesia
during May/June 1973, and was composed of Messrs. S. J. Khoo, F. Kada (IDA),
A. Choksi, P. C. Mornement, and T. Yamamoto (Consultants). Mr. B. MacLeod
(YP) assisted the mission during appraisal.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General -/
2.01      Indonesia is the world's largest archipelago.  It comprises some
3,000 islands with a total land area of nearly 2 million km2 scattered over
a wide expanse of ocean (see attached Map IBRD-2853R). The country's
population, which has been increasing at an annual rate of around 2% is
estimated at about 121 million in mid 1972, and concentrated in the four
most important islands of Java (64%), Sumatra (17%), Sulawesi (7%) and
Kalimantan (4%).
1/   Indonesia Fisheries Project, Report No. PA-50a (June 22, 1970).
Total project cost was US$4.3 million of which US$3.5 million would
be financed by IDA.
2/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and prospects of the
Indonesian economy is given in Development Issues for Indonesia, Report
No. 25-IND, December 1, 1972; and The Indonesian Economy - Recent
Developments and Prospects for 1974/75, Report No. 286-IND, November
26, 1973.



-2-
2.02      Since 1966, the Government of Tndonesia (GOI) has successfully
carried out a program of economic recovery. It has stabilized the currency
and reduced the rate of inflation. In contrast to the economic stagnation
of the period prior to the mid 1960s, the gross domestic product in constant
1960 market prices, grew at an estimated annual rate of about 7% during
1968-72. Per capita gross national product in 1972 was estimated at about
US$80.
2.03      In pursuing its central objective of increasing aggregate output
and income, GOI has given priority to the development of agriculture and
to rehabilitation of the economic infrastructure. IDA has made an important
contribution to these efforts. Up to the end of April 1974, Indonesia had
received 34 IDA credits amounting to about US$509 million, with financing
of fifteen agricultural projects including one for fisheries (para 1.02),
accounting for about 44% of the total.
B. The Fisheries Sector
Contribution to the Economy
2.04      In line with its objectives of broad based agriculture and rural
development, GOI accords priority to expansion of fisheries production for
local consumption and for export. Indonesia's total fisheries production in
1972 was estimated at about 1.27 million tons, of which landings from ocean
waters accounted for some 66%, catches from inland waters (rivers and lakes)
about 23% and fish and shrimp reared in ponds the remaining 11%. Currently,
about a million fishermen, including fish pond operators, are engaged in
fisheries production. They represent, together with their families, some
4-5% of the population.
2.05      Annual per capita consumption of fish is estimated at about 10 kg,
which is low even by the standards of other less developed countries (com-
parable figures for Philippines and Malaysia are about 30 kg). Fish accounts
for about 65% of the protein in the average Indonesian diet. Fisheries
exports in 1972 totalled about US$26 million, the bulk of which was frozen
shrimp shipped to Japan.
Marine Fisheries (Annex 1)
2.06      As many as 200 varieties of fish are found in Indonesia's waters.
The principal varieties being fished at present are sardine, mackerel, tuna,
coral fish, sea bream, shark and ray and crustacea. Indonesia's untapped
marine fisheries resources are considerable. FAO has estimated the potential
annual fish catch from the five million km2 of the Indonesia archipelago at
about six million tons. 1/ This is seven times the estimated landings in
1/   FAO symposium on marine fisheries, 1968.



- 3 -
1972. Within the archipelago, the more productive areas - the so-called
Upwelling Area -comprising thie Java, Arafura, Flores and Banda seas and
covering approximately 750,000 km2, has a potential annual catch estimated
at some four million tons, of which about two million tons are in the Java
Sea.
2.07      With specific reference to skipjack tuna, FAO has estimated 1/
the potential annual catch of this fish in the tropical Western Pacific at
about 250,000 tons, of which according to a recent GOI estimate, some
150,000 tons are in Indonesian waters. Skipjack tuna is found in great
abundance in the Ceram, Banda and Maluku seas. The present annual catch
of skipjack in Indonesia is only about 5,000 tons.
2.08      The Indonesian fishing fleet comprises about 281,000 sail boats
and 7,000 motorized vessels manned by some 890,000 fishermen, mostly
operating at a subsistence level. These fishermen landed an estimated 839,000
tons of fish in 1972. Most of the fish are caught within a few miles from
the coast. The sail boats make daily fishing trips, relying on changing
tides and wind. They do not have access to the substantial fisheries
resources which lie more than 5-10 miles from the shore. As a result, the
five-mile zone along the north coast of Java is overfished while the Java
Sea beyond the reach of sail boats includes rich fishing grounds. These
grounds are especially suitable for trawling given their relatively flat
bottom and shallow waters.
Inland Fisheries
2.09      Indonesian inland fisheries activities comprise fishing in inland
waters (rivers, lakes and rice fields), and brackish and fresh water pond
culture. Of the total pond area, brackish water ponds account for about
85%, and fresh water ponds the remaining 15%. Brackish water pond culture
is mostly for milkfish (Chanos chanos). Brackish water shrimp cultivation
takes place in milkfish ponds which are generally within 1 km of the coast
where water salinity is sufficient for shrimp requirements. Shrimp fry are
generally not introduced into the ponds by the pond operators but enter the
ponds with the inflow of water from the sea. For most pond operators, the
production of shrimp is in effect a byproduct of milkfish culture (para 2.13).
2.10      There are about 184,000 ha of brackish water ponds in Indonesia,
from which some 60,000 tons of milkfish, shrimp, crabs and other fish are
harvested annually. The bulk of the ponds are located along the north coast
of Java and South Sulawesi, with East Java accounting for 34%, West Java
16%, Central Java 14%, and South Sulawesi 21% of the total pond area. This
is because these provinces have extensive estuarine swamp areas suitable
for pond development, an abundance of milkfish fry, and proximity to large
population concentrations which provide market outlets for milkfish. Most
ponds are within 1 to 3 km of the sea, except in East Java where they may
be up to 20 km. With a few exceptions, ponds vary in size from less than 1
1/   FAO, The Fish Resources of the Ocean, 1971.



-4-
ha up to 7 ha, with the average ranging from about 1 ha in Central and West
Java to 4-5 ha in East Java and South Sulawesi. Most are operator owned.
These ponds do not have a more productive alternative use. Because their
pond holdings are usually small and their methods of pond culture are
traditional and of low productivity (para 2.12), most pond operators are
operating on a subsistence basis.
2.11      Brackish water culture in Indonesia has a long tradition.  It was
initiated at least 600 years ago as a mangrove swamp fishery using traps.
Gradually, the mangrove was removed, dykes were constructed, ponds built,
and finally, the custom prevailed of stocking the ponds with milkfish
fry caught at sea. Ponds were built simply by bunding the perimeter and
le'ielling the bottom. Technical development has not advanced much beyond
this stage.
2.12      The traditional methods of milkfish and shrimp culture practiced
by most Indonesian pond operators are described in Annex 2. Under these
methods, ponds are left under natural conditions with little control over
salinity levels and water depths. Fertilizers, including organic manure,
are rarely used. There is virtually no control of natural predators and
pests (snails and worms) which compete with the milkfish and shrimp for food.
Furthermore, fry stocking management to make effective use of the available
feed is generally absent. As a result, production is low, averaging about
330 kg per ha annually, with milkfish accounting for less than half (40% -
50%) the output. Crabs, shrimp, mullet, tilapia and other fish, usually
brought into the ponds by the inflow of water and not intentionally introduced,
account for the remaining output. Most ponds are able to produce only a
single harvest. The disproportionately small share of milkfish is indicative
of the low level of technology applied.
2.13      Some pond operators have begun to adopt better practices.  Improved
control of salinity and water depth in ponds has been achieved through
simple works, such as the raising of secondary dykes and ditches, deepening
of pond bottoms and canals, and additional sluice gates. With some degree
of water regulation and use of small amounts of fertilizers (about 100 -
150 kg per ha) and in some instances pesticides, these operators have been
getting substantially higher yields as well as two harvests a year. Most
operators adopting these simple improvements are harvesting between 500-600 kg
of milkfish and 100 - 150 kg of shrimp per year or about 4 times more than
the average for all ponds. Near the coast, with higher salinity levels,
progressive pond operators are giving increased emphasis to shrimp production.
Shrimp thrive better in such ponds than in those away from the coast.
Improved ponds near the coast have been getting about 300 kg of milkfish
and between 250-350 kg of shrimp per ha annually compared with about 150 kg
and 20-60 kg respectively for unimproved ponds.
2.14      Improved ponds are still few and concentrated in areas close to
the main urban centres on South Sulawesi and Java. This is because many
pond operators, especially those in remote areas, are simply not aware that
substantial increases in production can be obtained through simple improve-
ments, such as better water control to obtain improved pond water conditions,



- 5 -
and use of fertilizers and pesticides. Lack of technical advice is another
problem. Finally, shortage of credit on suitable terms is an important
constraint.   The proposed project would help accelerate the spread of
improved ponds by providing credit and technical assistance to disseminate
proven improvements.
Marketin8
2.15      Sharp regional imbalances exist between fish production and consump-
tion. For example, the island of Java, which accounts for about two-thirds
of the Indonesian population, consumes some one-third but produces only
about one-fifth of national fish production.  An active inter-island fish
trade thus exists between the other islands and Java. While fish from ponds
is generally sold fresh or alive, most marine fish is sold dried and salted
given the long distances involved and the high cost of ice and refrigerated
transport. The marketing system is inefficient involving several inter-
mediaries in the producing area as well as in the consuming centres. Margins
between producer and retail prices are 50% or more (Annex 11).
Fisheries Credit
2.16      Though most fishermen and fish pond operators depend on traders for
financing, reliable data on the quantities and terms of such financing are
not available. The Bank Rakjat Indonesia (BRI) is the main source of insti-
tutional credit for fisheries. Some of the other state-owned banks also
finance this activity, mainly in the field of marketing and processing. Insti-
tutional credit for fisheries meets only a fraction of the requirements of
fish pond operators, and purchases of equipment and machinery for marketing
and processing (Annex 7). The interest rate on fisheries loans is 1%-2% per
month.
Fisheries Cooperatives
2.17      The National Federation of Indonesian Fishermen's Cooperative
Society is the apex of 12 Provincial Unions of Fishermen's Cooperative
Societies comprising 352 Primary Fishermen's Cooperative Associations with
a membership of about 62,000 fishermen (6% of the fishermen population). The
principal activity of the cooperatives has been the provision of fishing gear,
particularly nets. They buy from the National Federation or, in the case
of locally available items, make bulk purchases for resale to members. No
credit is provided. The cooperatives also auction fish at the landing site
on behalf of the fishermen, and collect an auction fee. In addition, several
cooperatives are engaged in wholesale fish marketing and in catching bait fish.
Fisheries Administration
2.18      The Directorate General of Fisheries (DGF) in the Ministry of
Agriculture is responsible for the administration of the fisheries sector.
It handles all fisheries matters - administration, development policies,
research, training, extension, and control of the State Fisheries Enter-
prises (Annex 9). DGF's provincial and district offices are primarily



respons:ible for providing extension services for inland and marine fisheries.
Both the quality and quantity of extension personnel are inadequate (para
4.05).
Education and Trainiag
2.19      Trained manpower for substantial expansion in fishing operations
is available. There are nine institutions concerned with fisheries training
at various levels: a fisheries academy, three senior fisheries high schools,
three junior fisheries high schools, two adult training centres, and fisheries
departments within the faculties of agriculture in five universities. UNDP/FAO
is funding a fisheries training centre at one of the senior fisheries high
schools (Tegal) to provide practical training in fishing techniques, fishing
gear assembly, net making and mending, and navigation. DGF plans to set up
similar centres elsewhere. Indonesian fishermen are also currently being
trained on many of the foreign fishing vessels operating under joint venture
agreements.
Research
2.20      A centre for brackish water fish and shrimp culture research is
currently being developed at Jepara, Central Java, by DGF with UNDP support.
The objective of the centre is to expand and increase the efficiency of pond
culture of milkfish and shrimp on a national scale, through research on
improved cultural techniques, and field testing and extension of the
improved techniques among pond operators. The long range research and
development work program of the centre would include:
(i) Introduction of improved methods of milkfish culture,
adapting them as necessary to local conditions, and
development of new techniques for increasing the
efficiency of operations.
(ii) Undertake in the vicinity of Jepara, demonstration of
successful techniques of milkfish culture, and training
of field personnel, including extension workers, in the
application of such techniques.
(iii) Development of suitable methods of intensive and semi-
intensive culture of shrimp under local conditions,
including the mass rearing of shrimp larvae.
(iv) Undertake surveys and studies to determine distribution,
and improve collection, handling, and transport of milk-
fish and shrimp fry.
(v) Investigations on the effects and extent of pollution,
and of pesticides and herbicides, on shrimp and milkfish
culture, and to evolve suitable measures for controlling
any adverse effects.



- 7 -
The proposed project would make use of the centre's research results
and training of extension workers (para 4.08).
Development Program and Strategy
2.21      In view of the substantial potential for development (para 2.06 -
2.07), GOI has sought international and bilateral assistance to formulate
and finance fisheries projects, including facilities to improve fish market-
ing. GOI provides various incentives, mainly exemptions and reductions in
taxes and import duties, to encourage private participation in fisheries
development. Where private investment is not forthcoming, GOI through the
DGF, sets up its own State Fisheries Enterprises to carry out projects.
2.22      In response to the incentives offered, there are a number of
foreign, domestic and joint enterprises catching shrimp and tuna for export.
GOI has been promoting the use of trawlers by its State Fisheries Enterprises
and fisheries cooperatives. Private entrepreneurs have also begun to invest
in trawlers to exploit the fishing grounds in the Java Sea beyond the reach
of the small coastal fishing craft .(para 2.08). Although catches off the
coast of Java are reported to be good, the little exploited waters off
South Kalimantan offer potentially larger catches, including a higher
percentage of shrimp. Credit needed to encourage further trawler acquisition
to fish these waters would be provided under the project.
2.23      To make fuller use of its skipjack resource (para 2.07), GOI
plans to operate three skipjack projects in Aer Tembaga (North Sulawesi),
Ambon (Maluku), and Sorong (West Irian). The first is an ongoing IDA
financed project (para 1.02). The proposed project would be the second.
It would be operated by the State Fisheries Enterprise Maluku at Ambon
(PNM), a GOI owned enterprise already engaged in skipjack fishing (para 4.10
- 4.14). The third project would be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
Projected total annual skipjack landings by the three projects are estimated
at about 25,000 tons. This projected output together with the present catch,
would constitute about 20% of the potential landings (para 2.07).
2.24      In GOI's present 5-year Plan (1969/70 - 1973/74), though the
planned budget allocation for fisheries development was Rp 22 billion
(US$67.7 million) 1/, or about 14% of the total budget for agriculture, the
actual allocation made during the first four years was only about Rp 3
billion, and it is expected that no more than Rp 5 billion would be allocated
during the whole of the Plan period. Deficiencies in administration and
technical/managerial expertise, were mainly responsible for the short-fall
between planned and actual allocations. Under the Second 5-year Plan
(1974/75 - 1978/79), DGF has planned to improve and expand all aspects of
fisheries development. The proposed project, by providing the necessary
finance, managerial and technical expertise required for effective project
implementation, would contribute to this development.
1/   At the then exchange rate of Rp 325 - US$1.



- 8 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Definition
3.01      The objective of the proposed project is to assist GOI's strategy
to increase (a) skipjack tuna landi.ags, (b) milkfish and shrimp production
from existing brackish water ponds, and (c) fish and shrimp catch by
trawling. The purpose of these activities is to make fuller use of
Indonesia's fisheries resources for domestic consumption and export. This
in turn will provide increased employment opportunities and incomes for
fishermen, most of whom are living at subsistence levels.
3.02      Over a 5-year investment period, the project would comprise:
(a) Skipjack tuna subproject involving the provision of:
(i)  about 20 pole and line fishing boats for skipjack fishing;
(ii) two carrier vessels to increase fishing efficiency; and
(iii)  on-shore supporting facilities, including an icemaking,
freezer and storage complex to preserve the quality of
the skipjack tuna catch, two small jetties for provisioning
the fishing boats and one for loading and unloading the
carrier vessels, repair facilities (workshop and a slipway)
to service project vessels, and about 54 lift or beach
seine nets to catch live bait required for skipjack tuna
fishing.
(b)  Fish pond subproject for the:
(i)  improvement of about 15,000 ha of existing smallholder
brackish water ponds in Java and Sulawesi through the
introduction of simple improvements to pond construction
and techniques of fish culture;
(ii) development of about 45 one to five-ha ponds to demonstrate
the improvements; and
(iii) establishment of about nine 5-ton ice plants to provide ice
for the preservation of milkfish and shrimp from project
ponds enroute to market.
(c) Trawler subproject involving the purchase of about 25 trawlers
for the trawling of fish and shrimp in the Java Sea.
(d) Technical assistance required for effective implementation
of the project.
Details on these various components are given in the following paragraphs.



- 9 -
B. Detailed Features (Annex 3)
Skipjack Tuna Subproject
3.03      The purpose of this subproject is to expand skipjack tuna fishing
for export. The subproject would be based on Ambon island (see attached
Map IBRD-10570) because the seas surrounding this island have abundant
skipjack resources 1/ and its fishermen are experienced in the catching
of this fish. Furthermore, PNM which is a suitable entity to implement
the major pa:rt of this subproject, is located on Ambon, where it is already
engaged in skipjack fishing for the local market. Details of PNM's opera-
tions are given in para 4.10 - 4.14. The proposed 20 fishing boats and
consequently the capacity of the supporting facilities for this subproject
has been determined by the availability of bait fish. 1/ Under the sub-
project, credit would be provided to PNM to acquire ten of the fishing
boats, the two carrier vessels, on-shore supporting facilities, and about
27 nets for catching bait fish (para 3.12). DGF would employ a management
specialist, electrical/mechanical engineer, civil engineer, and naval
architect/master boat builder (para 3.21), to assist in project implementa-
tion. Besides individual fishermen/entrepreneurs, there are several fisheries
cooperatives in Ambon who operate skipjack fishing boats and are engaged in
the netting of bait fish for catching skipjack. At least 5 of the fisheries
cooperatives engaged in skipjack fishing have been operating successfully
and would like to expand their operations. In view of this, credit would be
offered to fisheries cooperatives and other private entrepreneurs at Ambon
to acquire the remaining 10 subproject boats and bait fish nets.
3.04      Skipjack Fishing Boats and Carrier Vessels.  The 20 skipjack fishing
boats would be of 30 gross tons powered by a 150 hp diesel engine, with a
perpendicular length of about 18 m and a draught of about 2 m. They would be
designed for pole and line fishing using live bait, with insulated fish
holds capable of storing up to 5 tons of skipjack. The boats would carry
a crew of 30, and be equipped to communicate with the base and other vessels.
Investment cost including incremental working capital is estimated at about
Rp 24.0 million (US$57,800) a boat. Such boats have been operating success-
fully in Japan, Caroline Islands, and Indonesia, and are familiar to Indone-
sian fishermen engaged in skipjack fishing. They are of sufficient size to
enable fishing to be carried out during the monsoon period when smaller
boats would not be able to operate.
1/   An FAQ survey conducted during January 1971 to March 1972 found that
skipjack is abundant in the waters around Ambon and that bait resources
would be sufficient to sustain at least an additional 20 fishing boats
of the type envisaged under the subproject.



- 10 -
3.05      lnstead of project fishing boats journeying to Ambon to unload
skipjack catch and to load ice, fuel, and other supplies for the return trip
to the fishing grounds, carrier vessels would be used. This would increase
fishing efficiency by allowing the fishing vessels maximum time in their
fishing operations. Two 100 gross ton carrier vessels would be provided by
the project for this purpose. They would have a perpendicular length of
about 25 m with a draught of 3 m and they would be powered by a 240 hp diesel
engine.  A 10 hp auxiliary would generate power for lighting and pumping when
the main engine is not running. The vessels would have insulated fish holds
of about 85 m3 capable of storing up to 15 tons of skipjack with 15 tons
of block ice in about 20 tons of sea water. They would also be equipped to
communicate with the base at Ambon and other vessels, and carry a crew of 7.
Investment cost of the vessels, including incremental working capital, is
estimated at Rp 67.4 million (US$162,400) each. Skippers and other crew for
the fishing and carrier vessels are available in Ambon.
3.06      Both types of vessel as well as the trawlers (para 3.19-3.20)
would have wooden hulls. Local timber suitable for hull construction is
cheap and readily available. Steel hulls and imported wooden hulls would
cost much more than locally made wooden hulls (para 3.30). The project
naval architect/master boat builder (para 3.21) would provide the final
design and specifications as well as supervise construction and installation
of the engines and equipment of the skipjack fishing and carrier vessels,
and the trawlers. Outline drawings and specifications of the vessels are
given in Annex 3, Charts 8044, 7843 and 7842. Assurances were obtained
that IDA would approve the final designs and specifications of the vessel
types prior to construction.
3.07      Icemaking, Freezer and Cold Store Complex.  The complex would
include: cold storage rooms for 500 tons of frozen skipjack maintained
at -25°C; brine tanks with a capacity of freezing 25 tons of skipjack a day
to -25C; an ice plant capable of producing 50 tons of ice daily with adequate
ice storage facilities; offices, and store-room; and three generator sets of
some 1,250 KVA, including 33% standby capacity, to provide the necessary
power. The complex of which a lay-out plan is shown in Annex 3, Chart 7841,
would be of sufficient capacity to provide the ice, freezer and cold store
needs required to preserve the skipjack tuna caught by project vessels. The
two project engineers (para 3.21) would provide the final designs and
specifications of the complex as well as supervise construction and installa-
tion. The civil engineer would be responsible for the civil works involved,
and the electrical/mechanical engineer all other aspects of the establishment
of the complex. Assurances were obtained that IDA would approve all final
designs and specifications.
3.08      The proposed complex would be constructed on a site adjacent to
PNM's present location. DGF authorities have assured that this site would
be suitable as it has ample level ground, good water depth within a short
distance off the shore (para 3.09), and plentiful supply of water (para 4.14).
3.09      Jetties.  The main subproject jetty would be constructed on the
proposed cold store site, with a depth alongside in excess of 6 m, which



would be enough to accommodate a refrigerator vessel loading frozen skipjack
for export. The jetty head would be about 60 m long and 6 m wide. The outer
face would be used as a berth for all vessels and the inner face could be
used by the carrier vessels when the outer berth was occupied by the
refrigerator vessel, so that normal operations would not be interrupted.
The jetty would be constructed by local contractors using local hardwoods.
3.10      The main skipjack fishing grounds would be in waters off the
fishing villages of Hitu and Waai where food and drinking water iS
available and many bait fishermen are located (para 3.12). Under the subproject,
small jetties would be constructed in the fishing villages to facilitate
access by the skipjack fishing boats. The jetties would be about 3 m wide
and would provide a minimum water depth of 3 m. They would be constructed
in locally available hardwoods by local contractors experienced in building
timber bridges. The project civil engineer with the assistance of the project
electrical/mechanical engineer (para 3.21), would provide the final designs
and specifications as well as supervise the construction of the jetties.
3.11      Repair Facilities.  PNM has a small hand-operated slipway and
workshop capable of servicing its existing boats and those of the fisheries
cooperatives. However, the slipway would not be suitable for project
carrier vessels and another would be needed. The project would therefore
finance the construction of a new slipway and enlargement of the present
workshop facilities. The new slipway would be constructed parallel to the
existing one and an electrical uphauling winch would be provided capable
of operating either slipway by means of a system of snatch blocks. The
project civil engineer, naval architect, and electrical/mechanical
engineer would be responsible for drawing up the final designs and specifi-
cations as well as supervising the construction of the slipway and extension
of the workshop facilities. A site lay-out of the repair facilities is
given in Annex 3, Chart 7839.
3.12      Lift or Beach Seine Nets.  The project would provide about 54 lift
or beach seine nets which would be adequate to catch the required amount of
bait fish. Credit for the purchase of these nets would be made available
to PNM (para 3.03), fishermen, or fisheries cooperatives which are engaged
in bait fishing.
Fish Pond Subproject (Annex 2)
3.13      Pond Improvements.  The purpose of this subproject is to increase
the production of milkfish and shrimp from existing ponds by providing
finance to pond operators for simple pond improvements and for purchase
of fry, fertilizers and pesticides required to produce the first harvest
from the improved ponds. Simple improvements would comprise primarily
the raising of secondary dykes and ditches, deepening and levelling of pond
bottoms and canals, and additional sluice gates, including their relocation.
Details on the various investment items are given in Annex 5.



- 12 -
3.14      Investments would average about Rp 62,000 per ha for ponds
producing milkfish and Rp 125,000 per ha f3r ponds producing both milkfish
and shrimp (para 2.13). 1/ About 15,000 ha of ponds in Java and South
Sulawesi would be improved under the subproject, of which 7,000 ha would
be of the former type and 8,000 ha of the latter. The projected distribu-
tion of the two types of ponds among provinces and districts, the phasing
of their development over a 5-year period, and the average pond size and
number of pond operators involved, are given in Annex 3, Tables 3-1, and
3-2.
3.15      The subproject pond area would be restricted to Java and South
Sulawesi because these two areas have a regional comparative advantage
for brackish water pond culture. Ponds producing both shrimp and milkfish
would be in coastal areas with sufficiently high salinity levels required for
successful shrimp production. Pond development for milkfish alone would be
carried out further inland. Project size has been determined by the avail-
ability of suitable pond areas, pond operator demand for such improvements,
and with full account taken of the limited capacity of the fisheries extension
services and of BRI's limited experience in fish pond lending.
3.16      In Taiwan, intensive production with annual yields of up to 2,500
kg of milkfish per ha have been achieved, through excellent water control,
the adoption of adequate modern inputs (including fertilizers, pesticides
and supplementary feeds), and advanced production and management practices.
To try and raise Indonesian yields within a few years to the high levels
prevailing in Taiwan would be unrealistic, because this requires a capital
intensive technology and a management competence which the Indonesian pond
operators (particularly small operators) cannot be expected to acquire
rapidly. In view of this, the subproject aims at financing pond improvements
at an intermediary level of technology (para 2.13), suitable for dissemina-
tion to small operators as an initial step in the long range development of
more intensive pond culture in Indonesia.
3.17      Demonstration Ponds.  Successful implementation of the subproject
requires strengthening of the fisheries extension service and establishment
of 45 one to five-ha demonstration ponds to demonstrate to pond operators the
improved techniques and their benefits envisaged under the subproject
(para 2.13). To assist in the further develbpment of pond culture in
Indonesia (para 3.16), some of the ponds would also demonstrate more advanced
techniques practiced in Taiwan as adapted for local application by the research
centre for brackish water fish and shrimp culture currently being established
(para 2.20). The proposed numbers and location of the demonstration ponds
among the different provinces in the subproject area as well as the phasing
of their development are given in Annex 3, Table 3-3. Investment cost for
each pond, a typical layout of which is given in Annex 3, Chart 7864, would
be about Rp 2 million. A breakdown of the cost of the individual investment
items is given in Annex 5. The ponds would be developed among those owned
1/ The former type ponds would stock only milkfish, and the latter type
both milkfish and shrimp.



- 13 -
by GOI or individuals. Three pond fisheries experts (para 3.21) would be
needed for a period of two years, to develop the demonstration ponds, and
train the required local fisheries extension officers who would help pond
operators carry out their pond improvements. Details on the strengthening
of the fisheries extension service and its function required under the
subproject are given in para 4.05 - 4.08.
3.18      Ice Plants.  The subproject would provide credit to fisheries
cooperatives and private entrepreneurs for the purchase of nine small ice
plants which would supply ice to preserve the quality of project fish and
shrimp enroute to market (para 4.09). Subproject fish ponds are widely
scattered. Several small ice plants to be located in production areas
where ice is not available, would be preferable to a single large plant,
because of the lack of suitable facilities to transport ice over long
distances. Each of the small ice plants, costing about Rp 18.5 million
(US$45,000), would have a capacity of 5 tons of block ice per day, storage
space for 15 tons of ice, and be equipped with a generator set. Small
plants of this capacity are already operating successfully in Java. The
project electrical/mechanical engineer would provide the final design and
specifications and supervise the installation of the equipment.
Trawler Subproject
3.19      The Java Sea, especially off South Kalimantan, possesses rich
trawling grounds. The estimated 150 trawlers presently operating there
are exploiting only a small proportion of the potential catch (para 2.06 -
2.08). There is consequently a growing demand for trawler financing.
3.20      The project would finance about 25 trawlers.  Available evidence
suggests that they would easily be taken up by potential borrowers. The
trawlers of 30 gross tons would have a perpendicular length of about 19 m,
with a 2 m draught, and powered by a 120 hp diesel engine. They would have
insulated fish holds for about 6 tons of fish and shrimp. The trawlers
would also be equipped with a radio set for communication, and a pair of
side roller winches. This size vessel is presently operating successfully
in the Java Sea. It is able to travel from the north coast of Java to the
fishing grounds off South Kalimantan and to carry out 3-4 day fishing trips.
The project naval architect would design and supervise construction of the
trawlers (para 3.06), each of which would carry a crew of ten. The required
crews would be available locally. The investment cost of each trawler,
including incremental working capital, is estimated at about Rp 22.9 million
(US$55,200).
Technical Assistance
3.21      The project would finance up to seven experts (17 man years)
required for effective project implementation. They would comprise three
specialists for pond development (2 man years each), a management specialist
(4 man years) (para 4.13), an electrical/mechanical engineer (3 man years),
a civil engineer (1 man year) and a naval architect/master boat builder
(3 man years). Terms of reference, qualifications and experience required



- 14 -
are given in Annex 10. All the experts, e(xcept for the civil engineer,
would be internationally recruited. Civil engineering services required
for the on-shore complex (para 3.07) would be obtained from a local
engineering firm and financed by the project which includes the cost of
such services. Competent civil engineering services are readily available
locally.
Project Implementation Schedule
3.22      The project would be implemented over a 5-year period as shown
in Annex 4. Full development period for individual investments would
range from one to five years.
C. Cost Estimates
3.23      The total cost of the project is estimated at Rp 5,351.7 million
(US$12.9 million), of which 30 percent, or Rp 1,595.0 million (US$3.8 million)
would be foreign exchange.



- 15 -
Project Cost Estimate /a
-----Rp Million------  -------US$'000-------  % Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
A. Skipjack Tuna Sub-
project
1. Fishing Vessels  300.0    150.0   450.0   723         361  1,084       33
(20)
2. Carrier Vessels  100.0       24.0   124.0   241        58    299       19
(2)
3. Ice-Making,
Freezer and
Cold Store
Complex           195.9    495.2   691.1   472    1,193  1,665         72
4. Jetties            64.9       1.5    66.4   156          4    160        3
5. Repair Facili-
ties (Workshop
& Slipway)         15.5      26.2    41.7    37        63    100       63
6. Lift or Beach
Seine Nets (54)    6.7       20.3    27.0    16        49      65      75
7. Technical
Assistance (11
man years)         36.5    146.1   182.6    88        352    440        80
8. Incremental
Working Capital  109.2        -     109.2   263       -       263        -
Sub-Total    828.7    863.3 1,692.0 1,997    2,080  4,077          51
B. Fish Pond Subproject
1. Pond Development
(15,000 ha)    1,236.8       -   1,236.8 2,980        -    2,980       -
2. Demonstration
Ponds (225 ha)    92.3        _      92.3   222       -       222      -
3. Ice Plants (9)    47.7    118.8   166.5   115         286    401        71
4. Technical Assis-
tance (6 man
years)             19.9      79.7    99.6    48       192    240        80
5. Incremental Work-
ing Capital       212.1       -     212.1   511        -      511      _
Sub-Total  1,608.8    198.5 1,807.3 3,877         478  4,3S5       11
C. Trawlers Sub-
project
1. Trawlers (25)    375.0    150.0   525.0   904         361  1,265        29
2. Incremental Work-
ing Capital        48.4       -      48.4   117        -      117       -
Sub-Total    423.4    150.0   573.4 1,021         361  1,382       26
D. Contingencies
1. Physical (5%)    143.0       60.6   203.6   345       146    491        30
*2. Price (26%)       752.8    322.6 1,075.4 1,814         777  2,591       30
Sub-Total    895.8    383.2 1,279.0 2,159         923  3,082       30
Total      3,756.7  1,595.0 5,351.7 9,052    3,843 12,895          30
/a   Totals may not add up due to rounding.



- 16 -
3.24      Detailed cost estimates are shown in Annex 5. Estimates are based
on current prices, including the costs of installation. Price 1/ and physical
contingencies of 26% and 5% respectively have been added to project costs.
The contingency allowances would be adequate. The price contingency allowance
is based on the projected price increases on the estimated amounts that would
be disbursed.
D. F_iancing
3.25      The total project cost would be financed from the following sources:
Bank                        Total Pro-
Sub-Borrowers   Rakjat Indonesia  Government    Ject Cost  IDA
Rp    % of        Rp   Z of      Rp    % of       Rp        Rp
Invest--        Invest-          Invest-
Investment             ment             ment            ment
Items         Million Items   Million Items   Million Items   Million Million
A. Skipjack
Tuna Sub-
project
Fishing
vessels     101.3   15       286.9   85       286.9   85       675.1   330.6
Carrier
vessels      26.7   15         -      -       151.4   85       178.1    87.2
On-Shore
Facilities
(ice-making,
freezer and
cold store
complex; jetties;
and repair
facilities) 171.2   15         -     -        970.1   85    1,141.3   558.9
Lift or
Beach Seine
Nets          1.9    5        17.7   95        17.6   95        37.2    20.3
B. Fish Pond
Subproject
Pond Dev-
elopment     271.8   15    1,540.0   85          -     -      1,811.8   887.2
Demonstra-
tion Ponds      -      -        -       -      126.5  100       126.5      -
Ice Plants    36.4   15       206.5   85         -     -        242.9   119.0
C. Trawler Sub-
project      115.3   15       653.1   85         -      -       768.4   376.3
D. Technical
Assistance
Fish Pond
Experts        -      -        -      -       130.7  100       130.7   104.6
Other
Experts      47.9   20         -       -      191.8   80       239.7   191.8
Total        772.5   14    2704.2  3T    1 875.0   35    5,351.7   675.9
_=N     -                        A_                 __      _
1/   The price contingency is based on:  (a) projected prices for equipment and
civil works provided by IBRD's Projects Advisory Staff (Memo on Revised
Interim Guidelines on Treatment of Project Cost Increases dated March 29,
1974), and (b) annual increases of 8% for all other investment costs.



- 17 -
3.26      GOI would re-lend part of the proceeds of the IDA credit to BRI for
on-lending to sub-borrowers for pond improvements and to acquire all the ice
plants and trawlers, and about 10 skipjack fishing boats and 27 lift or beach
seine nets. BRI's sub-borrowers would be individual pond operators and fisher-
mei, fisheries cooperatives and private entrepreneurs.  The remainder of the
credit would be used by GOI to finance the costs of the experts and for
on-lending to PNM for the construction of the on-shore complex and purchase
of two carrier vessels and about 10 skipjack fishing boats and 27 lift or
beach seine nets (para 3.03).
3.27      Sub-borrowers would on average contribute about 14% of investment
requirements, including incremental working capital. Individual minimum
contributions for the different project items would be 5% for lift or beach
seine nets and 15% for other investments. In the case of project experts
for PNM, 20% of their costs would be financed from PNM's own resources.
Most of the participants in pond improvements would be small farmers owning
from 1 to 5 ha ponds and the bulk of their investment contributions would
be in the form of family labor. In addition to financing the cost of the
services of the project experts and the investment costs of the demonstra-
tion ponds, GOI would provide the necessary funds to PNM and the fisheries
cooperatives in redeemable equity to help meet their investment contributions
(para 4.22). It is essential to ensure that the incremental working capital
necessary to produce the initial output and sales from project investments
be available. The financing arrangements therefore, stipulate that the
incremental working capital would be provided by GOI and BRI if not available
from other sources. Assurances on this were obtained during negotiations.
3.28      The proposed IDA credit of Rp 2,675.9 million (US$6.5 million)
would finance 50% of total project cost, and would supply about 58%
(Rp 1,558.0 million) of BRI support of the project, 53% (Rp 1,013.3 million)
of PNM's investment requirements, and 14% (Rp 104.6 million) of GOI contri-
bution to project cost. The investment costs of the demonstration ponds
would be financed by GOI. IDA would finance foreign exchange costs amounting
to Rp 1,595.0 million or about 60% of its total contribution while the balance
of Rp 1,080.9 million would be local currency financing.
3.29      The IDA credit would be on standard terms to GOI which would retain
an amount to finance an estimated 80% of the costs of the project experts.
GOI would make available the remainder of the credit to BRI and PNM (para
3.26) under subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to IDA. The credit to
BRI would be at an interest rate of 4% per annum and repayable as BRI
received repayments from sub-borrowers. This credit together with BRI's
own contribution would be extended to sub-borrowers at an interest rate of
12% per annum in compliance with the present GOI policy on this type of
lending. GOI lending to PNM would also be at 12% per annum (para 4.19).
GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk. The project experts would be
employed by GOI through DGF. Costs of the experts for the skipjack tuna
subproject would be borne by PNM. The cost of the PNM experts financed from
the IDA credit, would be repaid by PNM at the same interest rate and repay-
ment period as its loans from GOT under the project. GOI would bear the
cost of the pond fisheries experts which it would provide to DGF. To ensure



- 18 -
that sufficient funds are available as needed for timely and efficient
project execution, GOI wouid make available to DGF sufficient funds to cover
estimated expenditures for extension services, experts, training, demons-
tration pond development and other expenditures required to be made by DGF
under the project. Funds to meet the estimated expenditures of each quarter
would be made available to DGF not later than the fifteenth day of such
quarter. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the budget of DGF for
project expenditures up to March 31, 1975 shall have been approved and funds
equivalent to US$200,000 will be available for project expenditures.
Assurances on these arrangements were obtained during negotiations.
E. Procurement
3.30      Procurement for the wooden hulled vessels (20 fishing boats, 25
trawlers and two supporting vessels for the fishing boats) would be separated
into (i) wooden hull procurement and (ii) procurement of equipment such as
engines, fishing gear and other equipment since:
(a) individual operators may already own several fishing
boats and therefore aim at standardization of their
equipment to reduce the need for costly inventories
of spare parts and additional training of personnel;
and
(b) individual operators are in the best position to deter-
mine the make of the equipment most suited to their
needs based on their existing equipment and personnel.
These considerations, common to credit type projects, preclude bidding
for fully equipped vessels. The project naval architect would therefore
establish design criteria for wooden hulls for the three types of project
vessels. Because wood suitable for hull construction is cheap and readily
available in Indonesia and the local shipyards have low labor and freight
costs, these shipyards have considerable advantages over any foreign sup-
pliers and offer the lowest cost source for such hulls. The local shipyards
have the necessary expertise and experience as well as the capacity to carry
out such construction. Bulking of the hulls to attract foreign suppliers
would not be practical since some variation in hull design and construction
would be required to accommodate the individual sub-borrower's choice of
vessel engine and equipment, and also because the hulls would be acquired
over a three year period. The vessel hulls therefore would be procured
from prequalified local shipyards following local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.31      The naval architect would also establish technical performance
criteria and standards for the various equipment items. PNM and other sub-
borrowers would order equipment, with the make of their choice, from suppliers
previously pre-qualified through international advertisement (para 3.32).
BRI would do this for its sub-borrowers. To the extent practical, bulking



- 19 -
of sub-loan applications for equipment would be arranged by BRI. By following
these procedures, requirements of individual operators will be accommodated
without foregoing the economies of bulk orders made possible by the project.
3.32      Engines and other equipment for the vessels are not manufactured
in Indonesia, but suppliers from several countries, mainly Japan, U.S.A.,
and the U.K., are already established there. Through international adver--
tisement, other suppliers would be encouraged to establish themselves and
provide adequate service facilities and spare parts inventories, and the
market would be opened to suppliers meeting project standards and specifi-
cations. The advertisement, to be issued at least three months before price
quotations for the equipment were invited, would indicate the approximate
type of equipment and total quantity required and potential suppliers would
quote prices on various quantities of each type of equipment. PNM and BRI,
assisted by the naval architect, would then order the make of equipment
and quantity needed depending on sub-loan applications and individual
operator's choice and have it installed on the hulls.
3.33      Procurement and installation of the Ambon on-shore facilities -
the ice-making, freezer and cold storage complex, jetties and repair
facilities, would be under a single contract and in accordance with inter-
national competitive bidding procedures (para 3.37).
3.34      Formal bidding procedures for the fish pond improvements and lift
or beach seine nets would not be appropriate because only small investment
items would be required, and improvements would be on scattered small fish
ponds spread over wide areas and over 5 years. Moreover, a significant
part of the improvements would be carried out by manual labor, which in most
cases, would partly be provided by the owners themselves. Pond improvements
would consequently be arranged by the pond operators and extension service
staff. Similarly, the nets would be procured through prudent shopping by
the sub-borrowers.
3.35      The nine small ice plants would be procured through international
competitive bidding.
3.36      Appointment of the project experts would be subject to IDA approval
and would be made on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
3.37      Procurement and installation of the on-shore facilities would
be under a single contract as it would be essential that one contractor
take overall responsibility to synchronize installation of equipment and
civil works. The project engineers would prepare design, layout and
detailed engineering and tender documents. They would also visit construc-
tion sites to ensure that construction conformed to contract standards.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the procurement procedures
outlined above would be followed and the contract awards for vessels, except
those procured through BRI, on-shore facilities and small ice plants would
be subject to IDA approval.



- 20 -
F. Disbursement
3.38      IDA disbursements are expected tD extend over 5 years (Annex 6).
Against appropriate statements, disbursements would be: (a) For the project
experts, 100% of foreign exchange expenditures or 100% of local expenditures
against salaries. The proposed disbursement procedure would allow IDA to
disburse a similar share of the cost of both foreign and local experts. Such
disbursements are expected to amount to about 80% of the total cost of the
experts. (b) 58% of loan disbursements by BRI. (c) 50% of total investment
expenditures by PNM. Disbursements would be made against the required
supporting documents except for reimbursements for sub-loans made by BRI.
The documentation for BRI sub-loans for reimbursement would be retained by
BRI and be available for inspection by IDA project supervision missions. Any
savings would be used to finance further fish pond development.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Introduction
4.01      The Directorate General of Fisheries (DGF) would coordinate, guide
and supervise project implementation, and would employ full-time a competent
and experienced senior officer assisted by adequate and competent supporting
staff for this purpose. An assurance on this was obtained at negotiations.
DGF would also provide fish pond experts, demonstration ponds and extension
services; employ the experts required by PNM; provide technical staff, if
neceasary, to fisheries cooperatives for the operation of ice plants; and
assist BRI in-the technical appraisal of project loans (para 4.04 - 4.09).
4.02      The P.N. State Fisheries Enterprise, Maluku (PNM) would own and
operate ten fishing boats and about 27 lift or beach seine nets, two carrier
vessels and the on-shore supporting facilities under the skipjack tuna
subproject (para 3.03). For project implementation, it would employ an
accountant, and through DGF, experts to be internationally recruited, who
would prepare and evaluate bids, supervise construction of boats and on-shore
facilities, and train local staff (para 4.12-4.13).
4.03      Bank Rakjat Indonesia (BRI), one of the five state-owned banks,
and the lending bank for three on-going IDA projects, 1, would be the
channel for financing the pond improvements, ice plants, trawlers, and about
ten fishing boats and 27 lift or beach seine nets, and responsible for
appraising loans made under them, with assistance from DGF and PNM. BRI
has appointed a fisheries expert to its technical staff to liaise with the
DGF and PNM experts.
1/   Beef Cattle Development Project, Report No. PA-153a (November 1972).
2/   North Siuatra Smallholder Development Project, Report No. PA-140a
(January 1973).
3/   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea Project, Report No. 124a-IND
(May 1973).



- 21 -
B. Institutions
Directorate General of Fisheries
4.)4      Details of DGF's organization and operations are given in
Annex 9. For the skipjack tuna subproject, it would assist PNM in (a)
finding suitable export markets (para 5.03) through the collection of
market intelligence and facilitating negotiations with foreign buyers, and
(b) employing the experts required by PNM. The experts would be seconded to
PNM which would bear the cost of their services (para 3.29). The subproject
requires advance planning to synchronise timing of the various activities,
particularly to ensure the on-shore facilities were ready when the vessels
were delivered. The advance planniag would require the active participation
of the experts. Consequently they should be internationally recruited as
soon as possible. The management specialist would be appointed and in position
before credit effectiveness and the other two experts within six months following
credit effectiveness, and their qualifications and experience, and terms and
conditions of employment would be approved by IDA (para 4.13). Assurances on
these conditions were obtained at negotiations.
4.05      For the fish pond subproject, the present 17 inland fisheries
extension officers in the subproject areas (para 3.14) would be inadequate.
The ratio is currently one officer for 680 ha of ponds, whereas the sub-
project would require one for about 300 ha. 50 officers would thus be
needed for the 15,000 ha of ponds, together with 45 for the demonstration
ponds (one at each pond). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
DGF would make available the required 95 officers for this subproject,
in accordance to the schedule given in Annex 3, Table 3-4, and that the
officers would hold the equivalent of a diploma from a senior inland
fisheries high school.
4.06      Every loan application for pond improvement would be appraised by
an extension officer, who would prepare a plan indicating the required
improvements, their phasing and cost, and expected financial return. The
loans, after approval by BRI, would be disbursed in appropriate instalments
after the officer had certified that the previous instalments had been
used according to the plan. An assurance to this effect was obtained at
negotiations.
4.07      Three pond fisheries experts would be required to develop the
demonstration ponds and to train the 95 local extension officers. Their
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment would be
subject to IDA approval. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
at least one expert would be appointed and in position before credit effective-
ness and the other two experts within six months following credit effectiveness.
4.08      In cooperation with the centre for brackish water culture research
and development (para 2.20), DGF, through the pond fisheries experts, would
prepare and implement a suitable program, satisfactory to IDA, for the
training of the project extension officers at the centre. The program would
include training of the extension officers in the regions and under conditions



- 22 -
in which they would be working, primarily through on-site experience
with the demonstration ponds. The allocation of the extension officers
among the subproject areas is given in Annex 3, Table 3-4. In addition
to demonstrating pond improvements at an intermediary level of technology,
some of the demonstration ponds would demonstrate more advanced pond culture
practices for intensification of milkfish and shrimp production based on
the findings of the centre (para 3.17). DGF would also agree that the
demonstration ponds and the required extension officers would be maintained,
and that both the demonstration ponds and the availability of trained
extension officers would precede the scheduled project pond improvements.
Assurances were obtained that DGF would comply with these conditions.
4.09      On the advice of the pond fisheries experts, DGF would determine
the siting of the small ice plants (para 3.18). Before loans for them to
the fisheries cooperatives were approved, DGF would ensure that each
cooperative was viable and capable of operating such a plant. Assurances
on these points were obtained at negotiations.
PN State Fisheries Enterprise, Maluku (PNM)
4.10      Details of PNM's organization and operations are in Annex 8.
Established in 1961, it is one of six enterprises set up by DGF to
operate fisheries projects. Up to 1967, PNM operated a passenger service,
and a slipway and facilities to service private vessels. In 1967 it started
skipjack fishing with five vessels, and has since operated at a profit.
4.11      PNM is managed by a 3-member board, one of whom is the Chief
Executive Director, who directs operations. Major decisions and policy
matters rest with DGF, including the appointment of board menbers, and
responsibility for PNM's financial condition. However, this has not
hampered PNM's progress, which is largely due to competent and enterpris-
ing management and autonomy in operations. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that IDA would be consulted concerning any changes in the
appointment of the Chief Executive Director.
4.12      At the end of 1972, PNM's resources were about Rp 43 million, of
which borrowings were only about Rp 7.7 million, mainly from the Indonesia
Industrial Development Bank (Bapindo). The rest was capital, accumulated
profits and reserves. Most of these resources have been used for fixed
assets, mainly land, buildings, fishing vessels, repair facilities and
vehicles, but Rp 4.3 million was cash and bank deposits. However, PNM's
accounts have not been adequately maintained. Costs and returns of each
different activity are not available, so their individual performance
cannot be evaluated. The accounting and reporting systems would be improved
to provide adequate information to aid management's decision making, and a
separate account would be opened for project transactions (para 4.25). To
ensure satisfactory financial control and accounting, a qualified accountant
should be appointed as soon as possible. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that disbursements to PNM would be subject to the prior
appointment of a qualified accountant by PNM.



- 23 -
4.13      Although its staff is adequate for current operations, PNM does
not have the necessary expertise to implement effectively its part of the
project. Three experts would be internationally recruited, and comprise a
management specialist, electrical/mechanical engineer, and naval architect.
Civil engineering services required for the on-shore complex would be
obtained from a local civil engineering firm (para 3.21). The management
specialist would advise and assist PNM's management in the planning, or-
ganization and operation of the subproject, including training of local
personnel and the supervision and coordination of the other experts, who
would be responsible for planning, designing, preparing tender documents
and evaluating bids, and supervising the construction and installation of
equipment in the vessels and on-shore facilities. They would also train
local personnel in the operation of the facilities (para 4.04). An assurance
was obtained at negotiations that PNM would provide the necessary local
counterparts to be trained by the experts, Terms of reference, qualifica-
tions and working experiences of the expexts are given in Annex 10.
4.14      PNM would acquire by purchase or long lease a suitable site
required for the cold storage complex and main jetty (para 3.08). An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that acquisition of the site by PNM
would be a condition of disbursements to PNM or for any sub-loan for the
skipjack tuna subproject.
Bank Rakjat Indonesia (BRI)
4.15      BRI is described in detail in Annex 7.  Non-agricultural loans
account for about one half of its lending, but BRI is assuming an increasing
role in the financing of agriculture, including fisheries. It provides ex-
tensive coverage of the country through a wide network of branch offices,
and village and mobile units. It would be the most suitable lending
institution for this project.
4.16      BRI's operations are directed by a 4-member Board of Directors
appointed by GOI. It has .6 administrative and 7 operational bureaus. Under
one of the bureaus is a Department of Fisheries. While this department is
competent to make financial appraisals, it lacks the necessary technical
expertise to appraise project loans competently, and would rely on the
expertise of DGF and PNM's experts for their technical appraisal. An
assurance on this was obtained at negotiations. The qualifications of the
fisheries officer which BRI would recruit to liaise with DGF and PNM would
be equivalent to a graduate of the Academy of Fisheries, Jakarta, with a
minimum of two years experience in fisheries management and administration.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that such a fisheries officer had
recently been appointed and is in position.
4.17      At the end of 1972, BRI's resources were about Rp 113 billion, of
which about 10% was capital and reserves, 54% deposits, and 31% borrowings
(mainly from Bank Indonesia, the central bank). Loans accounted for about
65% of BRI's use of its resources and about 45% of these for expansion and
development of agriculture. Total arrears were about 30% of loans out-
standing. This relatively high level is in part due to a GOI-sponsored



- 24 -
rapid expansion of credit for rice production prior to 1970, without
adequate attention to the recipients' repayment ability. It is also related
to a fairly widespread drought early in 1972. Doubtful debts were about
Rp 8 billion at that date, and are covered by BRI's reserves. BRI's loan
recovery performance is much better following 1970 than in earlier years.
4.18      BRI has recently received assistance from the Asian Development
Bank to modernize and improve its ozerations, particularly its accounting
and reporting systems. In November, 1973, a FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
mission assisted BRI to prepare a rural credit project for subsequent IDA
financing. The project is expected to include provisions to strengthen
BRI's capacity to extend credit to farmers, including a staff training
program. Immediate short-term technical assistance to BRI to help in
implementing the on-going IDA smallholder tea, rubber and beef cattle
projects is included in these projects (see footnote to para 4.03). The
tea project also provides funds for internationally recruited consultants
to recommend improvements in BRI's medium- and long-term credit operations
and to help implement these recommendations.
C. Lending Terms and Conditions
4.19      Project lending terms and conditions are set out in Schedule A.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that they would apply to all project.
sub-loans. GOI would make available the IDA credit to BRI at an annual
interest rate of 4%. This credit, together with BRI's own contribution,
would he passed on to sub-borrowers at 12%. The IDA credit and GOI lending
to PNM would be at an interest rate of 12% per annum. These follow current
rates on investment funds provided by GOI. These are standard rates which
are also applicable to recent IDA financed agricultural projects. Subsidiary,
loan agreements acceptable to IDA, would be entered into between GOI and
BRI, and between GOI and PNM (incorporating these and other terms and
conditions specified in para 3.29), and the execution of these agreements
would be a condition of credit effectiveness. BRI's average gross margin
on project subloans would be about 7% 1/, which would be adequate for adminis-
trative expenses and overheads, leaving a sufficient margin for bad debts.
1/   During 1972, the average cost of funds to BRI was about 6.2% per annum
whereas the average interest earned by it on its loans, investments
and bank balances was 10.2% per annum. BRI, therefore, earned an
average margin of 4%. Under the project, the margin earned by BRI
would be about 7%, considering that the margin earned on IDA funds
would be 8% per annum (12% less 4%) and that on its own resources
5.8% per annum (12% less 6.2%) and that the ratio between IDA funds
and its own resources would be 49:51. BRI has been working at a
profit on an overall margin of 4%.



- 25 -
4.20      The period of each sub-loan would be determined by the repayment
capacity of the sub-borrower. Financial models for typical sub-loans are
in Annex 12, and indicate that loan repayment schedules need not exceed the
limits shown below:
Grace       Period of        Total
Sub-Loan                      Period       Repayment    Loan Period
----------------Years---------------
1.   Loans for Skipjack Component
to the State Fisheries
Enterprise (PNM)                       3             9             12
2.   Ski-:jack Fishing Vessels to
Cooperatives                           2            10             12
3.   Lift or Beach Seine Nets               -            10              10
4.   Fish Ponds:
(a)  Java Fish Pond                    2           10              12
(b)  Java Shrimp Pond                  2            7               9
(c)  Sulawesi Fish Pond                3            6               9
(d)  Sulawesi Shrimp Pond              3            6               9
5.   Trawlers                               1            10              11
6.   Ice-Plants                             1            10              11
4.21      PNM and sub-borrowers' minimum contributions would be:  25% for
private entrepreneurs operating trawlers and small ice plants, 5% for bait
fishermen, 20% for consultants to PNM (para 3.27), and 15% for all others.
BRI normally makes advances up to 70% of the collateral offered, but has
discretion to advance more. Under the project it would not always obtain
security up to its normal requirements, but would generally lend up to 85%
of the project investment, which would be the collateral offered, and 95%
for lift or beach seine nets. For fish ponds the collateral would be the
ponds themselves, which would be more than adequate for the loans.
4.22      PNM and the cooperatives do not have sufficient unencumbered
assets to provide even the 15% proposed as down payment. PNM would require
about Rs 214 million as its contribution to project costs. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that GOI would provide PNM and the cooperatives with
the required funds, which would be in redeemable equity.
4.23      To facilitate loan recovery, PNM would, on behalf of BRI, deduct
appropriate amounts of its daily purchases of skipjack and bait fish from
project cooperatives and bait fishermen, and BRI would in turn credit
sub-borrowers accounts. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
an agreement to this effect would be entered into by the parties concerned.



- 26 -
D.  Accounts ard Audit
4.24      BRI's accounts are audited by Bank Indonesia, and the audit is
satisfactory. BRI would maintain a separate project account which would
be audited annually and sent to IDA, together with a copy of the audited
balance sheets and accounts covering the whole of its transactions within
four months after the close of each financial year. BRI would also forward
to IDA quarterly reports covering the project's progress. Assurances on
tlhese two points were obtained at negotiations.
4.25      PNM would maintain a separate project account.  This, together
with its full accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA, and copies sent to IDA within four months after the close
of each financial year. An assurance on this was obtained at negotiations.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND OPERATING RESULTS
Production
5.01      The proposed skipjack fishing vessels and trawlers would produce
annually about 12,000 tons of fish and shrimp, including 6,500 tons of
skipjack tuna. The fish pond component would increase annual production at
full development by about 3,600 tons of milkfish and 2,500 tons of shrimp.
Details on these estimates are given in Annex 3. This component, which
would involve the improvement of some 15,000 ha of ponds belonging to about
9,000 small operators, would enable the latter to obtain much higher yields,
thereby making more productive use of their ponds.
Markets (Annex 11)
5.02      Most of the skipjack tuna caught by project vessels would be
exported. Of smaller size and darker meat than the yellowfin tuna, skipjack
has recently been subject to increasing international demand as yellowfin
resources are over-exploited. Because skipjack has a much shorter lifespan
than vellowfin, it contains smaller concentrations of mercury. Wider
acceptance of skipjack's darker meat and its increasing use for mixing with
the lighter meat of the yellowfin and other tuna has added to the demand.
The price of skipjack has accordingly been on an upward trend (para 5.04).
Because the present favorable export market can be expected to continue into
the future, and a suitable export outlet can easily be arranged (para 5.03),
no difficulty in exporting the entire project catch is envisaged.
5.03      There are several representatives of foreign companies involved in
fisheries in Indonesia which have indicated a keen interest in buying tuna.
A purchasing contract could easily be obtained. Negotiated prices would be
geared to world market prices. Alternatively, PNM itself could arrange to
have the catch from all project vessels shipped (through chartered freezer
vessels) to consuming countries and sold there through appointed selling or
commission agents.



- 27 -
5.04      The price used in calculating project returns to PNM is based on
the present c.i.f. price in the U.S. (West Coast) less shipping, handling
and other related costs. This net price works out to an estimated US$400 a
ton. At this price, PNM would in turn be able to pay project cooperatives
US$220 a ton (Rp 90 per kg), and the difference would be sufficient to
cover all its operating costs as well as provide for depreciation and a
reasonable rate of return to project investments. The price of Rp 90 per kg
would likewise give the cooperatives an adequate rate of return (para 5.09).
Because world prices are expected to rise, prices to project cooperatives
would reflect a fair share of the increases in export prices received by PNM
which would buy all skipjack offered by the cooperatives. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.
5.05      The export demand and price prospects for shrimp are also favorable.
There are several shrimp processing companies in Indonesia, both domestic
and foreign owned, which are buying all the shrimp they can get locally for
processing and export. Export demand has been outstripping available
supply. These companies have an extensive network of buying agents in
virtually every primary market to which the fishermen sell their catch.
Project output of shrimp can therefore be easily marketed. Prices offered
by buyers are competitive and rising. However, current prices have been
used for calculating project returns (para 5.08).
5.06      Based on present trends in population and income growth, Indonesian
consumption demand for fish has been projected to increase by about 4%
annually during the Second 5-Year Development Plan, 1974-78. The projected
increases, averaging some 70,000 tons a year, would be substantially larger
th;an the average annual output increase of about 27,000 tons during the recent
four year period 1968-72. The annual increment from project trawlers and
fish ponds, estimated at about 11,000 tons at full development, would there-
fore be easily absorbed by the domestic market.
5.07      Java with about two-thirds of the total population accounts for only
about 20% of the total fish output in Indonesia. With a lower annual per
capita consumption estimated at some 5 kg or about haif the national average,
the island imports very substantial quantities (some 100,000 tons) from other
parts of the country to meet its consumption needs. However, most of the fish
comes to Java in dry and salted form because of poor transport and lack of
facilities for fresh fish preservation. The result is a scarcity of fresh
fish in the large urban consuming centers, particularly those some distance
away from the coast. The output from project trawlers and fish ponds can in
fact be easily accommodated by the Javanese market alone. The large market
potential for fish in Java is also indicated by the fact that in order to
bring fish consumption in the island up to the national average, an estimated
500,000 tons per annum would be required in addition to present supplies.
5.08      Current prices have been used in estimating project returns.
These prices and some details on marketing are given in Annex 11.
Operating Results
5.09      A summary of the financial benefits, derived from representative
investment models, is given in the following table, while the details are
presented in Annex 12.



- 28 -
Trawler
Skipjack Tuna Subproject              Subproject
I                  II      III          IV
On-shore Faci-
lities, Carrier
and Fishing Ves-
sels Operated by   Cooperative
the State Fish- la   Fishing   Beach
Investment Model          eries Enterprise!-   Vessel    Seine       Trawler
Investment Cost
(Rp '000)                 1,425,100             23,988      500      22,939
Net Income
(p._ '000)
At present
At Full Develop-
ment                     584,785              6,681      150       6,030
Increament                584,785              6,681      150       6,030
Debt Service              252,002              3,812       84       3,640
Increment After
Debt Service             332,783              2,869       66       2,390
Financial Rate of
Return (%)                         34                 20      36           20
Fish Pond Subproject
V          VI            VII           VIII      IX
1 ha Fish 1 ha Shrimp  5 ha Fish    5 ha Shrimp  Ice-
/b          /b          Ic             Ic
Investment Model           Pond-        Ponda      Pond-          Pond-    Plant
Investment Cost
(Rp '000)                  62.7         125.5      298.8         597.6    19,333
Net Income
(Rp '000)
At Present                7.4          14.5        50.0         50.0       -
At Full Development      22.9          67.1      142.5         240.0      6,300
Increment                15.5          52.6       92.5         190.0      6,300
Debt Service             10.6          26.1       73.7         138.3      3,256
Increment After
Debt Service             4.9          26.5       18.8          51.7     3,044
Increment (including
returns to family
labor) After Debt
Service                 41.1         140.1      228.8         316.0
Financial Rate of
Return (%)                 22            38         22            26           30
la   Including the services of the experts.
lb   Java.
/c   South Sulawesi.



- 29 -
5.10      Incremental incomes and financial returns would be sufficiently
high to make the proposed invest;ments attractive. In the case of the
project ponds where most of the labor requirements are usually accounted
for by family labor, incremental incomes, including returns to family labor
would be significantly higher as shown in the above table. The financial
rates of return would range from 20% to 38%. In calculating these returns,
;urrent prices for both inputs (including value of family labor imputed at
current wage rates, see para 6.02) and outputs were assumed to continue at
their present levels. The time to reach full development would vary from
the year of investment up to 5 years for PNM's operations. In general,
fisheries is a risky activity because control over catch is uncertain and
fish pond yields are affected by pests and diseases. Therefore the sensi-
tivity of the returns for fishing vessels (trawlers and skipjack boats) and
fish ponds have been tested assuming a 15% decline in operating income.
This resulted in rates of return ranging from 157% to 32% which are
satisfactory.
5.11      The value of total incremental production would be about US$8.1
million per annum at full development. Based on present tax rates,
incremental income tax returns would amount to about US$0.6 million
annually. The level of investments and expansion in output can ba expected
to generate substantial increases in employment, both family and paid labor
(para 6.03).
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Under the project and at current prices, estimated annual landings
of the skipjack vessels would be about 6,500 tons of skipjack tuna valued at
US$2.6 million, and trawlers 5,300 tons of fish (including some 5 percent
shrimp) valued at US$1.3 million. Estimated annual incremental output of
milkfish and shrimp at full development from project ponds would be about
6,200 tons with a value of about US$4.0 million. Proposed small ice-plants
would provide ice valued at about US$0.2 million annually. It is envisaged
that practically all of the project skipjack tuna and about 1,600 tons of
shrimp would be exported annually. The value of these exports would amount
to about US$5.7 million.
6.02      After making the necessary adjustments and based on current
prices, the economic rate of return would range from 22% for skipjack
fishing vessels and trawlers to 42% for beach seine nets (Annex 13).
A sensitivity analysis shows that increasing the cost of project investments
by 30% without increasing the value of the benefits, the rate would be
from 15% to 29%. The figures would be 16% to 31% if the value of the net
benefits were to decline by 20%. These rates of return are satisfactory.
6.03      At full development, the new permanent jobs generated by the
project would be about 860 for the skipjack fishing boats, trawlers and
carrier vessels, 80 for the cold store complex and other on-shore facilities,
and 70 for the small ice plants. The lift or beach seine nets would provide



- 30 -
part-tinie employment for about 1,100 fishermen. The fish pond component
would generate some 10,000 man year equivalent (3 million man days annually)
of work at full development mostly for family labor presently underemployed.
Further, during the development period spread over 5 years, construction
activities for the total project would provide employment opportunities
estimated at some 10,000 man years. kdditional employment resulting from
expanded marketing activities would also add to project benefits.
6.04      A significant share of the project's incremental production,
particularly the milkfish from the ponds and fish catch from the trawlers,
would be consumed in the domestic market and this in turn would improve the
local diet (para 2.05). The provision of ice would likewise improve the
quality of shrimp and fish enroute to market. Small fishermen and fish
pond operators who belong to the lowest income group, would also benefit
to a large extent, as they are likely to comprise the majority of project
beneficiaries. Finally, through its provision of technical expertise,
the project would provide experience valuable to future fisheries
operations, including the fisheries credit activities of BRI.
6.05      To evaluate the financial and economic benefits which will actually
result from the project, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that DGF in
consultation with IDA would establish and maintain an adequate program to
monitor and evaluate the financial and economic benefits resulting from the
project.
Ecology
6.06      Many fish ponds are downstream from intensive rice production
areas which use pesticides (including herbicides) for crop protection.
Though the pesticide runoff, if any, does not seem to have had any visible
adverse effect on the production of the ponds which would include those
participating under the project, it would be prudent and therefore necessary
for DGF, through its centre for milkfish and shrimp research (para 2.20),
to monitor the flow of pesticides into project ponds and to institute
suitable measures for conttolling any adverse effects where they may occur.
An assurance on this was obtained at negotiations. Project pond use of
pesticides would not likely alter significantly the ecology of the surrounding
areas as the amounts to be applied would be small.
VII.  RECOMMENDATTONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  GOI would provide sufficient funds to cover estimated
expenditures required to be made by DGF under the project.
Funds to meet the estimated expenditures of each quarter
would be made available to DGF not later than the fifteenth
day of such quarter (para 3.29);



- 31 -
(b) the agreed procurement procedures would be adhered
to (para 3.37);
(c) the agreed lending terms and conditions detailed in
Schedule A would be followed (para 4.19); and
(d) GOI would provide the necessary funds to PNM and
cooperatives to enable them to contribute to project
costs (para 4.22).
7.02      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a)  a qualified accountant for PNM would be appointed before
disbursements to PNM can be made (para 4.12); and
(b) PNM would acquire a suitable site for the on-shore
complex before disbursements to PNM or for any sub-loans
for the skipjack tuna subproject can be made (para 4.14).
7.03      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) the budget of DGF for project expenditures up to March 31,
1975 shall have been approved and funds equivalent to
US$200,000 will be available for project expenditures
(para 3.29);
(b) at least one pond fisheries expert and the management
specialist be appointed and in position (paras 4.04 and
4.07); and
(c) subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to IDA have been
entered into between GOI and BRI, and GOI and PNM
(para 4.19).
7.04      Subject to these conditions, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$6.5 million.
May 7, 1974






SCHEDULE A
Page 1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Project Lending Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions would be used in im-
plementing the project and would not be altered without the prior agreement
of IDA.
1.        GO0  would bear the foreign exchange risk.
2.        GOI to PNM4:
(a) Interest rate at 12% per annum;
(b)  PNM contribution to project costs:  a minimum 20%
for consultant services and 15% for all other
investments;
(c) Repayment period: maximum of 12 years, including a
grace period of 3 years.
3.        GOT to BRI:
(a) Interest rate at 4% per annum;
(b) Repayable as BRI received repayments from its sub-borrowers.
4.        BRI to Sub-borrowers:
(a) Interest rate at 12% per annum;
(b) Sub-borrowers' contribution (including own labor and
other contributions in cash and in kind):
a minimum of 15% of the cost of investment, including
incremental working capital, subject to the following
exceptions:
(i) Bait fishermen 5%;
(ii) Private entrepreneurs operating trawlers and small
ice plants 25%;
(c) Repayment periods to be based on the repaying capacity of
the investments, but not to exceed:



SCHEDULE A
Page 2
(i) 12 years for cooperatives operating skipjack fishing
vessels including 2 years of grace;
(ii)  10 years without any grace period for bait fishermen
for the purchase of lift or beach seine nets;
(iii)  11 years, including one year of grace, for trawlers
and small ice plants;
(iv)  9 years, including a grace period of 3 years, for fish
and shrimp ponds in South Sulawesi; 12 years including
a grace period of 2 years for fish ponds in Java; and
9 years, including a grace period of up to 2 years for
shrimp ponds in Java.
(d)  BRI will lend up to 95% of investment cost for lift or beach
seine nets, 75% for trawlers and small ice plants operated
by private entrepreneurs, and 85% for all other investments.
(e)  Tnvestments would be evaluated in terms of incremental
returns resulting from the additional investments under
the project.
May 7, 1974



ANNEX 1
Page I
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Marine Fisheries
1.        Marine sources account for about two-thirds of Indonesia's annual
fisheries production (estimated at 1.27 million tons in 1972). The Indonesian
archipelago spread over an area of some 5 million km2 comprises many islands,
the larger ones of which include Java, Sumatra, Kalimantan, Sulawesi and the
Lower Sunda Islands. Indonesia has about 37,000 km of coastline (see Map).
2.        The waters of Indonesia can be roughly divided into four major
fishing areas, each with its distinct characteristics. For all areas,
the general pattern of water circulation varies seasonally under the
influence of the monsoons. The continental shelf of Western Indonesia
is characterized by its shallow waters and by its South China Sea fauna.
The area is exploited mostly by traditional fishermen, and intensive
exploitation is found along the north coast of Java and the islands
surrounding Singapore. Traditional fishing gear designed to catch small
pelagic fish such as scad and Indian mackerel is used, although trawlers
have recently been introduced to catch demersal fish. The deep waters
and coral reef areas of Eastern Indonesia contain fauna of the Pacific
Ocean, including yellowfin and skipjack tuna. Traditional fishermen fish
mostly around the coral reefs with lines, traps, or lift nets. The continen-
tal shelf of West Irian is considered the best fishing ground for shrimp,
although it also contains important resources of demersal fish. The waters
of the Indian Ocean along Nusa Tenggara Islands, Java and Sumatra have
virtually no continental shelf and instead are enriched with nutrients by
upswellings off the Australian coast and by western currents. The main
fish resources are pelagic and include skipjack, little tuny, frigate
mackerel and kingfish along the coast of Sumatra, the sardine Sardinos
melanostricta in the Bali Strait, and the yellowfin tuna.
3.        FAO estimated the potential catches from these waters at some
six million tons annually, or about seven times the present annual
landings (Table 1-2). The potential for shrimp catch is an annual
125,000 tons. The more productive areas - the so-called Upwelling Area -
comprising the Java, Arafura, Flores and Banda seas and covering about
750,000 km2, has a potential annual catch estimated at about 4 million tons.
The Java Sea alone has an estimated potential of 2 million tons.
4.        FAO also estimated the potential skipjack tuna resource in the
tropical Western Pacific at 250,000 tons, of which some 150,000 tons are
in Indonesian waters. The present annual catch of skipjack is about
5,000 tons. Annual landings by the on-going IDA financed skipjack operations
in Sulawesi (10,000 tons), and the proposed project at Ambon (6,500 tons)
would be considerably less than the potential catch.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        According to Indonesian Governmenti estimates, a total of 839,000
tons of marine fish were caught during 1972, by approximately 281,000
sailing boats and 7,000 motorized boats, manned by 890,000 fishermen
(Table 1-1). The sailboats were located primarily in Sulawesi (37%),
Java (15%), Sumatra (15%), and Maluku (12%). The number of motorized
vessels increased by 23% from 1970 to 1971, and 65% of the total were
located in Sumatra, principally Riau Province. Marine fishermen were
distributed most heavily in Sulawesi, Java and Sumatra.
6.        About 95% of the total fish catch is salted, dried or smoked,
with the remaining 5% sold as fresh fish. The distribution, marketing
and pricing of marine fish are taken up under Annex 11.
7.        Although fish accoumts for about 65% of the protein in -the
Indonesian diet, annual per capita consumption is only about 10 kg which
is low even by the standards of other less developed countries (comparable
figures for Philippines and Malaysia are about 30 kg). In recent years,
efforts have been made to improve production through the establishment of
State Fisheries Enterprises and of joint ventures with foreign capital.
The joint ventures process and export their catch, primarily shrimp, and
now operate 70 fishing vessels (Table 1-4). In addition, marine fisheries
development is encouraged through the introduction of modern fisheries
gear, tax incentives, and through increased training facilities and
extension services. Private domestic enterprises, most of which operate
shrimp trawlers, are also encouraged.
8.        Present marine fishing operations are confined mostly to shallow,
protected waters a short distance from the coast, which is the only area
accessible to small traditional fishing vessels. The traditional methods
of coastal fisheries are inefficient, resulting in low levels of production
per unit of effort. A great variety of fishing gear, including hook and
line, numerous types of fishing traps, lift nets, gill nets, and seines,
are used. Synthetic fibre netting is now commonly employed for all types
of nets. Lamps are often used to concentrate the fish before they are
caught in traps or nets. In addition to traditional fishing gear, otter
trawlers are used by a number of small motorized trawlers operating in
inshore areas.
9.        Total marine fish production in recent years has increased
slowly. Production rose from an estimated 785,000 tons in 1969 to 839,000
tons in 1972, an average annual increase of about 2%. The fishermen
in Java caught less over the period. This is because the coastal waters,
particularly the five-mile zone along the north coast of Java, has over
the years been overfished by sail boats using traditional gear and fishing
methods (para 8), though the Java sea beyond the reach of these boats
provides rich fishing grounds (para 3), especially for trawling, due to
its relatively flat bottom and shallow waters. As a result, private
entrepreneurs have begun to invest in trawlers in recent years. The
Government has likewise been promoting the use of trawlers by its State
Fisheries Enterprises and fisheries cooperatives. Although catches off
the Java coast are reported to be satisfactory, the little exploited
waters off South Kalimantan offer potentially larger catches.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
10.       Decreased production on Java is particularly serious, since
Java represents about two-thirds of the country's population and one-third
of its total fish consumption. To contribute towards improved production,
tnerefore,  twenty-five 30 GT trawlers would be provided under the project,
to be based in the ports of North Java and to fish in the relatively
unexploited waters off South Kalimantan. In addition, provision would be
made under the project to exploit the abundant resources of skipjack
tuna for export (para 4). This would involve development of a small skip-
Jack tuna industry in Ambon, including provision of twenty 30 GT skipjack
tuna fishing vessels and two 100 GT carrier vessels, and construction of
onshore supporting facilities, including icemaking, freezer and storage
units.
April 24, 1974






ANNEX 1
Table 1-1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Numb- Or Marine Fishinp, Vessels Registered in Indonesia (1971) 1"
Sailing Boats    Motorized Vessels    Fishermen
3- U1n~ t.~ rh 4L ;602                                  4,364              135,344
41,997               768              221,763
Kr,7' In rnt.qn                      18,021.            1,163               40,826
's ~ IS<] 1- ?w as                  104,004               153              259,459
N -s Ten9rara Isl3ands               26,459                25               62,004
Malulni And West Trian              418,844               247              174,365
Total       280,927             6,720              893,761
/I  Prtliminary data.
Sour-'e  Dire.ct.orate General of Fisheries.



ANNEX 1
Table 1-2
INWNETA
FISHERIES CEIT PROJECT
Landin-gs Of Sea Fisheries  1967 - 1972
(Thousands Tons)
1967     1968    1969      1970      1971 1/  191/
Siuna.trR.                          275-8    288.1   336.9    356.1    370.1        376.5
Java                                138.7    155.8   154.4    147.4    135.5        138.1
Kalima,ntan                          88.0     98.2    97.2      98.0      93.2       95.3
Sulawesi                           117.0    112.2   123.3    125.0    135.8         11X9.0
Nuisa Tenggrn.a Islands              30.0      32.6   3)4.7     36.5      29.?       32.1
ManIliku and Weest Trian             2R.5     31.1    38.8       39.0     46.2       47.2
Total      678.0    718.7   785.3    802.0    810.0         838.5
iT==D  ==in =s     2            -  ==  ='       _
in P^1 itt >)rmv data.
So3ir- ?:  Di reo'torat<  Gen-eral of 7Psheries



ANNEX 1
Table 1-3
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Sea Fisheries
Landings By Fishing Vessels From Java Island
And Total Landings For Indonesia
Island of Java                        All Indonesia
Total
Number                              Number          Total
of            Landings            Of              Landings
Year           Vessels         (000 tons)          Vessels         (000 tons)
1967            35,000          138.7              240.,000          678.0
1968            40,000           155.8             282,000           718.7
1969            40jOoo           1 54.4            284,000           785.3
1970            44t,0o0          147.4             289,000           802.0
19712;/         43,000           135.5             288,000           810.0
1972-/          43,000           138.1             285,000           838.5
Source: Directorate General ot' Fisheries.
1/ Preliminary data.



ANNEX 1
Table 1-4
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Foreign Capital And Joint Venture EntqrPrises For Shrimp Fishing And Processing
Number of
Name                          Fishing Area              Vessels      Production  Ex-ports
(and base)               (19 n )/Z      (1971)    -(19711
___-_ i,ons -------
P.T. Tofico Z                     West Kalimantan
West Irian                       IC            649          649
P.T. Misaja Mitra                 East and South Kalimantan         32            223          207
P.T. West Irian Fishing
Industries                   West Irian (Sorong)                A         1,009        1,009
P.T. Irian Marine Product
Development                  West Irian (Sorong)               ll            320          320
P.T. Nusantara                    West Irian (Ambon)                 5            462          466
P.T. Mina Kertika                 West Irian (Ambon)                 6            509          381
l   Capital of this company is 100% Japanese; other enterprises are
Japanese-Indonesian joint ventures,
12   Vessels are in the 90(T to 30(rrT range, except for those of Misaja Mitra
which has (1971) 22 vassels of 2OGT, 9 vessels of 6OGT and one vessel 4OOGT.
Son'"-    DI "+,ate Gn-nera. of' Fiqshertes.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Brackish Water Ponds
1.        Brackish water pond culture of milkfish and shrimp represents the
principal type of fish culture in Indonesia.1/ Milkfish or Chanos chanos
are found in the warm (20-33C) coastal waters of the Red Sea and the
Indian and Pacific Oceans. Despite its wide distribution, milkfish are
cultured on a large scale only in Indonesia, the Philippines and Taiwan.
Small scale culture occurs in a few other Asian countries because of limited
availability of milkfish fry and the impossibility of spawning the species
in captivity. Fully grown milkfish in its natural habitat reach weights of
up to 20 kg, though cultivated specimens are much smaller.
2.        Penaeid shrimp are found throughout much of the tropical world.
Although adaptable to a wide range of water temperatures, they are most
suited to 25-28°C. Penaeid shrimp generally breed at sea and subsequently
drift or swim into shallow coastal waters or estuaries, where they remain
for some time before returning to deeper waters. White shrimp (several
Penaeid species) and tiger shrimp (Penaeus monodon) are the two varieties
of marine shrimp most commonly found in Indonesia. Their life span is
about one year, during which they can be expected to grow to a maximum of
about 40 and 70 grams respectively, when confined to a pond and not allowed
to return to sea.
3.        There are about 184,000 ha of brackish water ponds in Indonesia,
the bulk of which are located along the north coast of Java and south coast
of Sulawesi. This is because these two regions have extensive estuarine
swamp areas suitable for pond development, greater abundance of milkfish
fry, and proximity to large population concentrations which provide market
outlets for the milkfish. Of the total. pond area, East Java accounts for
34%, Central Java 14%, West Java 16%, and South Sulawesi 21% (Table 2-1).
Most ponds are within 1 to 3 km of the sea, except in East Java where they
may be up to 20 km. Ponds vary in size from less than 1 ha up to 7 ha
with the average ranging from about 1 ha in Central and West Java to 4-5 ha
in East Java and Sulawesi. Most are operator-owned. These ponds do not
have a more productive alternative use.
4.        Brackish water culture in Indonesia has a long tradition.  It was
initiated at least 600 years ago as a mangrove swamp fishery using traps.
Gradually, the mangrove was removed, dykes were constructed, ponds built,
1/   Brackish water ponds account for about 85% of the total pond area,
with fresh water ponds the remaining 15%.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
and finally, the custom prevailed of stocking the ponds with milkfish fry
caught at sea. Individual ponds were built simply by bunding the perimeter
and levelling the bottom. Technical development has not advanced much
beyond this stage.
Present Fish Culture
5.        Though there are some minor differences in the technique employed
in milkfish culture among the major producing areas on Java and Sulawesi,
the following general cultural practices prevail. A pond area is usually
divided by secondary dykes into a nursery pond and one or more rearing
ponds. The first step in preparing for fry stocking is to drain the nursery
pond and allow it to dry for about a week. The dry bottom soil is then
loosened and levelled by raking and tilling following which the pond is
filled with water to allow a growth of blue green algae to develop on the
bottom of the pond. Fry, which the pond operator usually buys from a fry
dealer, are then introduced into the nursery pond. The fry would remain
in the pond between 20-60 days feeding on the bottom algae and growing to
fingerling size of 5-7 cm long, at which time they would be transferred to
rearing ponds. Preparation of the rearing ponds is similar to that for the
nursery ponds. The fingerlings would in turn remain in the rearing ponds
for 120-150 days feeding on the bottom algae and plankton and attaining a
size of 250-350 grams when they would be harvested and sold in a nearby
market, usually by the pond operator himself. The cycle then repeats
itself.
6.        Some fry may be captured in ponds near the coast by merely opening
the sluice gates on the incoming tide, but this is not an adequate means
of obtaining stock for culture. Most pond operators therefore purchase fry
from dealers. The main fry collecting areas are the north shore of Java
and along the coast of South Sulawesi. Abundant fry are caught by fishermen
in these areas and sold to fry dealers who in turn sell to pond operators.
Fry supplies are readily available and can easily be increased when needed.
7.        All brackish water shrimp cultivation takes place in milkfish
ponds which are generally within 1 km of the coast where water salinity is
sufficient for Panaeid shrimp requirements. Shrimp fry are generally not
intentionally introduced into the ponds by the pond operators but enter
the ponds with the inflow of water from the sea, though there are some
pond operators, mainly in South Sulawesi, who do stock their ponds with
shrimp fry caught at sea. For post pond operators, the production of
shrimp is in effect a byproduct of milkfish culture. In addition, other
fish such as mullet and tilapia, and crabs are also brought into the ponds
by the inflow of water, and they are harvested as byproducts of milkfish
production. Panaeid shrimp are carnivorous, feeding on dead snails, crabs
and insects off the pond bottom, and therefore co-exists with milkfish in
the same pond.
8.        Because milkfish is primarily a bottom algae feeder and, to a
lesser extent, a plankton feeder, promoting and maintaining maximum growth



ANNEX 2
Page 3
of this algae is essential. This has to be done by applying to the pond
bottom fertilizers and organic manure to provide adequate nutrients
required by the algae, and pesticides to eliminate algae pests and predators
(worms and snails) which compete with milkfish for food. Algae and milkfish
growth are affected by water conditions in the pond such as salinity levels,
water depth, and temperature. These conditions are in turn determined by
proper pond construction, including dykes, canals, and sluice gates, which
regulate the flow of water in and out of the ponds. Sunlight is required
for algae growth and the penetration of sunlight to the pond bottom would
be determined by the depth and clarity of the water. Another important
factor affecting the output of milkfish and the time required to reach
marketable size would be the extent by which stocking management would be
able to prevent over-grazing of the available natural food either through
fish population control or supplemental feeding.
9.        The majority of Indonesian pond operators do not use fertilizers,
including organic manure, and pesticides. Where organic manure is applied,
many use green manure of leaves and grass which are poor in nutrients
required by the algae. Moreover, many pond areas have very little control
if any, over water conditions, especially salinity levels and water depths,
because of poor pond construction, low dykes, narrow and shallow canals,
and incorrect positioning of the sluice gates, which do not permit effective
regulation of the flow of water in and out of the ponds. In many instances,
the number of these various water controlling devices are also inadequate.
Furthermore, fish stocking management for an effective use of the available
feed is virtually absent. In view of the above, pond yields are low,
averaging about 330 kg per ha annually, with milkfish accounting for less
than half (40-50%) the output. Crabs, shrimp, mullet, tilapia and other
fish, not usually intentionally introduced into the ponds, account for the
remaining output. The disproportionately small share of milkfish is
indicative of the low level of technology applied to the culture of this
fish. Another indication is that the majority of pond operators are able
to produce only a single harvest of milkfish a year. Table 2-2 shows the
total area, production, yields and average size of ponds in the two main
producing areas of Java and South Sulawesi.
Improved Fish Culture
10.       Though most Indonesian pond operators practice a low level of
milkfish culture, some of them have in recent years begun to adopt improved
cultural practices. Some control of water conditions in ponds have been
achieved through simple improvements, such as the raising of secondary dykes
and ditches, deepening of pond bottoms and canals, and additional sluice
gates. With some degree of water regulation and use of small amounts of
fertilizers (about 100-150 kg per ha) and in some instances pesticides,
these operators have been getting substantially higher yields as well as
two harvests a year. In some instances, instead of just nursery and rearing
ponds, transition ponds have been built, in which fingerlings from nursery
ponds are introduced to be better cared for before they are transferred to



ANNEX 2
Page 4
rearing ponds. Most operators adopting these simple improvements are
harvesting between 500-600 kg of milkfish and 100-150 kg of small shrimp
per ha per year, as well as some crabs, mullet, tilapia and other fish.
The milkEish yield would be about four fold larger than the average for
all Indonesian ponds (para 9). The estimated cost of these improvements:
excavation of canals, ditches and pond bottoms, raising of secondary dykes
(including additional ones for transition ponds), and additional sluice
gates would vary up to about Rp 100,000 per ha depending on the condition
of the pond area to be improved, though for most, an average of about
Rp 60,000 would be sufficient.
11.       For ponds near the coast with higher salinity levels, increased
emphasis is being given to shrimp production in addition to the culture of
milkfish. Shrimp thrive better in such ponds than in those away from the
coast with lower salinity levels. The emphasis on shrimp production,
especially of larger (exportable) size, has been increasing in recent years
as a result of strong export demand and high prices offered for this com-
modity. Milkfish as well as shrimp fry which are readily available, are
purchased from fry dealers for stocking in the ponds. Shrimp fry are also
purchased by pond operators since such fry brought into ponds by the inflow
of sea water would neither be adequate nor satisfactory for the purpose
of stocking. Pond preparation and the various stages of rearing for milk-
fish which have been described earlier, also applies to ponds which emphasis
both milkfish and shrimp production, except for the following: (a) Prior
to their introduction into common transition and rearing ponds, milkfish
and shrimp fry are put in separate nursery ponds to prevent possible
predation of milkfish fry by the shrimp fry. Predation would be very
unlikely once the milkfish fry attains fingerly size; and (b) compared to
milkfish, shrimp requires better water conditions as well as water of
higher salinity. This means more effective water control for ponds cultur-
ing both milkfish and shrimp production than for those which culture only
milkfish. Most pond operators culturing both milkfish and shrimp production
and who have carried out simple improvements similar to those described
earlier (para 10), have together with the use of fertilizers, organic
manure and pesticides, been getting about 300 kg of milkfish and between
250-350 kg of shrimp per ha annually compared with about 150 kg of milkfish
and 20-60 kg of shrimp before the improvements were made. The cost of
the improvements has been estimated at about Rp 100,000 per ha.
12.       Ponds with such technical improvements are few and concentrated
in areas close to the main urban centers on South Sulawesi and Java. Though
increasing, the spread in their number has been slow. This is because many
pond operators, especially those in remote areas, are not aware that substan-
tial increases in yields can be obtained through simple improvements, such
as better water control to obtain improved pond water conditions, and use
of fertilizers and pesticides. Shortage of credit is another important
factor mitigating against the rapid spread of pond improvement.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
The ProJect
13.       The proposed project would accelerate the spread of improved
practices by providing credit to pond operators to improve their ponds,
and to purchase fry, fertilizers and pesticides for the first harvest.
Details on the various investment items are given in Annex 5. The cost
of the improvements would on average be Rp 60,000-Rp 62,000 per ha for
milkfish ponds, and Rp 100,000-Rp 125,000 per ha for milkfish and shrimp
ponds. About 15,000 ha of ponds in South Sulawesi and Java would be
improved under the project, of which 7,000 ha would be the former type
and 8,000 ha of the latter. The projected distribution of the two types
of ponds among provinces and districts, the phasing of their development
over a 5-year period, and the average pond size and number of pond
operators involved, are given in Annex 3, Tables 3-1 and 3-2. The project
area would be restricted to Java and South Sulawesi because these two
areas have a regional comparative advantage for brackish water pond
culture. Ponds producing both shrimp and milkfish would be in coastal
areas with sufficient salinity levels for successful shrimp production.
Pond development for milkfish alone would be carried out further inland.
Project size has been determined by the availability of suitable pond
area, pond operator demand for such improvements, and with full account
taken of the limited capacity of the fisheries extension service and of Bank
Rakjat Indonesia's (BRI) limited experience in fish pond lending
14.       Successful implementation of the project requires strengthening
of the fisheries extension service (para 16) and establishment of 45 one to
five-ha demonstration ponds to demonstrate to pond operators the techniques
for improved production and their benefits. The proposed numbers and location
of the demonstration ponds among the different provinces in the project
area as well as the phasing of their development are given in Annex 3,
Table 3-3. Investment cost for each pond, a typical layout of which is
given in Annex 3, Chart 7864, would be about Rp 2 million. A breakdown of
the cost of the individual investment items is given in Annex 5. The ponds
would be developed among those owned by the Government or individuals.
There would be no difficulty in arranging with individual owners to use
their ponds for demonstration purposes.
15.       Under the project, the Directorate General of Fisheries (DGF)
would provide the demonstration ponds and strengthen its fisheries extension
service. To assist in this task, DGF would need the services of three
pond fisheries experts for a period of two years. The experts would develop
the demonstration ponds, train the required local fisheries extension
officers who would help pond operators carry out their pond improvements.
Terms of reference, qualifications and experience required of the experts
are given in Annex 10.
16.       In Sulawesi and Java, where the project ponds would be located,
the number assigned by DGF to inland fisheries extension work represents
one extension officer for about 680 ha of ponds and is inadequate. An



ANNEX 2
Page 6
appropriate coverage would be about 300 ha. There are at present 17
extension officers in the project pond areas. Ninety-five would be needed
for appropriate coverage, one to develop and supervise each of the 45 de-
monstration ponds and one to provide extension and loan appraisal services
to about 300 ha of ponds. The proposed number of extension officers and
their allocation among the different provinces over the project period are
giIen in Annex 3, Table 3-4.  All extension officers would be required to
hold the equivalent of a diploma from a senior inland fisheries high school.
The appraisal of loan applications for pond improvements would be carried
out by the extension officer concerned, who would prepare a plan for each
pond indicating the improvements needed, their phasing and costs, and
expected financial returns. BRI would sanction loans on the basis of such
plans submitted by the extension officers and would disburse the loan in
appropriate installments. It would ensure that a second or subsequent
installment was not disbursed without certification from the extension
officer concerned that the previous installment had been fully used accord-
ing to the plan. Because successful implementation of fish pond improvement
depends on the provision of the experts, trained extension officers and
demonstration ponds, DGF would undertake that the experts would be appointed
and in position as soon as possible, and the extension officers
and ponds made available at least for the duration of the project. The
qualifications and experiences, as well as terms and conditions of employ-
ment of the experts, would be approved by IDA. In cooperation with the
center for brackish water culture research and development (para 19-20),
the experts would prepare and implement a suitable program, satisfactory
to IDA, for the training of project extension officers at the center. Each
extension officer would also be trained in the region and under conditions
in which he would be working, primarily through on-site experience with the
demonstration ponds. Both the establishment of the demonstration ponds and
the availability of trained officers would precede the scheduled pond
improvements. Assurances were obtained that DGF would comply with the above
conditions.
17.       The project would provide credit to fisheries cooperatives and
private entrepreneurs for the purchase of nine small ice plants which would
supply ice to preserve the quality of project fish and shrimp enroute to
market. Project fish ponds are widely scattered. Several small ice plants
to be located in production areas where ice is not available, would be
preferable to a single large plant, because of the lack of suitable facil-
ities to transport ice over long distances. The siting of the ice plants
would be determined by DGF on the advice of the pond fisheries experts
(para 15). Each of the small ice plants, costing about Rp 18.5 million
(US$45,000), would have a capacity of 5 tons of block ice per day, storage
space for 15 tons of ice, and equipped with a generator set. Small plants
of this capacity are already operating successfully in Java. Before project
loans for the ice plants could be given to fisheries cooperatives, DGF would
appraise their management capability. Where this capability is deficient,
DGF would require that a trained manager be posted to run the cooperatives
(as it has done for many fisheries cooperatives), and that trained tech-
nical staff be made available to operate the ice plant effectively.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Advance Fish Culture
18.       In Taiwan, intensive production with annual yields of up to
2,500 kg of milkfish per ha have been achieved, through excellent water
control and the adoption of adequate modern inputs (including fertilizers,
pesticides and supplementary feeds), as well as advanced production and
management practices. To obtain excellent water control would in most
instances require the use of large canals, gates and high dykes involving
mechanized equipment and heavy construction expenditures. In contrast,
Indonesian pond culture practices are traditional and of low productivity.
To try and raise the yields within a few years to the high levels prevail-
ing in Taiwan would be unrealistic, because this requi.res a capital inten-
sive technology and a management competence which the Indonesian pond
operators (particularly small operators) cannot be expected to acquire
rapidly. In view of this, the project aims at financing pond improvements
at an intermediary level of technology suitable for dissemination to small
operators, as an initial step in the long range development of more inten-
sive pond culture in Indonesia. With this long range development in mind,
the project demonstration ponds would demonstrate improvements envisaged
under the project, as well as more advanced pond culture practices for
intensification of milkfish and shrimp production based on the future
findings of DGF's center for brackish water fish culture research, currently
being developed with UNDP support at Jepara, Central Java.
Research
19.       The objective of the Jepara center for brackish water pond culture
is to expand and increase the efficiency of pond culture of milkfish and
shrimp on a national scale, through research on improved cultural techniques,
and field testing and extension of the improved techniques among pond
operators. The long range research and development work program of the
center would include:
(a) Introduction of improved methods of milkfish culture, adapting
them as necessary to local conditions, and development of new
techniques for increasing the efficiency of operations.
(b) Undertake in the vicinity of Jepara, demonstration of success-
ful techniques of milkfish culture, and training of field
personnel, including extension workers, in the application
of such techniques.
(c) Development of suitable methods of intensive and semi-intensive
culture of shrimp under local conditions, including the mass
rearing of shrimp larvae.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
(d) Undertake surveys and studies to determine distribution, and
improve collection, handling, and transport of milkfish and
shrimp fry.
(e) Investigations on the effects and extent of pollution, and of
pesticides and herbicides, on shrimp and milkfish culture,
and to evolve suitable measures for controlling any adverse
effects.
20.       Since improved techniques and other research findings of the
center will of necessity have to be tested under various environmental
conditions, project demonstration ponds would play a useful role by 4M-
plementing the improved techniques for both the purpose of field testing
and demonstration to pond operators. The center would also be able to
assist in the training of the extension officers required by the project
(para 16).
November 16, 1973



ANNEX 2
Table 2-1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Area of Brackish Water Ponds
By Principal Producing Areas, 1971
Area
Province                              ha
East Java                            63,229          34
West Java                             28s935         16
Central Java                         25,771          14
South Sulawesi                       37,697          21
Others (rest of Indonesia)           28,167          15
Total                            183,799         100
Source: DGF



ANNEX 2
Table 2-2
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Area, Average Size and Production of Fish Ponds in
the Principal Producing Areas, 1971
South            East       Central         West
Sulawesi         Java       Java            Java
Total Area (ha)                            37,697         63,229        25,771        28,935
Total Production (tons)                    15,100         16,200         9,900        10,900
Of Which:
Milkfish                               6,0oo          8,100         3,000         4,400
Shrimp                                   650          3,000         1,300         1,000
Average Total Production
Per Ha (kg)                                  400            260           380           380
Average Size of Fishpond
Farm  (ha)                                      5             4             1             1
Milkfish Cropping Intensity                30% of the    4o% of the   20% of the    30% of the
area cropp-   area cropp-  area cropp-   area cropp-
ing twice a   ing.twice a  ing twice a   ing twice
year          year          year           a year
Annual Milkfish Fry Catch
(million)                                    117            110             2             2
Milkfish Production Phasing:
(days)
Nursery ponds                             60         20-ho         50-60             60
Rearing ponds                        120-150        120-150       120-150           150



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Major Project Components and their Specifications
Ambon Subproject
1.        Indonesian waters have been known, since before World War II,
for their abundant resources of tuna,. The yellowfin tuna, Thunnus
Albacares, has been in high demand and has long been exploited by Japanese
longliners. Demand and price of this species have been rising continuously,
while catch per unit of effort has diminished. Skipjack tuna, Euthynnus
Pelamis, a species of smaller size and darker meat - is found in great
abundance in the Ceram, Banda and Maluku seas (Annex 1, para 4). It has
recently been subject to increasing international demand, as the yellowfin
tuna resources are overexploited and increasingly contaminated by mercury.
Wider consumer acceptance of the skipjack's darker meat and its increasing
use for mixing with the lighter meat of other tuna has added to the demand.
The price of skipjack has accordingly been on an upward trend. The ex-
vessel price in Japan during the first 3 months of 1974 at about US$530
per ton, is about double that in 1967. In view of this, the Government of
Indonesia has decided to exploit its skipjack tuna resources more fully,
and essentially for export. The proposed project would greatly assist in
this effort.
2.        Under the project, it is proposed to develop skipjack tuna fishing
based on Ambon island, through the provision of twenty 30 GT pole and line
fishing boats; two 100 GT carrier vessels for transporting ice and fuel to
the fishing boats and bringing the catch back to Ambon; on-shore supporting
facilities, including icesaking, freezer, and storage units, 2 small
jetties for provisioning the fishing boats, a jetty for loading and
unloading the carrier vessels and loading a freezer vessel with frozen
skipjack for export, and repair facilities and slipway for the carrier
vessels and fishing boats; about 54 lift or beach seine nets for bait fishing;
and technical assistance. About half of the fishing boats and nets, the two
carrier vessels and on-shore supporting facilities would be owned and
operated by the State Fisheries Enterprise at Ambon (PNM), a suitable entity
to implement the subproject. Surrounded by the Ceram, Banda, and Maluku
seas, and with fishermen many of whom have for many years been engaged in
catching skipjack for the local market, Ambon would be a suitable location
for the proposed project. An FAO study (test fishing) of bait fish
resources for skipjack fishing in Ambon waters carried out during January
1971 to March 1972, concluded that there would be sufficient bait to
sustain at least an additional 20 fishing boats of the type envisaged under
the project (para 3), which in turn would determine the size of the
supporting facilities.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.        The 20 skipjack fishing boats which would be of the 3OGT class
powered by a 150 hp diesel engine, and with an overall length of about
18 m and a depth of approximately 2 m, would be designed for pole and
line fishing using live bait. They would be provided with insulated fish
holds capable of storing up to 5 tons of skipjack (Chart 8044). Each boat
would carry a crew of 30. These type boats have been operating successfully
in Japan, Caroline Islands, and Indonesia, and are familiar to Indonesian
fishermen engaged in skipjack fishing. They are also of a desirable
minimum size to enable fishing to be carried out during the monsoon period
in Ambon waters where smaller craft would not be able to operate. Instead
of project fishing boats journeying to Ambon to unload skipjack catch and
to load ice, fuel, and other supplies for the return trip to the fishing
grounds, it would be more efficient and profitable to use carrier vessels
to perform these functions and to allow fishing vessels maximum time in their
fishiirg operations. Two 100 GT carrier vessels to be provided by the project
would be suitable for this purpose. Powered by a 240 hp diesel engine, the
carrier vessel would have an overall length of about 25 m and a depth of
approximately 3 m, with insulated fish holds capable of storing up to
15 tons of skipjack preserved in 15 tons of ice in about 20 tons of sea water
(Chart 7843). Each vessel would be manned by a crew of 7. Investment costs
including incremental working capital are estimated at about Rp 24 million
(US$57,800) per fishing boat and Rp 67.4 million (US$162,400) per carrier
vessel. All vessels would have wooden hulls, as wood is cheap and readily
available locally. Skippers and other crew for the fishing and carrier
vessels would be available at Ambon.
4.        The icemaking, freezer, and cold storage complex would include
cold storage rooms for 500 tons of frozen skipjack maintained at -25*C,
brine tanks with a capacity of freezing 25 tons of skipjack a day to -25°C;
an ice plant capable of producing 50 tons of ice daily with adequate ice
storage facilities, offices and store room, as well as three generator sets
of some 1250 KVA, including 33% standby capacity to provide the necessary
power (Chart 7841). This size complex would be sufficient for project
needs. Total investment cost for the complex is estimated at approximately
Rp 691 million (US$1.665 million). The complex would be located on a site
adjacent to PNM's present location. This site would be suitable for the
complex as it has ample level ground, good water depth within a short distance
off the shore, and a plentiful supply of fresh water. The main jetty would be
constructed on the same site, using local contractors and local hardwoods,
and would be about 60 m long and 6 m wide.  The outer face would be used
as a berth for all vessels and the inner face could be used by the carrier
vessels when the outer berth is occupied by the freezer vessel, so that
normal operations would not be interrupted. The main skipjack fishing
grounds would be in waters off the fishing villages of Hitu and Waai where
food and drinking water would be available. Small jetties, approximately 3 m
wide and long enough to allow a minimum water depth of 3 m, would be con-
structed in the fishing villages to facilitate access to food, drinking water
and bait supplies by the skipjack fishing boats. Costs of the jetties are
estimated to be Rp 41.5 million (US$100,000) at the proposed cold store
complex site and Rp 12.45 million (US$30,000) each at Hitu and Waai.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
5.        Other investments under the skipjack fishing subproject include
construction of a new slipway and enlargement of the present workshop
facilities to be located at the present PNM site, and estimated to cost
Rp 41.7 million (US$100,000). These facilities would be required to
service project vessels. In addition, credit would be provided for the
purchase of about 54 lift or beach seine nets by PNM, fishermen and fisheries
cooperatives to catch sufficient bait fish for the skipjack fishing operations
of the project. The cost of each net would be about Rp 500,000 (US$1,200).
6.        Each of the 20 skipjack boats - about 10 to be owned by PNM
and the remainder by the fisheries cooperatives - would be fishing
approximately 250 days per year and catching an average 1.3 tons per day
for an annual total of 325 tons. Average fishing activity would be 21 days
per month and would account for the 5 days of full moon when bait is
unavailable and for other contingencies. Due to various contingencies,
it would also be expected that only 16 of the 20 boats would be operating
at any one time. With a catch averaging 1.3 tons per fishing day for each
boat, the 16 boats would accordingly land about 21 tons daily (para 7).
Each boat would require 300 liters of diesel fuel and 1.3 tons of ice each
day. The jetties at Hitu and Waai would be used to take on food, water,
crew and bait.
7.        The two carrier vessels would simultaneously service the 20
fishing boats. The trip from the port of Ambon to the fishing grounds off
Hitu and Waai would be approximately 5 hours. Each vessel would leave
Ambon Bay in the early morning with approximately 4,800 liters of diesel
fuel, 48 liters of lubricating oil, and 22 tons of ice and would return
the same evening with about 10 tons of skipjack tuna. The two carrier vessels
would have fish holds capable of storing up to 30 tons of skipjack (para 3).
The skipjack upon arrival at the jetty at Ambon (Halong), would be transported
by trolley to the freezing and cold storage complex, where it would be frozen
in a brine solution for 12 hours and then preserved in cold store rooms. The
carrier vessels and all on-shore facilities would be owned and operated by
PNM. The 500 ton capacity of the cold storage rooms could accommodate
approximately 1 month's catch. This would include the catch of the coop-
eratives, which would be purchased by PNM according to the terms of a
negotiated contract. PNM would also arrange for a purchasing contract
with one of the several foreign companies involved in Indonesia fisheries.
A purchasing contract could easily be obtained. Negotiated prices would
be geared to world market prices. PNM could alternatively arrange to
have the catch shipped through chartered freezer vessels to consuming
countries to be sold through appointed selling or commission agents.
8.        The 54 lift or beach seine nets to be provided under the project
would be used to net daily approximately 2 tons of bait fish required to
catch the daily landings of some 20 tons of skipjack. The nets would be
owned by PNM and by groups of fishermen who would operate in the areas of
Ambon Bay, Hitu, and Waai where bait is available. These fishermen would be
grouped into cooperatives wherever practical. About 20 fishermen would
operate each net during 25 days of the month, and would catch approximately
40 kg per day for a total of 1 ton' per month. They would be paid 100 Rp/kg



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(current price) by PNM and skipjack fisheries cooperatives for their bait
fish.
9.        The new slipway and expanded workshop, under the ownership and
operation of PNM, would be used for needed repair and maintenance of vessels
(see Chart 7839). All project vessels would require 2-3 days maintenance
every 6 months when vessel bottoms would be scraped and their engines over-
hauled. The new slipway and existing one would be provided with an electric
uphauling winch, and the workshop with the necessary carpentry and machine
tools. The project vessels of the cooperatives would be assessed a service
charge for use of these facilities.
10.       PNM would, under the proposed project, invest in and subsequently
operate about 10 skipjack tuna boats and 27 lift or beach seine nets, 2 car-
rier vessels and all proposed onshore facilities, including ice making,
freezing and storage units, slipways, workshop, offices and jetties. More-
over, it would assume responsibility for the processing, preservation and ex-
port of skipjack caught by both its own vessels and those of the cooperatives.
It would commit itself to purchase all skipjack caught by the project vessels
for sale to export markets. Four experts would be required to assist PNM
to undertake these new responsibilities and substantially expanded operations.
The type of experts and their periods of employment are given in Annexes 4
and 10.
11.       The project would provide credit for about ten fishing boats and
27 lift or beach seine nets to fishermen and existing fisheries cooperatives.
As many as 7 cooperatives would be involved, and most of them are already
engaged in skipjack fishing.
Trawler Subproject
12.       The Java Sea provides rich trawling grounds.  Its bottom is
relatively flat (continental shelf) and its waters are shallow. However,
fish resources of parts of the Java Sea have been subject to overexploitation.
In particular, the five-mile zone along the north coast of Java has over
the years been overfished by sail boats using traditional methods. As
a result, private entrepreneurs during recent years have begun to invest
in trawlers to exploit the fish resources beyond the reach of the sail
boats. Although catches are reported to be satisfactory, the little
exploited waters off South Kalimantan offer potentially larger catches.
Both areas contain mainly demersal fish, including pomfret, croaker, red
snapper, sole and shrimp. However, the size of catch, as well as the
percentage of shrimp in each catch, are said to be higher in the waters off
South Kalimantan. For these reasons, the trawlers to be provided under
the project would be expected to fish primarily these waters.
13.       The estimated 150 trawlers presently operating in the Java Sea
would be exploiting only a small proportion of the potential catch. There
is consequently a growing demand for such vessels. The project would
finance 25 trawlers. Available evidence suggests that they would easily
be taken up by potential borrowers (private entrepreneurs and fisheries
cooperatives). The trawlers of the 30 GT class with wooden hulls would be



ANNEX 3
Page 5
powered by 120 hp diesel engines (see Chart 7842). They would be about
19 m long and 2 m deep and would be provided with insulated fish holds
capable of accommodating about 6 tons of fish and shrimp, a pair of side
roller winches, and a radio set for communication. This type of vessel is
presently operating successfully in the Java Sea. Each would carry a crew
of ten. Trained crew for the trawlers would be available locally. For each
trawler, the investment cost including incremental working capital is
estimated at about Rp 23 million (US$55,200).
1.4.      Estimated annual catch of the 25 trawlers is 5,250 tons or 210
tons per trawler. The trawlers would be based in the principal ports of
the North Java coast - Surabaya, Jakarta, Probolinggo, Semarang, Tuban,
Sidoardjo, Tegal, Cirebon, or Pekalongan, where water depth is sufficient,
adequate markets exist and facilities for processing shrimp are available.
The trawlers would undertake trips of about three days to the waters off
South Kalimantan. About 12 hours would be required for travel to and
from the area, and the remaining two days would be spent to catch an
estimated average of three tons. Each vessel would make approximately
70 trips per year.
Fish Ponds Subproject
15.       Under the project, it is proposed to finance simple improvements
on 15,000 ha of milkfish and shrimp ponds on Java and Sulawesi, and estab-
lishment of demonstration ponds and small ice plants. The project would
also provide technical assistance to help pond operators carry out their
pond improvements, develop demonstration ponds and train local fisheries
extension officers. Details of the project are given in Annex 2. Tables 3-1
and 3-2 show the projected distribution of project ponds among the provinces
and districts, the phasing of their development, and the average pond size
and number of operators involved. The proposed numbers and location of
the demonstration ponds among the different regions as well as the phasing
of their development are given in Table 3-3. Table 3-4 shows the number
of extension officers required under the project and their allocation among
the different provinces over the project period. A typical layout of a
demonstration pond is illustrated in Chart 7864.
April 24, 1974






ANNEX 3
Table 3-1
INDONESIA
FISTERIES CEFDITT PROJECT
Proposed Project Areas
(ha)
Provinep          Shrim  Pond          Fish Pond           Total
South Sulawesi
(mainly in
Penghap and
Yavos Pistricts)        1,000            2,000             3,000
East Java
(main] JSidoarjo
and Surabaja
Districts)             2,500             2,500             5,000
Central Java
(mainly Pati,
KXnda I, Pemalang,
and Brebes
Districts)              3,000            1,500             4,500
West. Java
(mainly Cirebon
District)               1,500            1,000             2,500
Total     8                 7,000           15,000



INDOBNP IA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Area To Be Improved in 5 Years (ha)
Year                                   Ave. Size    Nc. of
1        2         3         4         5       TOTAL      (ha)       Farmers
S. Sulawesi         4oo    1,000     1,000       600         -      3,000       5            600
East Java           800    1,600     1,600     1,,000               5,000       4          1,250
Central Java        500   1,000      1,000     1,000     1,000      4,500       1          4,500
West Java           500      500       500       500       500      2,500        1         2,500
TOTAL             2,200    4,100     4,100     3,100     1,500     15,000                  8,850
'D 
5.



ANNEX 3
Table 3-3
INDONESIA
FISJFRIES CMEbIT PROJECT
Pemonstration Ponds to be Constructed in 5 years
1    2    3    h   5    TOTAL
S. FIu}hwesi                           3    3    2   -        10
Pst Javw                          3    3    4    -   -        10
%pn+.ral Java                     ?    5    5    3   -        i5
West Java                         ?    3    3    2   -        10
TOTAL                             9   11   15    7   -        5
Total Construction Cost*         htU  70   75   35   -      225
(Ts- '00  r)
* US.¢ %,OOO ver Dond.



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PPOJECT
Required Demonstration Pond Supervisors and Extensi.on Workers
Year                             1     2       3      h       5      Total
Required Demonstration Pond Supervisors
S. Sulawesi                      2     3       3      2       -       JO
E. Java                          3     3                  -           10
C. Java                          2     5       5      3       -        C¢
W. Java                          2      3      3      2       -       10
TOTAL                            9    Th      15      7                c
Required Extension Workers
S. Sulawesi                      1             3      2       _      10
E. Java                          2     6       5      4       -      17
C. Java                          2     3       4      3       3      15
W. Java                          2     2       1      2       1       8
TOTAL                            7    15      13     11      _        5°
ALL TOTAL                       16    29      28     18       4       95
Existing Extension Workers                                            17
Additional Extension Workers Required                                 78



Annex 3
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
EXAMPLE OF ACCEPTABLE DESIGN FOR 30 G.T.
WOODEN SKIPJACK LIVE BAIT POLE AND LINE FISHING VESSEL
PRINCIPAL PARTICULARS
LENGTH                                    17.50 M
BREADTH                                    3.90 M
DEPTH                                      1.80 M
GROSS TONNAGE (ABT)                        30.0 Tons
MAIN ENGINE                                 150 H.P.
SERVICE SPEED                               8.5 Knots
FISH HOLD CAPACITY                        28.79 M3
FUEL OIL TANK                              2.81 M3
FRESH WATER TANK                           1.44 M3
COMPLEMENT                                   30 Persons
SCALE 1/70
World Bank-8044






4nnemx 3
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
EXAMPLE OF ACCEPTABLE DESIGN FOR 100 G.T.
WOODEN SKIPJACK CARRIER
PRINCIPAL PARTICULARS
LENGTH                                     25.40 M
BREADTH                                     5.10 M
DEPTH                                       2.60 M
GROSS TONNAGE (ABT)                        100.0 Tons
MAIN ENGINE                                 240 H.P.
SERVICE SPEED                               8.0 Knots
FISH HOLD CAPACITY                          85.0 M3
FUEL OIL TANK                               13.6 M3
FRESH WATER TANK                             1.8 M3
COMPLEMENT                                    7 Persons
SCALE 1/200
A  CREWS SPACE
B  ENGINE ROOM
C = FISH HOLD                                                   World Bank---7843






INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
AMBON COLD STORE AND ICE PLANT
POSSIBLE FUTURE EXTENSION
~~~~~~~    I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~( 
i     I                    I
l ~    ~       ~       _____   _____ __                   ___
FISH         .  | *      COLD                                u
FHEEzING             STOREz
TAEZNKS      *E-         No. 2                                 ECONDENSERS,|
O                           ICE                         TAN KS, ETC. 
O                           MAKING
OFFICES            ,                                          i      LN
WOR KSHOPS                                  ,      CO LD
\          v   >       ~~~~~~~~No. 3
TANLKL   ,z * C          .                 ~~~~~G EN ERATORS
/~~~~~I .
s_            *$~~'___1________                                                      I
OFFICE    ICE
SCALES   '               STORE          DAILY
STOS                    .     STORE        ICE LOADING6                  01                    5
TAK             *                                                                     IWorld Bank-7841






Anmt 3
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
IMPROVEMENTS TO
P.N SHIP REPAIR FACILITIES AT AMBON (GALALAM
I   /  DERELICT   \         \    /       /       /      /~~EXSTIG OFIC
EXITIN C/  STO BE REBUILT
}      /   ~~~AS REPAIR SHOP//                ,°/      /       / 
<EEAND GEERLSTR
9   <  /     /       /                   \                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    5   10  15  20  25M
|  NEW ELECTRIC            /                                                                I    I    I    I
i    WINCH                    /        
l           ~~~EXISTING METAL SHOP            EXliING SW MLL
IYCIKDnCEr
EXISTING COLE) STORE
AND GENERAL STORE
AMBON  4km                                                                                  HALONG 2km
World Bank-7839






INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
EXAMPLE OF ACCEPTABLE DESIGN FOR 30 G.T.
WOODEN TRAWLER
PRINCIPAL PARTICULARS
LENGTH                                       18.97 M
BREADTH                                      4.11 M
DEPTH                                         1.90 M
GROSS TONNAGE (ABT)                          30.0 Tons
MAIN ENGINE                                   120 H.P.
SERVICE SPEED                                 7.5 Knots
FISH HOLD CAPACITY                           25.34 M3
FUEL CIL TANK                                 4.64 M3
FRESH WATER TANK                              1.00 M3
COMPLEMENT                                     10 Persons
SCALE 1/100
Wiorld Bank-7842






Annex
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
TYPICAL LAYOUT FOR 5 HA.
DEMONSTRATION FISH POND
200m
I~~~~~~~~ I>
r..,                          '---..
I RP           .             ! z . RP I
1.0 Ha.                    1.0 Ha.
r       I
_  11   <  o         1t       >           ~~~~~~~LEGEND:
- ( ----------)   . J r----                                M R.P.  REARING POND
LO                           = _.                                 T.P.  TRANSITiON POND
I    ,   l   ,                 ,          ~~~~~~~~N.P.  NURSERY POND
RP                    fiRP                          PL.  PLATFORM (FOR HOUSE ETC,)
1.0 Ha.                        1.0 Ha. 
!  ,   ,  .  . '                  ,            z    ~~~~~~~~~MAIN GATE
-nr _SECONDARY GATE
02Ha.  PL            0.2 Ha.                WAVE PROTECTION
NP <_   i     )        l        /           Z&P;A,  (MANGROVE OR BAMBOO)
_      ~                             X ~          Scale 1:2000
MAIN RIVER OR CREEK
7m     7m       1Om     7m      7m
4                            4W
08m             1G0m    1.5m
SECTION THROUGH MAIN CANAL,
DYKES AND DITCHES                                              World Bank-7864






ANNPR 
INDONESTA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Project ImPlementation Schedule
Year             1         2       3           I         5       Total
1.  Project Experts (% of
Total Time):
Management Adviser           15       25         25         25       10        100
Cold Store (Electrical/
Mechanical) Engineer        20       30         30         20         -       100
Civil Engineer               50       50          -          -        -        100
Naval Architect              20       30         30         20         -       100
Fish Pond %recialists        25       50         25          -         -       100
2.  On-Shore Farllities
Cold Store Complex,
and Repair Facilities                *
JettiPs (no.)                 -        3          -          -         -         3
3.  Pnrriper Vps.]s (no.)         -        1          3          -         -         2
1.  Ski.njack Vessels (no.)       -        2         18           -        -        20
5. Trawlers (no.)                 -       12          5          8         -        25
6.  Tce Plants (no.)              -        3          3          2         1         9
7. Demonstration Ponds
(no.)                     I3       14        15           7        -         45
8.  Pond Improvements (ha)   2,200    14,100      4,100      3,100    1,500    15,000
9.  Lift Nets/Beach Seines (no.) _         4         50          -         -        5L
* Com1peted in Year 2
Aupur+, 1, 197 






ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Unit Costs
I.   Ambon Sub-project
A.   Skipjack Vessel
Investment Costs                                E
1.   Wooden hull including equipment            15,000,000
2.   Diesel engine including stern gear
and propeller                          7,500,000
Total            22,500,000
Annual Operating Costs
3,   Commissions                                 2,926,000
4.   Catch bonus                                  7,503,000
5.   Fuel and lubricants                          1,315,000
6.  Maintenance and repair                        1,125,000
7.   Ice                                         3,900,000
8.   Insurance                                    1,350,000
9.  Overhead                                      1,200,000
10.   Bait                                        3,250,000
Total            22,569,000
B.   Beach Seine
Investment Costs
1.   Beach seine net with 6 lamps                   500,000
Annual Operating Costs
2.   Lamp oil                                         6,000
3.   Maintenance and repair                           6,000
4.   Wages                                          768,000
Total               780,000



ANNEX 5
Page 2
C.   Carrier Vessel                                       Rp
Investment Costs
1.   Wooden hull includ:tng equipment            50,000,000
2.   Diesel engine including stern gear
and propeller                           12,000,000
Total            62,000,000
Annual Operating Costs
3.   Fuel and lubricants                          2,458,000
4.   Insurance                                    3,720,000
5.   Maintenance and repair                       3,100,000
6.   Wage                                         1,050,000
7.   Overhead                                     1,200,000
Total            11,528,000
D.   On-Shore Facilities
Investment Costs
1.   Engineering Investigations and Design:
Local assistance                            15,000,000
2.   Landing facilities:
Jetty Ambon                                 41,500,000
Jetties Hitu and Waai                       24,900,000
3.   Fish Freezing and Storing and Ice Plant:
(i) Machinery and Equipment:
Generators                           124,400,000
Refrigeration machinery               96,400,000
Ice making equipment                  56,500,000
Piping, wiring, etc.                  32,300,000
Loading & unloading equipment         20,700,000
Miscellaneous                         35,000,000



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Rp
(ii)  Buildings, etc.:
Cold store & ice plant building    123,000,000
Cold store & ice plant insulation   42,300,000
Land acquisition and fencing          62,000,000
Site works (building foundations,
levelling, roads, hardstanding,
septic tanks)                      34,400,000
(iii) Freight and Insurance:
Materials for ice plant/cold
store                              49,100,000
Total           676,100,000
4.   Repair Yard and Slipway:
Building extension                           6,200,000
Repair equipment                            14,500,000
Slipway - civil works                       10,000,000
Slipway - mechanical and electrical         11,000,000
Total            41,700,000
Total 1-4                                       799,200,000
Annual Operating Costs
1.   Landing Facilities, Cold Store,
Ice Plant and Freezing:
(i)   Local staff                            2,900,000
(ii)   General overhead                        2,000,000
(iii)   Insurance on structures,
buildings & equipment               6,400,000
(iv)   Generator running costs                18,000,000
(v)   Lubrication                               700,000
(vi)   Ammonia                                 1,000,000
(vii)   Salt                                    2,100,000
(viii)   Maintenance and repairs                 2,500,000
(ix)   Labor (a) Regular                       7,600,000
(b) Loading refrigerator
vessel                    1,500,000
(x)   Jetty maintenance                       3,300,000
(xi)   Protective clothing, etc.               2,000,000
Total            50,000,000



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Rp
2.   Slipway and Boat Repair Yard:
(i)  Permanent staff                         1,050,000
(ii) Insurance on structures,
buildings & equipment                 400,000
(iii)  Generator running costs                    50,000
(iv)  Maintenance of slipway & equipment   1,500,000
Total             3,000,000
II.   Trawler Sub-project
Investment Costs
1.   Wooden hull including equipment             15,000,000
2.   Diesel engine including stern gear
and propeller                            6,000,000
Total            21,000,000
Annual Operating Costs
3.   Commission                                     969,000
4.   Wage                                         1,500,000
5.   Fuel and lubricants                          1,346,250
6.   Fishing gear                                   850,000
7.   Maintenance and repair                       1,050,000
8.   Ice                                            840,000
9.   Food and water                               1,120,000
10.   Salt                                         1,400,000
11.   Insurance                                    1,260,000
12.   Catch bonus                                  1,808,000
13.   Overhead                                     1,200,000
Total            13,343,000
III.   Fish Pond Sub-project
A.   Typical Milkfish Pond Improvement - Java
(1 ha)
Investment Costs
1.   Dykes and ditches                               43,800
2.   Canals                                          11,200
3.   Gates                                            3,700
Total                58,700



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Annual Operating Costs
4.   Harvesting and maintenance                      30,300
5.   Fish fry                                       22,000
6.   Fertilizer                                       7,625
7.   Insecticide                                      4,625
8.   Miscellaneous                                    2,000
Total                66,550
B.   Typical Shrimp Pond Improvement - Java
( ha)
Investment Costs
1.   Dykes and ditches                              70,100
2.   Canals                                         23,400
3.   Gates                                            7,000
4.   Equipment                                       4,700
Total               105,200
Annual Operating Costs
5.   Harvesting and maintenance                      76,500
6.   Shrimp fry                                      17,500
7.   Milkfish fry                                     9,000
8.   Fertilizer                                       9,700
9.   Insecticide                                      4,000
10    Miscellaneous                                    4,000
Total               120,700
C.   Typical Milkfish Pond Improvement
South Sulawesi (5 ha)
Investment Costs
1.   Dykes and ditches                              208,900
2.   Canals                                          52,200
3.   Gates                                           17,40
Total               278,500



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Rp
Annual Operating Costs
4.   Harvesting and maintenance                    180,000
5.   Fish fry                                       37,500
6.   Fertilizer                                    30,000
7.   Insecticide                                    25,000
8.   Miscellaneous                                   5,000
Total              277,500
D.   Typical Shrimp Pond Improvement
South Sulawesi (5 ha)
Investment Costs
1.   Dykes and ditches                            318,250
2.   Canals                                        106,070
3.   Gates                                          31,820
4.   Equipment                                      21,260
Total              477,400
Annual Operating Costs
5.  Harvesting and maintenance                     325,000
6.   Shrimp fry                                    112,500
7.  Milkfish fry                                    22,500
8.   Fertilizer                                     50,000
9.   Insecticide                                    25,000
10.  Miscellaneous                                   15,000
Total              550,000
E.  Milkfish Pemonstration Pond
(5 ha) 
Investment Costs
1.  Main channel and dykes                        750,000
2.  Perimeter and ditch                           675,000
3.  Nursery and transition ponds                   150,000
4.   Secondary dykes                               300,000
5.  Master gates                                    80,000
6.   Secondary gates                               96,000
Total            2,051,000



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Rp
Annual Operating Costs
7.   Harvesting and maintenance                    339,000
8.   Fish fry                                       140,000
9.   Fertilizer and insecticide                      70,000
10.   Miscellaneous                                   5,000
Total               554,000
F.   Shrimp Demonstration Pond
(5 ha)
Investment Costs
1.   Main channel and dykes                        750,000
2.   Perimeter and ditch                           675,000
3.   Nursery and transition ponds                   150,000
4.   Secondary dykes                               300,000
5.   Main gates                                      80,000
6.   Secondary gates                                96,000
Total             2,051,000
Annual Operating Costs
7.   Harvesting and maintenance                    489,000
8.   Milfish and shrimp fry                         375,000
9.   Fertilizer and insecticide                      70,000
10.   Miscellaneous                                   15,000
Total               949,000
G.   5T Ice Plant/15 Ton Ice Store
Investment Costs
1.   Generator and control gear                  2,800,000
2.   Ice plant                                   8,000,000
3.   Cold store                                  3,900,000
4.   Buildings                                    2,800,000
5.   Tubewell and water tank                     1,000,000
Total            18,500,000



ANNEX 5
Page 8
AnnWual Opegrating Costs
(1,500 tons ice production)
6.   Local staff                                   700,000
7.   General overhead                              200,000
8.   Insurance on plant                            200,000
9.  Generator running costs                       900,000
10.   Lubricants, amonia                            100,000
11.   Maintenance and repair                        200,000
12.   Labor                                        400,000
Total            2,700,000
November 5, 1973



ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter Ending                      Rp Million                 US$ Million
1974/75
September 30, 1974                       _                          _
December 31, 1974                     55.0                       0.1
March 31, 1975                       120.0                        0.3
June 30, 1975                        214.0                       0.5
1975/76
September 30, 1975                   378.0                        0.9
December 31, 1975                    598.0                        1.4
March 31, 1976                       876.0                        2.1
June 30, 1976                      1,205.0                        2.9
September 30, 1976                 1,424.0                        3.h
December 31, 1976                  1,643.0                        h.0
March 31, 1977                     1,862.0                        4.5
June 30, 1977                      2,174.0                        5.2
1977/78
September 30, 1977                 2,267.0                        5.5
December 31, 1977                  2,360.0                        5.7
March 31, 1978                     2,453.0                        5.9
June 30, 1978                      2,562.0                       6.2
1978/79
September 30, 1978                 2,590.0                        6.2
December 31, 1978                  2,617.0                        6.3
March 31, 1979                     2,64h.0                        6.4
June 30, 1979                      2,675.9                        6.5
April 18, 1974






ANNEX 7
Page 1
INqDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakiat Indonesia
General
1.        The Bank Rakjat Indonesia (BRI) is the principal source of
institutional credit for fisheries in Indonesia. However, its present
and projected operations in this field account for a small proportion of
its total operations. As on December 31, 1972, its total outstanding loans
amounted to Rp 73.4 billion, of which loans for fisheries accounted for
Rp 1.3 billion or less than 2% of the total.  If the proposed fisheries
project is sanctioned, it will add about Rp 3 billion to its outstanding
loans for fisheries over the next 5 to 6 years. As its other loans will
also grow, it is unlikely that the importance of fisheries in the
distribution of its loans will increase significantly as a result of the
project.
2.        BRI is one of five state-owned banks.  Though non agricultural
loans account for about one-half of its lending, BRI is assuming an
increasing role in the financing of agriculture, including fisheries, and
other rural economic activities.  Through a wide network of branch offices,
village and mobile units, BRI is able to provide an extensive coverage of
the country. It is through these units that most of their agricultural
lending, principally to smallholders is being channelled. BRI would be
the most suitable lending institution for the proposed project, and in
fact is the lending bank for three on-going IDA financed projects.1/
Historical Perspective
3.        BRI has a long history dating back to the end of the 19th century.
It functioned mainly as a commercial bank in earlier years, financing the
working capital requirements of middle sized entrepreneurs in trade and
industry, including those of village traders. In 1960 it became a
Government-owned bank for cooperatives, farmers, and fishermen. In 1965,
when all Government banks, including the central bank of the country, were
merged into one bank, namely, the Bank Negara Indonesia (BNI), BRI was
1/   (a)  Smallholder and Private Estate Tea Project, Report No. 124a-IND
(May 1973).
(b) Beef Cattle Development Project, Report No. PA-153a (November
1972).
(c)  North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project, Report No. PA-140a
(January 1973).



ANNEX 7
Page 2
designated as Unit II of the BNI. By Act No. 21 dated December 31, 1968,
however, the constituent units of the BNI were split up. The central bank
of the country was designate1 as the Bank Indonesia (BI) and the BNI Unit II
as the BRI. Financing of agriculture and allied activities, including
fisheries, as well as rural small-scale industries and trade, was to be
the main function of the bank. For historical reasons, however, the
financing of middle-sized entrepreneurs in trade and industry has continued
to account for a substantial proportion of its lending, notwithstanding
the fact that under the 1968 reorganization, the Bank Dagang Negara with
49 branches was designated as the commercial trade bank and the Bank Negara
Indonesia 1946 with 188 branches and 43 sub-branches as the industrial bank.
Results of Operations
4.        Summarized balance sheets and income and expenditure statements
of BRI for the last three years 1970-1972 are given in Tables 7-1 and 7-2.
The capital of the bank was Rp 300.4 million of which Rp 300 million was
contributed by the Government. The other sources of funds of the bank as
at the end of 1972 were: deposits Rp 61.2 billion, borrowing from Bank
Indonesia Rp 32.5 billion, other liabilities Rp 9.0 billion, and reserves
and retained earnings Rp 10.4 billion, making-a total of about Rp 113.4 bil-
lion.
5.        The deployment of BRI's resources during the same period showed
that loans accounted for Rp 73.4 billion, which were in excess of its
deposit resources, reflecting mainly the Government's policy of providing
funds to the bank through Bank Indonesia for specified purposes as, for
example, for the import of fertilizers (Rp 15.0 billion), for rice
production under the Bimas program (Rp 10.3 billion) and for investment
credit (Rp 6.5 billion). The rest of the resources of BRI were used
mainly for investments in securities (Rp 7.2 billion), deposits with the
Bank Indonesia and other banks (Rp 19 billion), and cash in hand (Rp 5.2
billion). Though BRI was required to maintain 30% of the deposits it
received in the form of liquid assets, the latter amounted to over Rp 31
billion as against the requirement of Rp 18 billion. BRI had therefore
excess liquidity.
Capital Base of BRI
6.        BRI recently proposed that the Government increase its capital
contribution from the present Rp 300 million to Rp 11 billion. However,
the Government is not likely to accede to the proposal in view of BRI's
already excess liquidity position and the Government's budgetary constraints.
Moreover, the Government has found it nore convenient to augment BRI's
resources through credits from the Bank Indonesia, particularly for
priority sectors, rather than through equity participation.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
7.        Because BRI's present capital and accumulated reserves would
be considered adequate in relation to the magnitude of its borrowings and
deposit liabilities, this may be another reason for the Government's
reluctance to increase its capital contributions as proposed by BRI.
Loans by Purpose
8.        The distribution of BRI's loans by purpose is given in Table 7-3.
The share of agriculture including livestock was about 45%, including some
2% for fisheries. Trade, service (mainly investment) credit, industry,
and other types of advances accounted for 24%, 17%, 9% and 5%, respectively.
9.        A breakdown of BRI's advances for fisheries at the end of
December 1971 is given below:
Amount                   % of Arrears
Purpose              Outstanding    Arrears    to Outstanding
----(Rp Millions)
1.   Inland Fisheries         488           138              28
2.   Marine Fisheries         201           109              54
3.   Processing                62            39              63
4.   Marketing                 51            51             100
5.   Salting                    11            6              55
6.   Export                    79            21              27
7.   Others                    13             3              23
Total          905          367              40
The most important single purpose of loans in the fisheries sector was
inland fisheries which included fresh water as well as salt water fish
ponds. Loan arrears for inland fisheries were lower than those in most
other fisheries activities. This illustrates the superior bankability of
fish pond farmers who can offer their ponds as security. In the case of
sea fisheries, the main security which the fishermen can offer is their
boats and gear. To facilitate loan recovery, it would be desirable to
institute some arrangement for crediting a part of the sale proceeds of
fish after each fishing trip towards loan repayment. BRI's operations in
the field of marketing/processing were small and not very successful as
judged from the large arrears. The recovery performance in respect of
credit for the export of fish was relatively better, as it mainly involved
interim accommodation against bills of lading, etc. until the receipt of
remittance from foreign buyers.
Profits
10.       BRI ended the year 1972 with a net profit of Rp 578 million,
which was small in relation to its working capital of Rp 113.4 billion at
the end of the year. The low level of profitability was attributable



ANNEX 7
Page 4
mainly to its excessive liquidity, high administrative costs, and a
relatively large volume of arrears.
Arrears
11.       The amount of loans under arrears as on December 31, 1972, was
shown to be Rp 21.4 billion, or 30% of total outstanding loans (Table 7-3).
Loans issued for the 1972 paddy crop (May-October) which had not fallen
due for repayment appear to have been included as overdue. The arrears
data reveal the following important features: in terms of amount, the
arrears were the largest under agriculture, but as stated above, there might
be some overestimation in the reported figures. More importantly, the
arrears under the Government sponsored Bimas program (largely confined to
paddy) amounting to Rp 5.7 billion out of a total outstanding loan amount
of Rp 13.3 billion, included a sum of about Rp 2.5 billion in respect of
loans issued prior to 1970-71, that is, prior to the present improved
Bimas program and the setting up of Village Units of BRI. It was understood
that the Government of Indonesia had agreed to assume full responsibility
for these old arrears. Thus, whereas under the Bimas program, the amount
of arrears was about 43% of the corresponding outstanding loan amounts
(Table 7-3) the loan recoveries under this program since 1971 has been
more encouraging as indicated below:
Year and Season in                   Amount of Loans      Percentage of
which Loans were      Amount of      Recovered at       Loans Recovered
issued under the        Loans           End of          to Total Loans
Bimas Program         Issued        April 1973             Issued
-----(Rp billion)----------
1971    (May-Oct.)       1.93              1.67                 87
1971-72 (Nov.-Apr.)      6.58              5.72                 87
1972    (May-Oct.)       2.10              1.48                 70
The decline in recoveries of the May-October 1972 crop loans was due to a
fairly widespread drought during that season, and BRI expects to make good
recoveries from the 1972-73 paddy season. Under the Bimas program prior
to 1970-71, only about 100,000 paddy growers were being financed each year
and the bulk of the amount advanced remained overdue, year after year.
This was because BRI had no effective machinery for loan appraisal, super-
vision and recovery under the old program, and depended largely upon the
village head or the Lura for this purpose. Since 1971, however, BRI
embarked upon a program of opening Village (or Desa) Units on a large
scale, staffed by its own employees, each Unit covering a group of
villages to give it a loan business large enough to render the Unit
economically viable. BRI had opened about 1400 Village Units by June, 1973,
and had reportedly provided credit from these Units to about 2 million
paddy growers during the 1972-73 season. Judged against the rapid expansion
in its loan business under the improved Bimas program, its recovery per-
formance would appear to be quite impressive, particularly as compared to



ANNEX 7
Page 5
that prior to the introduction of this improved program. Of the total
arrears of about Rp 21.4 billion as on December 31, 1972, about Rp 8.1 bil-
lion were classified as dubious loans, which are covered by reserves.
12.       BRI has recently received assistance from the Asian Development
Bank through a project to modernize and improve its operations, particularly
through its accounting and reporting systems. In November 1973, a FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program mission assisted BRI to prepare a rural credit project
for subsequent IDA financing. The project is expected to include provision
to strengthen BRI's capacity to extend credit to farmers, including a staff
training program. Immediate short-term technical assistance to BRI to
help in implementing the on-going IDA smallholder tea, rubber and beef cattle
projects is included in these projects. The tea project also provides funds
for internationally recruited consultants to recommend Improvements in BRI's
medium and long-term credit operations and to help implement these recom-
mendations.
Interest Rates
13.       BRI's schedule of its lending rates and rates paid by it on
deposits and borrowings is indicated below:



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Lending Rtates
Annual Rate
of Interest
Group   I.   A.  1) Bimas program for paddy              12
2) Import financed by PL 480,
excluding foodstuff               12
3) Imports of fertilizer and
insecticide                       12
B.  1) Other crops and Bimas program
for poultry                       15
2) Production for export               15
Group  II.        1) Production and distribution
of goods and services not
included in Group I               18
2) Building construction               18
3) Professional services               18
Group III.           Other Activities not included
in Groups I and II                  18-24
Rates Paid on Deposits and Borrowings
.Savings Deposit                                           9-15
Demand Deposit                                            3- 4.5
Time Deposit                                              6-15
Funds from Central Bank for:
-Bimas Program                                       4
-Rural Credits                                      12
-Import of Fertilizer                                6
-Investment                                          4
Funds from foreign banks for pre-export financing         8
Margin Earned on Interest Received and Paid
14.       During 1972, the average cost of funds to BRI was 6.17% per annum
whereas the average interest earned.by it on its loans, investments and
ba.nk balances was 10.17% per annum. BRI, therefore, earned an average
margin of 4%. Under the project, the margin earned by BRI would be 7.1%,
considering that the margin earned on IDA funds would be 8% per annum (12%
less 4%) and that on its own resources 5.83% per annum (12X less 6.17%) and
that the ratio between IDA funds and its own resources would be 49:51. As



ANNEX 7
Page 7
BRI has been working at a profit on an overall margin of 4X, the margin
available to it under the project would be adequate to meet its operating
costs, particularly as it would get the support of the extension staff in
processing the loan applications from fish pond farmers.
Collateral
15.       BRI usually issues loans up to 70% of the value of collateral.
However, its policy in this regard has been flexible. Depending upon the
standing of the party, or whether the loan was for an activity covered by
one of the priority sectors, etc., the margin requirements in relation to
collateral have been varied. Under the project, BRI will have to finance
up to 85% of the value of collateral (95% in the case of lift or beach seine
nets), as the borrowers' equity would generally be limited to 15% of the cost of
investment and they would not be in a position to provide any collateral
other than the investments made under the project, excepting the fish pond
borrowers whose ponds would be more than adequate security for their loans.
Maintenance of Accounts
16.       Though BRI's branches, regional offices, and head office maintain
proper accounts of their transactions, the present reporting system is slow
and the accounting system does not provide adequate management information
necessary for decision-making. However, measures are underway to improve
the operations of BRI, including its accounting and reporting systems
(para 12). BRI's accounts are audited by Bank Indonesia, and the audit
is satisfactory.
Management and Organization
17.       The Board of Managing Directors of BRI comprise four members,
including the President. One of the Managing Directors is in charge of
lending operations for agriculture, including fisheries.
18.       BRI has seven operational and six administrative bureaus.
There are four credit bureaus under one of which is a Fisheries Department.
This Department is a relatively small one, comprising its head, three
officers and other clerical staff. The appointment of a fisheries expert
to this Department, particularly to liaise with the technical staff of the
Directorate General of Fisheries and PNM has been recommended under the
project. An organizational chart of BRI's head office is given in
Table 7-4.
19.       BRI has 13 regional offices, 219 branches, 77 sub-branches,
509 mobile units and about 1,400 village units. The regional offices
exercise control over branches in their jurisdication and arrange for
the remittance of funds to and from branches according to need. An
organizational chart of BRI's regional office is given in Table 7-5.
The branches of BRI are the main instruments for the collection of



ANNEX 7
Page 8
deposits and lending of funds. The sub-branches and the mobile units
are primarily extensions of the branches for the collection of dues and
disbursement of loans. They do not collect deposits or sanction loans.
The recently opened village units, however, are authorized to sanction
loans.
20.       As the village units were opened mainly with a view to
financing cultivators under the Bimas scheme for increasing the production
of paddy, these units were authorized to sanction loans up to Rp 100,000
per borrower under this scheme. The branches were authorized to sanction
loans up to Rp 1 million and regional offices up to Rp 5 million. Loans
above Rp 5 million have to be sent to the head office for sanction.
21.       The total staff of BRI at the end of 1970 was about 10,000.
As a result of the opening of a large number of village units (each having
5 to 6 employees) and the general expansion in staff, the total staff would
be about 20,000 at present, with some 1,500 at BRI's head office.
December 12, 1973



ANN2X 7
Table 7-1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREIIT PROJECT
Bark Rakjat Indonesia
Summarized Palance Sheets
At December 31 Each Year
1970        1971         1972
----  Rp billion------
Current Assets
Cash on hand                             !8T         4.02         5.21
Canks (deposits and loans)               7.h9        7.56        18.97
Govt. and other Secu&ties                4.03        6.01         7.17
RflPpivables                             2.48         4.98        2.841
Total                                18.41        22.57        34.19
OrtstardinE, Loans                       48.891/    58.941/    73.38
Pixed and Other Assets                    2.148        4.36        5.83
Total Assets                         69.78        85.87
TTARTIT.TIES
Cuirrent Liabilities
A^e,otnts npyabie                       4.414        5.09         5.77
Demand deposits                         24.29       2b..02      40.99
Total                                 28.73       29.11        46.76
Fixed DeLosit   and Savings               6.23        13.16       20.22
Pank Tndonesia Borrowings                31.81        36.37       32.52
Ca r i. +.-al I2-Y/                                     - 2/0.30
P,serPTes and Retained Earnings           1.75         5.97       1Q.38
Other Liabilities                         L.26         1.26        3.22
Total liabilities                     69.78       85.87       113.40
1/ Less provisions for doubtNul debts.
9/ 1DT's lauthorized capital of Rs 300 million not paid in.
So.r"¢. rlT



ANNE 7
Table 7-2
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Bank RakJat Indonesia
Summarized Income and Expenditure Statements
1970       1971          1972
-----Rp million------
Income
Loan interest, provisions and
other charges                           8,373      10,614        11,904
Other income                                269        258           529
Total Income                         8,642      10,872       12.433
Expenditures
Interest on borrowings and
deposits                                3,675       4,910        6,136
Salaries and other personnel
expenditures                            2,767       3,430        3,781
Administrative and general
charges                                 1,235       1,694        1,849
Other expenses                               69         29            89
Total Expenditures                   7,746      10.063       11,855
Earned Surplus After Provisions
for Bad Debts and Depreciation               53         268          578
Source: BRI.



ANNEX 7
Table 7-3
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Bank RakJat Indonesia
Outstanding Loans and Arrears by Economic
Sectors As at tie End of 1972
Arrears
F.ronomic Sector      OutstandingrLoans          Amount      % of Outstanding Loans
7R  illion)            (Rp billion)
Agriculture : l.Bimas     13.255                   5.687              43
2.Others    17.725                   3.176              18
Total         30.980                   8.863              29
Li-vestock                   557                     179              32
Fisheries                  1.263                     h68              37
Industry                   7.006                   3.555              51
Trade                     17.426                   5.006              29
Service                   12.470                   3.036              2h
Other Economie
Activities                 3.682                     280               8
Total         73.384                 21.387               29



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Organisational Chart of the Head Office of the
Bank RakJat Indonesia
C---   !                 t          |                                                        | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Caonultative Body of|
Inspectors I                                                     Staff |LeAdethip/Hployee|
Liquidity                    =_                  Invest-                             Adminis-    Research    Control
and Funds       Credit    BIMAS      General      Mont       Foreign      Opera-    tration          and       (Supervi-    Person-    General         Secretarial
Mobilisa-       Bureau    Bureau    Credit       Credit      (Affairs)    tional       and        Statis-         sory)        nel       (Affairs)        Bureau
tion =I                            Bureau      Bureau       Bureau      Bureau      B oou                     Bureau       Bure u       Bureau
Bureau  l i i i  l   i     i    i                    I I   ~~~~~~~~~~Bokeein  Bureauureu                            Br1
BurJ u                                                                          kL 1pingBureau
Provincial or
Reglonal Offices
Branch Offices
I'1



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Organizational Chart of the Provincial or
Regional Offices of the Bank Rakiat Indonesia
Manager |          -      
|Secretary|
|Loan Dept,|                               Financial Dept.|                          Service Dept. |Control and Veri-|
at.                                       E4lDeP| fication Dt
Research       Credit          Accounting      Administration      Liquidities                                          Verificatio        Report
*nd           andnd and                                                                              Logistics           Section         Section
Statistics      Reports           kkee              Reports        E   Funds_X_L
Education     Adm./Report
dministration   Secretary
Report~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J%
Lfl-






ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
PN State Fisheries Enterprise, Maluku (PNM)
General
1.        Established in March 1961, PNM is one of six State Fisheries
Enterprises set up within the Directorate General of Fisheries (DGF) by
the Government to carry out some of its fisheries projects. Though major
decisions and policy matters rest with DGF, including the appointment of
PNM's board of management and assumption of responsibility of its financial
condition, this has not hampered PNM's progress which is the result of
competent management and autonomy in operations. Between 1961 and 1967,
PNM provided slipway, workshop and sawmill facilities to service privately
owned vessels and a passenger vessel service. In 1967, DGF provided PNM
with 5 fishing vessels mainly for skipjack fishing to supply the local
market. From 1968, PNM has been working at a profit.
Financial Position
2.        The balance sheets and income and expenditure statements of
PNM for the years 1970, 1971 and 1972 are given in Tables 8-1 and 8-2.
The resources of PNM and their deployment at the end of 1972 were as
follows:
Resources (Rp '000)                       Deployment (Rp '000)
Capital                   12,329          Vessels                     1,800
Accumulated Profits       15,332          Vehicles                       300
Profits for 1972           4,810          Land                         2,500
Depreciation Reserve       2,996          Building and Office        23,750
Loan from Bapindo          7,683          Furniture/Fixture              736
Inventories                 8,552
Cash and Bank Balances      4,330
43,150                                     41,968
The difference between the resources and their deployment represented mainly
the amount receivable by PNM from traders on account of sale of skipjack.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
3.        The income, expenditure and profits of PNM during 1972 were as
follows:
Expenditure (Rp '000)                            Income (Rp '000)
Workshop                    9,496         Sale of skipjack plus
Vessels (skipjack)         9,611             revenue from passenger
Vessel (passenger boat)   1,076             boat                           26,791
Overhead                   6,829          Workshop                         5,182
Slipway                      451          Slipway                             251
Profit                     4,810          Miscellaneous                        49
Total           32,273                           Total          32,273
The main source of income of PNM was from the sale of skipjack, though a
breakdown of income from this source and from the passenger boat was not
available.
4.        PNM earned some income from its workshop and slipway for the
first time in 1972. However, the expenditure on workshop and slipway had
not been allocated according to the work done on PNM's own vessels and
that done on other vessels. PNM earned a net profit of Rp 4.8 million
during 1972, as compared to Rp 3.5 million in 1971 and Rp 3.3 million in
1970.
5.        The growth of PNM over the three years ending 1972, as reflected
in its balance sheets, comprised mainly the acquisition of land, construction
of an office building and a jetty, and improvements to its slipway and
workshop.  The value of these fixed assets increased from an estimated
Rp 7.9 million in 1970 to Rp 26.2 million in 1972. PNM financed the
expansion from its accumulated profits and reserves, a loan of Rp 12 million
from the Indonesian Development Bank (Bapindo), and an increase to its
capital of Rp 2.5 million (from Rp 9.8 million in 1970 and 1971 to
Rp 12.3 million in 1972). The loan from Bapindo was due to be repaid by
the end of 1972 but PNM had asked for an extension up to the end of 1976.
The main reason for seeking an extension was that PNM required funds for
meeting its working capital expenditure. It had, however, not arranged for
a separate line of credit for this purpose, and hence was using the invest-
ment loan taken from Bapindo to meet its working capital requirement. PNM
was also building a 5-ton cool room, for the purpose of preserving skipjack
for sale in the local market.
6.        PNM's accounts were maintained in a very rudimentary way and
did not permit an evaluation of the cost/benefits of its different activi-
ties. As these activities would grow in volume and diversity under the
project, the appointment of a qualified accountant in PNM, has been
recommended.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Organization and Management
7.        PNM has a three-member Board of Directors, including the
Executive Director. Though only the Executive Director was in position
at the time of the mission's visit, he has managed PNM's operations com-
petently. PNM has separate departments or sections for fisheries,
passenger boat, workshop and slipway, sawmill, navigation, cool room and
administration. The total staff employed was 71, including the Executive
Director. An organization chart of PNM, with details of staff employed
in each section, is given in Table 8-3.
8.        PNM has succeeded in establishing itself in skipjack fishing
and marketing and has acquired valuable experience as well as expertise in
this type of fisheries. However, the volume of its operations has been
small compared to that envisaged under the proposed project. PNM will
therefore need strengthening, including an expansion in its staff, recruit-
ment of expatriate technical and management experts and an increase in its
equity capital, for the purpose of the project. With the necessary strength-
ening, PNM will be a suitable agency for the development of skipjack fishing
for export based on Ambon, through the provision of additional fishing and
carrier vessels, on-shore cold store and other supporting facilities.
Details on the proposed project to be implemented by PNM are given in
Annex 3.
November 16, 1973






ANNEX 8
Table 8-1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
PN State Fisheries Enterprise, Ambon (PNM)
Balance Sheets at December 31 Each Year
1970      1971        1972
-Rp thousand-
ASSETS
1. Cash-                                        1,016        5'15       1,934
2.  Bank Balances                                  869       147        2,396
3.  Accounts Receivable                         7,389      5,673       12,192
4. Work in Process                               7,850    10,693       (       a/
5. Mechanical Workshop and Saw Mill             7,906      9,811      (29,086
6.  Inventory                                    7,488     8,013        8,552
7.  Other Assets                                4,514      2,721           808
37,032    37.573        54,968
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
1.  Accounts Payable                               36      1,813        6,956
2. Loan from Indonesia Development Bank
(Bapindo)                                12,000     7,683         7,683
3. Depreciation                                   780      1,848        2,996
4. Other Liabilities                            2,586      1,053        4,862
5. Capital                                      9,845      9,845       12,329
6. Accumulated Profits                         11,785    15,331        20,142
37,032    37,573       54,968
Source: PNM.
a/ Includes mainly buildings (office, workshops), land, vessels and vehicles.



ANNER 8
Table 8-2
IN ESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
PK State Fisheries Enterprise, Ambon (PNN)
Income and Expenditure Statements
1970         1971           97
-----Rp thouand --------
Income
Sale of skipjack and revenue
from passenger boat                    13,027        14,026        26,791
Workshop                                                             5,182
Other income                                                           300
13,027       14.026        32.273
Operating Expenditures
Workshop                                 5,296         7,279         9,496
Vessels                                    639           734        10,687
Administration and overhead costs        3.801         2h42          7,280
,9736.      MAN           27,463
Profit                                   323,54                      4,810
Source: PNH.



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
PN State Fisheries Enterprise1 Ambon (PNM)
Organization Chart
Chief Executive Director
|  Directo  for Finnce and dminiotrtion |             |Director fcor Operation|
Passenger Vessel
General Amsonnistretion           Sales Administration           Slpway and Workshop              1 skipper
and Accounting                   Section                                                         2      assistant skipper
.                               1 supervisor  1 supervisor          1 engineer
1 supervisor  2 assistant           1 adm.{nistrator          6 workers       9 labour           2 assistant engineer
. Fish Vesse1
Personnel Sectrion        Administration                               sawmill
_                                         _            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cool Room
1 surpervisor    _       1 supervisor                          I  supervisor
2saerisor                1 assistant                           t8 labour                    1 engineer
t i                                                       1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ processor
1 worker
Passenger                             Fsh Vessel
Technical Administration           Administration                                                                           x
Section (1^.torkshop-Sawmill)                                       5 skipper  
1 supervisor                  5 engineer A
!  1 supervisor                   I  assistant                   5 assistant engineer                                  aC
1 assistantl






ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Directorate General of Fisheries
1.        The Directorate General of Fisheries (DGF) is the agency respon-
sible for the administration of fisheries in Indonesia. Although its head
office is located in Jakarta, most of its staff and offices are found at
the provincial, district and sub-district levels. As indicated in Table 9-1,
it is one of five Directorate Generals located within the Ministry of
Agriculture. Table 9-2 contains an organizational chart of the Directorate
General of Fisheries at its head office. Of particular importance to the
proposed project is the Directorate of Fisheries Enterprise Development. It
has responsibility for State Fisheries Enterprises and thus supervises the
State Fisheries Enterprise, Maluku at Ambon (PNM). It also has responsibil-
ity for technical advice to fishermen's cooperatives, and therefore assists
the skipjack cooperatives at Ambon and the cooperatives that might operate
the proposed ice plants and trawlers.
2.        The annual budget of DGF for 1973-74 is Rp 293.7 million for
routine expenditures and Rp 890.9 million for development expenditures (see
Table 9-3). Approximately Rp 180 million of this routine budget is allocated
to the various research and training institutes established by DGF. These
include the Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Riau; the Fishing Craft
Institute, Jakarta; the Fisheries Technology Institute, Jakarta; the Inland
Fisheries Research Institutes at Jakarta, Surabaya, Palembang and Makasar;
the Academy of Fisheries, Jakarta; the Senior Inland Fisheries High School,
Bogor; the Senior Marine Fisheries High Schools at Tegal and Menado; the
Junior Marine Fisheries High Schools and training centers at Singaraja,
Ambon and Belawan and the Fisheries Training Center, Sukabumi (Tables 9-3
and 9-4). Training at the three junior high schools relates primarily to
trawler operations, at the senior high school at Bogor to inland fisheries,
and at the remaining two senior high schools to marine fisheries. Of
particular significance is the fisheries training center established at
Tegal with UNDP/FAO assistance to provide practical training in fishing
techniques, fishing gear assembling, net making and mending and navigation.
Similar centers are planned by DGF for other parts of Indonesia. In
addition, a number of fellowships and training programs have been instituted
under UNDP funding. Finally, Indonesian fishermen are now being trained
on many of the 70 foreign fishing vessels operating under joint venture
agreement.
3.        The research institutes are dealing, respectively, with marine
resources research, fishing equipment technology, fish processing tech-
nology and inland fisheries research. However, the impact of this research



ANNEX 9
Page 2
on fisheries development in Indonesia has thus far been negligible. Under
UNDP/FAO auspices, research on brackish water shrimp and milkfish culture
is now also underway (Annex 2, para 19-20). The collection of statistical
data, which falls primarily under the responsibility of DGF, is extremely
deficient and requires substantial improvement.
4.        Fisheries administration at the provincial level falls under the
direction of the Provincial Fisheries Services (PFS). Typically, the PFS
is organized at its head office into sections on planning, education and
research, technical and administration. The PFS in Central Java, for
example, has a total staff of 188, of whom 15 are in the planning section,
61 in the education and research section, 32 in the technical section and
74 in the administration section. Table 9-5 provides an organizational
chart of this office and indicates the specific responsibilities of its
personnel.
5.        The PFS interacts most directly with both marine and inland
fishermen through the extension services provided by its district and sub-
district offices. These offices are widely scattered throughout each pro-
vince; for example, 24 district offices can be found in the province of
West Java. The offices of the District Fisheries Services are typically
manned by a staff of about 25, of whom 18-20 are extension officers. These
extension workers provide the direct and regular contact with the local
fishermen. They also act as the principal channel through which improved
methods can be passed on to the fishermen.
November 16, 1973



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Fisheries Organization and Administration
Ministry of Agriculture
Minister of Agriculture
Secretary
General
General Bureau
Bureau of Organization and Methods
Bureau of Personnel
Bureau of Finance
Bureau of Materials
Bureau of Law
Bureau of Planning
Bureau of Economic and Foreign Relations
Directorate of        Directorate of       Directorate of      Directorate of     Directorate of         Inspector
Agriculture           Fisheries             Veterinary         Forestry           Estates                General
Services



INDON1B3IA
FISHEIW, CREDIT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHiART OF THE DA UVo,RA--GCENFRAL O' FISHERIES
DIRECTOR-4ENERAL
OF FISHERIES
I  Personnel Division     _              .           Director of                     Director of               Director gf Fisheries                 Director of                      Directu.r of
Planning -                    Production                Enterprise Development               Extension Work                      Resourcs
F  tadii .tion.
|   Divieion      _,"*                    Statistics Divisiom             Fishing Technique Division  Enterpriso Development               Fich  InCormation                Reoource Mwagement
Division                        Division                         Division
Plan/Progrsmme                                                                                                                    Water Pollution
Finance Division                                Prccessing Division             Fish Culture Division           Oredit Scheme Division           Extension Work Division          Prevention t.iviaion
Infrastructure                                                  Enterprise Analysis and         Education er-d Training           Cor.-',rvat on Facilities
Legal anid Or&anisa-                            Planrin:q Divis.on              Fish Marketing Division         Legialation Division             Diviojon                         Mnr.anement Divitsion
tin    ivso    -  F                                                                                                                                           -                               _   .
Programme Evaluation            Fish Proceesinp                 Fisheries Cooperatives
Division                       Techniology Div:sion             Division                        Secretariat                      Secretariat
Foreign Relation
Divieoion           -X          
.enretariat                    Secretariat                      Secretariat
Documentation and|
Public Relation Division                                                                                                                                                                                     >:-3
1 1    SI'X'Il.'-IS I i I                                                                                                                           (D >s;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
P.l. '!f .l:lzl l                                                                                                                         X~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 9
Table 9-3
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
1973-74 Budget: Directorate General of Fisheries
Routine Budget                                                 R
I. Office of Directorate General of Fisheries
(salaries, equipment, maintenance, travel)          1134,h40,800
II. Research and training institutions
A. Jakarta:
Office of Inland Fisheries Research                 65,482,800
Institute, Office of Fishing Craft
Institute, Office of Fisheries Technology
Institute, Academy of Fisheries
B. West Java:
Bogor Senior Inland Fisheries High School,          45,182,400
Sukabumi Fisheries Training Center, Bogor
Office of Inland Fisheries Research
Institute
C. Central Java:
Tegal Senior M4arine Fisheries High School,         26,920,100
Office of Fisheries Research Institute
D. East Java:
Surabaya office of Inland Fisheries
Research Institute                                   2,482,000
E. South Sumatra:
Palembang office of Inland Fisheries
Research Institute                                   2,529,500
F. Riau:
Tanjong Pinrang office of Marine Fisheries
Resear$h Institute                                   2,311,000
G. North Sumatra:
Belawan Fisheries Training Center                    7,079,000



ANNEX 9
Table 9-3
Rou  ne Budget
H. North Sulawesi:
Menado Senior Marine Fisheries High School           8,171,000
I. South Sulawesi:
Makasar office of Inland Fisheries Research
Institute                                            2,933,000
J. Maluku:
Ambon Junior Marine Fisheries High School            9,036,000
K. Bali:
Singaraja Junior Marine Fisheries High School        8,160,000
180,286,800
Total         293,727,600
Development Budget
Fisheries Infrastructure                    89,799,000
Research                                  259,463,000
Extension work                              95,000,000
Planning                                    52,350,000
Education                                 244,300,000
Physical Infrastructure                     50,000,000
790,912,000
Equity capital for Benoa State
Fisheries Enterprise                   100,000,000
Total       890,912,000



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
TRAINING INSTITUTIONS OPERA,TED BY THE DIRECTORATE
GENERAL OF FISHERILJS
No.   Name of Institu-tion            Location      Duration of Study   Established  Academic       Ultimate        Number of
Level        Application    Graduates
1.   Fisheries Academy            Jakarta           3 years                  1962     University   Government;         278
Private Enter- (Fishing
prise; State    Technique
Enterprise       - 184;
Technology
- 94).
2.   Fisheries Senior High        Tegal, Central    3 years; 2-6 months*   1950        High School  Government;      263;142*
School*                      Java                                                             Private
Enterprise
3.   Fisheries Senior High        Menado, North     3 years                  1958      High School  Government;
School                       Sulawesi                                                         Private
Enterprise     181
4.   Fisheries Senior High        Bogor, West       4 years                  1968      High School  Government      204
School                      Java
5.   Junior Fisheries High        Singaraja, Bali   3 years; 3 months*       1962      Pre-High     Government;
School*                                                                           School      Private         166; 27*
Enterprise
6.   Junior Fisheries THigh       Belawan , North
School*                      Sumatra          3 years; 3 inonths*-     1962      Pre-Hligh    Government;    78; 19*
School      Private
Enterprise
7.   Junior Fisheries High        Ambon, Maluku      3 years; 3 months*       1958     Pre-High      Government;    204 h       3
School*                                                                           School      Private
Enterprise                 ( 
Note
* Refers to separate short-term training component offered by some of the above institutions.






TNDONFSIA
FISHERIES CR-DTT PROJECT
Provincia2 Fisheries Serviee  Central Java
Director
Secretaries                      2
Public Relations                 3
Coordinator of District
Fisheries Services               1
I                            I   I                          .
Administration                 Plannine                           Technical               Education and Research
i) Head                   1    i) Head                  1        i) Inland Fisheries 8   i) Head                     1
ii) Financing Section   1   ii) Statistics and                 ii) Marine Fisheries 9  ii) Education                19
Docxumentation        8
iii) Personnel Section    12  iii) Physical and                iii)  Marketing          4 iii) Docks and Slipways   13
Financial             3
iv) Law and Regulation    3   iv) Project Evaluation   3       iv)  Processing         3  iv) Marine Fisheries       17
v) Office Management    4 4                                     v)  Cooperatives      8   v) Inland Fisheries       11
714                           15                           32                             61
\10\






ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Personnel
Introduction
1.        Technical assistance would be required to assure the effective
implementation of the project. Seven experts would be provided for a
total of 17 man years. These experts would comprise:
(a) a management specialist to advise the Executive Director of
the PN State Fisheries Enterprise at Ambon (PNM) on the
planning, organization, and operation of the skipjack sub-
project. He would also supervise and coordinate the work
of the project engineers and naval architect, and initiate
the training of local personnel. His services would be
needed for 4 years;
(b) an electrical/mechanical engineer, responsible for the
planning, design, and construction supervision of the ice
making, freezing, and cold storage complex and the small
ice plants. His services would be required for 3 years;
(c) a civil engineer responsible for the planning, design and
construction supervision of project civil engineering and
building works. His services would be required for a year;
(d) a naval architect/master boat builder responsible for the
planning, design, and construction supervision of all project
vessels and, in collaboration with the two project engineers,
of the additional repair facilities needed under the skip-
jack project. His services would be required for 3 years;
and
(e) three fisheries specialists for fish pond development res-
ponsible for development of the demonstration ponds, train-
ing of the required fisheries extension officers and, assis-
tance to pond operators in carrying out the necessary pond
improvements. Each specialist would be required for 2 years.



AIOEX 10
Page 2
Specific Responsibilities
2.        The management specialist would:
(a) be responsible to the Executive Director of the PNM in an
advisory rather than executive capacity;
(b) establish general requirements for the project, including
type, number and size of fishing vessels and fishing gear,
the siting and requirements of the landing facilities, the
capacity and operational layout of the ice plant/freezer/
cold store complex and of the repair shop and the methods
of fish handling;
(c) establish a suitable organizational structure for the PNM
and train personnel for the various functions required.
Arrangements for sepcialized courses would be included
where necessary. In addition, special attention would be
given to the training of fishermen in the use of ice;
(d) establish suitable policies and procedures for all activi-
ties of the PNM, particularly in operations, marketing and
accounting;
(e) advise the fisheries cooperatives involved on all relevant
policies and procedures relating to the project and provide
for a satisfactory working relationship and proper channel
of communication between the PNM and the cooperatives; and
(f)  coordinate and supervise the work of the civil engineer,
the electrical/mechanical engineer, and the naval architect/
master boat builder.
3.        The civil engineer, the electrical/mechanical engineer, and the
naval architect/master boat builder would each advise on his individual
expertise. Specifically, the civil engineer would provide the necessary
expertise relating to the construction of the letties, and the additional
slipway. He would also be responsible for the foundation, building and
other civil works associated with the main cold store complex and workshop
at Ambon, and the small ice plants. The electrical/mechanical engineer
would provide the relevant expertise required for the cold store complex
and the small ice plants, and the naval architect/master boat builder,
expertise for the twenty skipjack vessels, the two carrier vessels and the
twenty-five trawlers.
4.        Each of the three experts would be responsible for a number of
common functions as they apply to his area of concern, including:
(a) planning and design of required facilities;



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(b) preparation of specifications, drawings and bills of quantity,
and advice on appropriate contract conditions to enable com-
petitive quotations to be obtained;
(c) assessment of quotations and advice on terms of acceptance
including negotiation of any modifications necessary;
(d) arrangement of procurement procedures;
(e) supervision of construction;
(f) guidance in the operation, repair and maintenance of the
facilities concerned; and
(g) training of appropriate Indonesian counterparts.
5.        The three pond fisheries specialists would:
(a) be responsible to the Directorate General of Fisheries;
(b) each assume responsibility for the improvement of project
ponds in South Sulawesi, East Jalva, and Central and West
Java respectively;
(c) select areas which would benefit most from the proposed
improvements and arrange, as far as possible, for these
areas to be developed first;
(d) assess the salt and fresh water supply flows in the project
areas and determine improvements to channels and sluice gates
to enable better water control to be achieved;
(e) examine the size and layout of the existing dykes, platforms
and ditches in fish ponds and determine the improvements
that should be made to give a better relationship between
areas of nursery ponds, transition ponds and rearing ponds
to enable higher yields to be achieved;
(f) study the soil composition in the pond bottoms with partic-
ular reference to the proportion and nature of the organic
matter in it, and determine the type and quantity of fer-
tilizer and pesticide that should be applied to create
better conditions for the growth of benthic algae, and the
timing and method of application of the fertilizer and pes-
ticides;
(g) designate the type of culture to be practiced in the indi-
vidual ponds (i.e. milkfish or shrimp), the density of



ANNEX 10
Page 4
stocking and the timing of the release of the fingerlings
into the transition and rearing ponds;
(h) study the existing harvesting and marketing arrangements
and recommend improvements, including selecting suitable
sites for the location of small ice plants where the
provision of an increased supply of ice would materially
improve the quality of the fish to the consumer;
(i) select suitable sites for the establishment of demonstra-
tion ponds; design dykes, channels and gate layouts for
them and arrange for their construction;
(j) prepare and execute a program to train the 95 extension
personnel required to supervise the demonstration ponds and
to provide the extension services for project pond improve-
ments;
(k) study the feasibility of increasing yields significantly
higher than that envisaged for project ponds through heavy
investment in infrastructure to permit more exact salinity
control, and use of intensive farming methods; and
(1) examine the possible adverse effects upon fish pond produc-
tion of upstream agricultural practices and recommend
possible remedial or preventive actions.
Qualifications
6.        The management specialist would be a graduate from a recognized
university or technical college, with at least 10 years experience in a
fishing company, and not less than 2 years practical experience, in a
senior managerial capacity, in skipjack operations, including fishing,
handling and export marketing.
7.        The civil engineer would be a graduate in civil engineering from
a recognized university or technical college, possessing not less than
eight years experience in the planning and design of civil engineering
works, of which not less than two years shall have been spent on the
design of port and harbor works. He would also have had at least two
years experience on civil works in a tropical country. In addit~ion, he
would have adequate experience in building construction and foundation,
surveys and soils investigation, water supply, minor site works, and
construction in timber.
8.        The electrical/mechanical engineer would be a graduate in mech-
anical and/or electrical engineering from a recognized university or tech-
nical college, possessing at least ten years experience in design and super-
vision of construction of heavy mechanical and electrical installations of



ANNEX 10
Page 5
which not less than one year shall have been spent on refrigeration mach-
inery, ice plants and cold stores, including preparing designs and tender
doe~uments in a tropical developing country, approving working drawings and
admdnistering contracts, and supervising building construction and installa-
tion of equipment.
9.        The naval architect/master ship builder would be a graduate in
naval architecture of a recognized university or technical college, possess-
ing not less than ten years practical experience in boat construction,
including not less than two years in:
(a) small wooden boat construction;
(b) fishing boat construction and supervision in tropical coun-
tries; and
(c) preparing documents to enable tenders to be invited for boat
construction.
10.       The pond fisheries experts would be graduates from a recognized
university or technical college in marine biology, fisheries, or an asso-
ciated discipline, possessing not less than seven years practical experience
in aquaculture, preferably under tropical conditions.
11.       All experts would be fluent in English and would preferably have
a working knowledge of Indonesian.
November 16, 1973






ANNEX 1 1
Page  1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Marketing and Prices
Introduction
1.        Total fish production in Indonesia was estimated at 1,268,000 tons
in 1972, of which approximately 839,000 tons, or 66%, were marine fish,
289,000 tons, or 23%, were inland fish and 140,000 tons, or 11%, were
cultured fish. About 3% of total production was exported, including shrimp
valued at some $22 million. In addition, small amounts of a wide range of
fisheries, including dried fish, frozen fish fillets, sea weeds and shell-
fish, were exported. Though fish is the maLn source of protein for the
Indonesians, annual consumption is low, at approximately 10 kg per capita.
The separation of principal producing areas from the main consuming centers
poses a major marketing problem because of poor transportation and handling
facilities.  Sumatra, comprising 17Z and Sulawesi 7% of the total population,
accounted for about 45% and 18% respectively of marine fisheries production,
while Java with approximately 64Z of the total population and 30% of domestic
fish consumption, is responsible for only 16% of the marine catch (20% of
total fish production). Kalimantan accounted for about 58% and Sumatra 24%
of the fish catch from inland rivers and lakes. Java produced about 73%
and South Sulawesi about 12% of the fish reared in ponds.
2.        Fish is processed for the domestic market under a variety of
methods - dried, salted, smoked, cooked, canned or frozen.  The highest
percentage is sold as heavily salted dried fish shipped from the producing
areas in covers of straw and leaves. For example, cargo boats that take
miscellaneous merchandise to the various islands of the Indonesian archi-
pelago often carry dried and salted fish as-return cargo. However, in
spite of the loss of weight and the additional cost of salt, the producer
receives little or no more per kilo for salted fish than for fresh fish.
Dried fish is transported inland with other dry cargo, as is canned and
smoked fish. It is sold with other food and household goods in markets
and local stores, and is thereby assured a wide distribution. Smoked fish
is often sold by the same retailers that sell dried fish, but always in
small quantities.
3.        Consumer surveys indicate that consumption of fresh fish in Java
would greatly increase if more were available and are of good quality.
However, the transport of fresh fish preserved in ice is costly because
of inadequate suitable transportation facilities, which together with the
lack and often misuse of ice, results in a significant proportion of the
fish being spoiled by the time they reach the inland markets. Consequently,
these markets usually have small amounts of good quality fresh fish on sale



ANNEX 11
Page 2
at relatively high prices. In contrast, at the coastal markets and villages,
fresh fish is regularly sold and consumed. Local fishermen's cooperatives
usually conduct the auction sales of fish.
4.        Fish is also marketed alive or frozen.  In addition to local sales,
live fish is also sold principally in Jakarta and Bandung. The principal
marketing problem is the lack of adequate transportation from the producing
areas to the consuming centers. Frozen fish including shrimp and lobsters
is sold in several supermarkets in Surabaya, Bandung, and Jakarta. Prices
are generally 50 to 100% more than those bought fresh in the public market,
and the consumers are usually foreigners.
5.        Fisheries exports have been increasing during recent years (see
Table 11-1). In 1967 the export of frozen shrimp was only 82 tons; in 1972
it was about 22,000 tons. The export of frozen tuna in 1967 was 1,119 tons;
in 1971 it was 3,500 tons. Other fish products preserved by drying, canning
and smoking have also been exported in increasing volume. About 32,000 tons
of fish products valued at US$26 million were exported in 1972. The marketing
of the most important exports - frozen shrimp and tuna - is largely handled
by foreigners who are partners in locally-based processing operations with
Indonesian nationals.
Shrimp and Milkfish
6.        Approximately 6,000 tons of shrimp and 22,000 tons of milkfish
were produced in ponds in Java and South Sulawesi in 1971. The principal
urban consuming areas are Makasar (South Sulawesi), Surabaya (East Java),
and Bandung (West Java). Present retail prices for milkfish range from
Rp 200-300 per kg, and for small pond shrimp Rp 150-200 per kg. Table 11-2
shows the current prices received by pond operators for milkfish and shrimp.
7.        The marketing system typically consists of the subcollectors,
and main collectors in the producing areas and the wholesalers, brokers
and retailers in the consuming centers. The average amounts of milkfish
handled daily by each of them are small, ranging from 20-30 kg for the
subcollector and retailer to 50-70 kg for the main collector and broker,
and about 100 kg for the wholesaler. Current prices for milkfish average
about Rp 150 kg to pond operators and Rp 250 kg to consumers. Credit is
often provided by the main collector to the pond operator and by the broker
to the retailer.
Catch from Trawlers
8.        Fish would comprise about 95% and shrimp the remaining 5% of the
catch by trawlers. The fish would be classified into first, second, and
third grades. The first grade is table fish, including pomfret, croaker,
sole, snapper and others, which is packed in ice after it is caught, and is
sold fresh for about 65 Rp per kg. The second grade fish, which constitutes
the bulk of the catch, is salted on board and sold for approximately 45 Rp
per kg. The third grade fish is generally considered inedible and is sold
for fish meal. The composition of the catch varies according to the season.



ANNEX 1_
Page 3
Shrimp for Export
9.        Host exportable shrimp is currently purchased by and processed in
local plants and subsequently exported as frozen shrimp to Japan. Indonesia
is the second largest supplier of shrimp to Japan, after India. Table 11-1
shows the rapid rise in Indonesian shrimp exports in recent years.
Skipjack Tuna
10.       The demand for skipjack tuna has increased in recent years.
Because yellowfin tuna has become over-exploited, fishermen are turning to
the greatly under-exploited resources of the skipjack tuna - a smaller fish
of darker meat. Moreover, because the skipjack has a considerably shorter
lifespan than the yellowfin tuna, it contains smaller concentrations of
mercury and is blended with yellowfin to reduce overall mercury levels.
The skipjack resources of Indonesian waters have only begun to be fished
for export, from Aer Tembaga in North Sulawesi. Foreign demand for tuna,
including skipjack, has been rising faster than the available supplies and
this is reflected in rising trend in prices (Table 11-3).
April 24, 1974






ARMEX U1
Table 11-1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Export Volume of Fishery Products 1967-72
(tons)
Shrimp      Shrimp         Fresh               Ornamental
Year     Fresh      Processed        Fish      Frog     Fish          Others   Total
1967         82        170           1,119        -          3         6 ,408    7,782
1968*     2,961         hlh          3,416        -        23         13,376   19,717
1969*     5,129        508           2,332       28        h2         13,387   2],1126
3970**    5,687        259           1,157      637         97        10,769   18,606
1971**   13,781        331           3,500      500       1.00        10,503   28,755
1972**   22,000        n.a.           n.a.      n.a.      n.a.         n.a.    32,000
Note: *   Revised data
*3F Preliminary data
n.a. = Not available
Source:    Central Bureau of Statistics



ANNEX 11
Table 11-2
TI)ONDOTA
FISHMIES CREDIT PROJECT
Current Prices
Current prices used in calculating project returns are as
follows:
Rp per Ton
Skinjack Tuna   (paid to the State Fisheries Enterprise)           166,000
Skipjack 'una   (paid to cooperatives)                              90,000
Tee  (ex-factory)                                                    6,000
Assorted Fish (paid to trawlers)                                    45h,000
Exixrt Shrimp (paid to trawlers)                                 1,000,000
Milk Fish (ex-pond)                                                150,000
Sma)l Shrimp  (ex-pond)                                            100,000
r3rp'e Shrimp for Exoort  (ex-pond):
S'ulawesi                                                    600,000
Java                                                         800,000



ANNEX 11
Table 11-3
FI8H3~ZRS CIEJIT PROJECT
lkipiack Konthl& A,waM. btVessol. Price in J!Ma
(at Taisu Port)
ZsS.                           Mot                           u$ Per Ton
1969                                                            326
1970                                                            373
1971                                                            h48
1972                                                            h5o
1973                                                             497
1974                          Januar                            511
February                          535
)b:h                              551
ourcoi ITsiu Tish Xarkt*s, 3hisuoks-Pre., Japan.
.






INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Income Statement: P.N.:  State Fisheries Enterprise. Maluku
(Rp Thousands)
Year                          1        2           3            4           5             6            7             8            9           10            11            12           13
NET REVENUES
Fish Sales                          -        -         249,000      913,000     1,079,000)
Ice Sales                           -        -           9,000       33,000        39,000) Constant
Income from Repair Facilities       -        -           2,200        4,500         4,500)
TOTAL                             -        -         260,200      950,500     1,122,500    1,122,500    1,122,500    1,122,500    1,122,500    1,122,500    1,122,500    1,122,500    1,122,500
OPERATING COSTS
Purchase of Fish from Coop.         -        -          67,500      247,500       292,500)
10 Skipjack Boats (P.N.)            -        - )        56,468      172,845       192,295) Constant
2 Carriers   (P.N.)
Shore Facilities                    -        -          18,670       47,750        53.000)
TOTAL                             -        -          142,638     468,095       537,795       537,795      537,795       537,795      537,795       537,795       537,795      537,795       537,795
OPERATING INCOME                      -        -          117,562     482,405        584,705      584,705      584,705       584,705      584,705       584,705       584,705      584,705       584,705
Depreciation                        -        -          51,046      113,320       113,320       113,320      113,320       113,320      113,320       113,320       113,320      113,320        62,274
Interest                            -        -          100,000     160,006        149.914      137,663      123,943    1_,O576          91,365        72.088        50498        26, 318
GROSS INCOME                          -        -          (33,484)    209,079        321,471      333,722
Of which exempted from Tax:         (750)    (31,240)    (57,410)    (57,410)        (56,660)     (26,170)
Taxable Gross Income                  -        -                       28,785       264,811       307,552       347,442      362,809       380,020      399,297       420,887      445,067       522,431
Tax                                                                  12.953        119,165      138.398      156,349       163,264       171,009      179.684       189.399      200,280       235,094
NET INCOME                                                            196,126       202,306       195,324       191,093      199,545       209,011      219,613       231,488       244,787      287,337
Financial Rate of Return: 34 %
&3 



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECI
Projected Cash Flow: F.N.: State Fisheries Enterprise. Maluku
(Rp Thousands)
Year                           1          2          3           4          5          6           7           8             9           10            11           12             13         TOTAL
SOURCES OF FUNDS
1.  Funds Generated                    -          -         117,562    469,452    465,540    446,307    428,356       421,441       413,696      405,021       395,306       384,425      349,611    4,296,717
2.  Project Loan                      40,970    572,631    641,007      78,773      7,055                                                                                                            1,340,436
3. Equity                            107.415      -         106,350      -             -        -           _        _213, 765
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS           148,385    572,631    864,919    548,225    472,595    446,307    428,356        421,441       413,696      405,021       395,306       384,425      349,611    5,850,918
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
1,330,800
1. Project Investments                48,200    667,900    573,200      33,200      8,300
2.  Tncresnental Working Capital       -          -          94,300                                                                                                                       (94,300)
3. Debt Service
Amortization                                -           -         90,670    102,088    114,339    128,059       143,426       160,637      179,914       201,504       219,773         -        1,340,410
Interest                         -          -        100,000    160,006    149.914    137,663    123.943        108,576        91.365       72.088        50,498        26-318                 1,020,371
Total Debt Service               -          -        100000    250,676    252.002    252_002    252,002         252.002       252,002      252,002       252.002       246,091                  2,360,781
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS            48,200    667,900    767,500    283,876    260,302    252,002    252,002         252,002      252,002       252,002      252,002       246,091     (94,300)    3,691,581
NET INFLOW (OUTFLOW)
(a)  Annual                    100,185    (95,269)    97,419    264,349    212,293    194,305    176,354        169,439       161,694      153,019       143,304       138,334     443,911
(b)  Cumulative                100,185      4,916    102,335    366,684    578,977    773,282    949,636    1,119,075    1,280,769    1,433,788    1,577,092    1,715,426   2,159,337           2,159,337
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                                                                              1.77       1.70          1.67         1.64          1.61         1.57          1,56



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Income Statement: 30 GT Wooden Skipjack Boat (Co-op)-One Unit
(Rp Thousands)
Year                 1        2            3           4           5           6           7           8           9          10          11          12
NET REVENUES FROM SALES         -      22,050       24,750      29,250      29,250      29,250     29,250      29,250      29,250      29,250       29,250      29,250
OPERATING COSTS:
Fuel & Lubricants            -      1,315        1,315       1,315)
Ice                          -      2,940        3,300       3,900)
Bait                         -      2,450         2,750      3,250)
Wages                        -      5,655         6,348       7,503) Constant
Commissions                  -      2,205        2,475       2,926)
Repair & Maintenance         -      1,125         1,125      1,125)
Insurance                    -      1,350        1,350       1,350)
Overheads                    -      1,200         1,200      1,200)
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS           -     18,240       19,863      22,569      22,569      22,569      22,569      22,569      22,569      22,569      22,569       22,569
OPERATING INCOME
-      3,810        4,887       6,681       6,681       6,681       6,681       6,681       6,681       6,681       6,681       6,681
Depreciation                 -      2,250         2,250      2,250       2,250       2,250       2,250       2,250       2,250        2,250       2,250        -
Interest                     -      2,584         2,584        2,437     2,272       2,087       1,880       1.648       1,388        1,097         772         407
GROSS INCOME                    -      (1,024)          53       1,994       2,159       2,344       2,551       2,783       3,043       3,334       3,659       6,274
Taxes                        -        _            -            205         432         469         510         557         609         667         732       1.255
NET INCOME                      -      (1,024)          53       1,789       1,727       1,875       2,041       2,226       2,434       2,667       2,927       5,019
Financial Rate of Return: 20%
M1I
t.3 X



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Cash Flow: 30 GT Wooden Skipjack Boat (Co-op)-One Unit
(Rp Thousands)
Year                         1          2        3         4        5         6         7          8         9         10        11         12        TOTAL
SOURCES OF FUNDS
1. Funds Generated                    -        3,810    4,887    6,476    6,249       6,212      6,171     6,124      6,072     6,014      5,949      5,426    63,390
2. Project Loan                     19,125    2,413        -        -        -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -       21,538
3. Equity                            3,598                                                             -          -         -          -                        3.598
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS          22,723    6,223    4,887    6,476    6,249        6,212      6,171     6,124      6,072     6,014      5,949      5,426    88,526
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
1.  Project Investments             22,500       -         -        -         -        -          -         -          -         -          -          -       22,500
2.  Incremental Working Capital        -       1,488       -        -         -        -          -         -          -                    -        (1,488)     -
3. Debt Service
Amortization                   -          -      1,228    1,375    1,540       1,725     1,932      2,164      2,424     2,715      3,040     3,395    21,538
Interest                       -        2584    2,584    2,437    2,272        2,087     1.880      1,648     1,388      1,097        772        407    19,156
Total Debt Service             -        2,584    3,812    3,812    3,812       3,812     3,812      3,812      3,812     3,812      3,812      3,802    40,694
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS       22,500    4,072    3,812    3,812    3,812       3,812      3,812     3,812      3,812     3,812      3,812      2,314    63,194
NET INFLOW (OUTFLOW)
(a)  Annual                        223    2,151    1,075    2,664    2,437        2,400      2,359     2,312      2,260     2,202      2,137      3,112
(b)  Cumulative                    223    2,374    3,449    6,113    8,550    10,950    13,309    15,621    17,881    20,083    22,220    25,332    25,332
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                     -         -       1.28     1.7       1.64      1.63       1.62      1.61       1.59       1.58      1.56       1.43
4I



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT IROJECT
Projected Income Statement: Beach Seine-One Unit
(Rp Thousands)
Year                          1        2         3        4         5         6         7         8         9        10
NET REVENUES FROM FISH SALES    900    1,020    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200
OPERATING COSTS:
Lamp Oil                           6        6         6)
Repair & Maintenance               6        6         6) Constant
Wages                           768       878    1.038)                _ _
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS              780      890    1,050    1,050    1,050    1,050    1,050    1,050    1,050    1,050
OPERATING INCOME                   120      130       150       1-50      150       150       150       150      150       150
Depreciation                     50        50        50        50        50        50       50        50        50        50
Interest                         57        54        50        46        41       36        31        24        17         9
GROSS INCOME                        13        26       50        54        59        64        69        76        83       91
Taxes                             -      - -                 -         -         -        -         -         -_-
NET INCOME                          13        26       50        54        59        64        69        76        83        91
Financial Rate of Return: 36%
Mu



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Proiected Cash Flow: Beach Seine-One Unit
(Rp)
Year                           1           2          3           4           5          6            7           8          9          10         Total
SOURCES OF FUNDS
1.  Funds Generated                 120,000    130,000    150,000    150,000    150,000    150,000         150,000    150,000    150,000    150,000    1,450,000
2.  Project Loan                    475,000       -          -           -                 -                 -           -          -           -           475,000
3.  Equity                           25,000       -           -          -           -          -            -           -          -           -            25,000
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS          620,000    130,000    150,000    150,000    150,000    150,000         150,000    150,000    150,000    150,000    1,950,000
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
1.  Project Investments             500,000       -          -           -           -          -            -           -          -           -           500,000
2.  Incremental Working Capital       -           -          -           -           -          -            -           -          -           -            -
3. Debt Service
Amortization                  27,075      30,324     33,963      38,039     42,604      47,716       53,442     59,855      67,038      74,944       475,000
Interest                      57,000      53.751     50.112      46.036     41.471      36,359       30.633     24.220      17.037       9,131      365,750
Total Debt Service               84.075      84,075     84,075      84,075      84,075     84,075       84.075      84,075     84,075      84,075       840,750
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS      584,075      84,075     84,075      84,075      84,075     84,075       84,075      84,075     84,075      84,075    1,340,750
NET INFLOW (OUTFLOW)
(a)  Annual                      35,925      45,925     65,925      65,925     65,925      65,925       65,925     65,925      65,925      65,925
(b)  Cumulative                  35,925      81,850    147,775    213,700    279,625    345,550        411,475    477,400    543,325    609,250         609,250
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                                1.55        1.78       1.78        1.78       1.78         1.78        1.78        1.78       1.78
v 
fD 



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Income Statement: 30 GT Wooden Trawler-One Unit
(Rp Thousands)
Year                    1         2             3           4            5            6            7            8            9           10           11
NET REVENUES FROM FISH SALES   -        17,435        19,373       19,373       19,373       19,373       19,373      19,373       19,373       19,373       19,373
OPERATING COSTS:
Commission                     -         872           969          969)
Fuel & Lubricants              -       1,346         1,346        1,346)
Ice                            -         756           840          840)
Salt                           -       1,260         1,400        1,400)
Wage                           -       2,984         3,308        3,308)
Repair & Maintenance           -       1,050         1,050        1,050) Constant
Water                          _          70            70           70)
Food                           -       1,050         1,050        1,050)
Fishing Gear                   -         850           850          850)
Insurance                      -       1,260         1,260        1,260)
Overhead                       -       1,200         1,200        1,200)
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS            -      12,698        13,343       13,343       13,343       13,343       13,343       13,343       13,343       13,343       13,343
OPERATING INCOME                 -       4,737         6,030        6,030        6,030        6,030        6,030        6,030        6,030        6,030        6,030
Depreciation                   -       2,100         2,100        2,100        2,100        2,100        2,100        2,100        2,100        2,100        2,100
Interest                       -       2,468         2.328        2-X70        1,994        1,796        1,574       1,327        1.049           738          389
GROSS INCOME                     -          169        1,602        1,760        1,936        2,134        2,356        2,603        2,881        3,192        3,541
Of which exempted from tax
(5% of investment for 4 yrs)   -        (1,050)       (1,050)      (1,050)      (1,050)
TAXABLE GROSS INCOME             -         (881)         (329)        381          886        2,134        2,356        2,603        2,881        3,192        3,541
Tax (45% of GI)                -        -             -             171          399          960        1,060        1,171        1,296        1,436        1,593  o|
F-Ix
NET INCOME                       -         -             -           1,589       1,537        1,174        1,296        1,432        1,585        1,756        1,948  Z
Financial Rate of Return:  20%



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Cash Flow: 30 GT Wooden Trawler-One Unit
(Rp Thousands)
Year                            1           2          3          4         5          6           7           8           9          10          11         TOTAL
SOURCES OF FUNDS
1.  Funds Generated                      -        4,737      6,030      5,859      5,631       5,070       4,970       4,859       4,734       4,594       4,437      50,921
2.  Project Loan                       17,850     2,719                                                                                                               20,569
3.  Equity                              3.441       -                   ___         __          ____3_441_ 3.441
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS            21,291      7,456      6,030      5,859      5,631       5,070       4,970       4,859       4,734       4,594       4,437      74,931
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
1.  Project Investments                21,000       -                                                                                                                 21,000
2.  Incremental Working Capital          -        1,936                                                                                                   (1,936)       -
3.  Debt Service
Amortization                     -         1,172      1,313      1,470      1,647       1,845      2,066       2,314       2,592        2,903       3,251      20,573
Interest                         -         2,468      2.327      2,170     1.993       1,795       1,574       1.326       1,048          737         389      15,827
Total Debt Service               -         3.640      3.640      3640                  3.640 3L640Q364                                  3.     640   3.6400
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS        21,000      5,576      3,640      3,640      3,640       3,640       3,640       3,640       3,640       3,640       1,704      57,400
NET INFLOW (OUTFLOW)
(a)  Annual                          291      1,880      2,390      2,219      1,991       1,430       1,330       1,219       1,094         954       2,733
(b)  Cumulative                      291      2,171      4,561      6,780      8,771      10,201     11,531      12,750      13,844       14,798      17,531      17,531
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                                            1.66      1.61       1.55        1.39        1.37        1.33        1.30        1.26        1.22
t,j
F-  I
M M



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Income Statement: South Sulawesi: Dwvelopment of Fish pond: 5 ha
(Rp Thousands)
Year                           ol/        1           2           3            4           5          6           7           8           9         10-16
SALES OF FISH AND SHRIMP            137.5       185.0      222.5       280.0        420.0       420.0       420.0      420.0       420.0       420.0       420.0
OPERATING COSTS:
Fish Fry                           25.0        19.0        22.5       22.5         37.5)
Fertilizer                          -          20.0       30.0        45.0         55.0)
Labor                              62.5        90.0        90.0      120.0        180.0)Constant
Miscellaneous                       -           5.0         5.0        5.0          5.0)                                                     _
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                87.5       134.0       147.5      192.5        277.5       277.5       277.5       277.5       277.5      277.5       277.5
OPERATING INCOME                     50.0        51.0        75.0       87.5        142.5       142.5       142.5       142.5       142.5      142.5       142.5
INCREMENTAL OPERATING INCOME          -           1.0        25.0       37.5         92.5        92.5        92.5        92.5        92.5       92.5        92.5
Depreciation                        -           -          18.6       18.6         18.6        18.6        18.6        18.6        18.6       18.6        18.6
Interest                            -           -          18.0       30.0         36.4        31.9        26.9        21.3        15.0        8.0         -
GROSS INCOME                         50.0        51.0        38.4       38.9         87.5        92.0        97.0       102.6       108.9       115.9      123.9
GROSS INCREMENTAL INCOME              -           1.0       (11.6)      (11.1)       37.5        42.0        47.0        52.6        58.9        65.9        73.9
Gross income exempted from
tax                              45.0       45.0        45.0        45.0         45.0        45.0        45.0       45.0        45.0        45.0        45.0
Taxable Gross Income                  5.0         6.0        (6.6)       (6.1)       29.8        47.0        52.0        57.6        63.9        70.9        78.9
Tax                                 0.5         0.6         -          -            3.0         4.7         5.2         5.8         6.4         7.1         7.9
NET INCOME                           49.5        50.4        38.4        38.9         84.5       87.3        91.8        96.8       102.5       108.8       116.0
NET INCREMENTAL INCOME                -           0.4       (11.6)      (11.1)       34.5        37.3        41.8        46.8        52.5        58.8        66.0
Financial Rate of Return:  22%
NOTE: 1/ Pre-investment period
I- H,



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Cash Flow: South Sulawesi: Development of Fish Pond: 5 ha
(Rp Thousands)
Year                        1       2      3       4      5       6        7       8        9     10-15      16      TOTAL
SOURCES OF FUNDS
1.  Funds Generated                   0.4   25.0   37.5   89.5   87.8    87.3    86.7    86.1    85.4    84.6    84.6    1,177.9
2.  Project Loan                    254.0   30.5   13.1    5.7       -                                                           303.3
3.  Equity                           44.8      -      -       -      -                                                             44.8
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS          299.2   55.5   50.6   95.2   87.8    87.3    86.7    86.1    85.4    84.6    84.6    1,526.0
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
1.  Project Investments             278.5      -      -       -      -                                                            278.5
2.  Incremental Working Capital    20.3        -      -       -      -                                                (20.3)
3.  Debt Service
Interest                        -     18.0   30.0   36.4   31.9    26.9    21.3    15.0         8.0      -        -        187.5
Amortization                    -        -      -    37.3   41.8    46.8    52.4    58.7    65.7         -        -        302.7
Total Debt Service              -     18.0   30.0   73.7   73.7    73.7    73.7    73.7    73.7          -        -        490.2
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS    298.8   18.0   30.0   73.7   73.7    73.7    73.7    73.7    73.7                   (20.3)     768.7
NET INFLOW (OUTFLOW)
(a)  Annual                     0.4   37.5   20.6   21.5   14.1    13.6    13.0    12.4    11.7    84.6   104.9
(b)  Cumulative                 0.4   37.9   58.5   80.0   94.1   107.7   120.7   133.1   144.8   652.4   757.3            757.3
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                                           1.29   1.19    1.18    1.18    1.17    1.16
-I-



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Income Statement:    South Sulawesi:  Development of Shrimp Pond:  5 ha
(Rp Thousands)
Year                           ol/      1       2        3        4       5        6        7       8        9      10-16
SALES OF FISH AND SHRIMP         137.5   360.0   495.0   692.5   790.0   790.0   790.0   790.0   790.0   790.0   790.0
OPERATING COSTS:
Fish Fry                        25.0    56.5    93.5   112.5   135.0)
Fertilizers                      -       45.0    50.0    60.0    75.0)
Labor                           62.5   180.0   180.0   325.0   325.0)  Constant
Miscellaneous                    -       15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0)
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS             87.5   296.5   338.5   512.5   550.0   550.0   550.0   550.0   550.0   550.0   550.0
OPERATING INCOME                  50.0    63.5   156.5   180.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0
INCREMENTAL OPERATING INCOME       -       13.5   106.5   130.0   190.0   190.0   190.0   190.0   190.0   190.0   190.0
Depreciation                     -               31.8    31.8    31.8    31.8    31.8    31.8    31.8    31.8    31.8
Interest                         -        -      68.3    68.3    68.3    59.9    50.5    39.9    28.1    14.9           -
GROSS INCOME                      50.0    63.5    56.4    79.9   139.9   148.3   157.7   168.3   180.1   193.3   208.2
GROSS INCREMENTAL INCOME           -       13.5      6.4    29.9    89.9    98.3   107.7   118.3   130.1   143.3   158.2
Gross Income exempted from
tax                          45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0
Taxable Gross Income               5.0    18.5    11.4    34.9    94.9   103.3   112.7   123.3   135.1   148.3   163.2
Tax                             0.5      1.9      1.1     3.5      9.5    10.3    11.3    12.3    13.5    14.8    16.3
NET INCOME                        49.5    61.6    55.3    76.4   130.4   138.0   146.4   156.0   166.6   178.5   191.9
NET INCREMENTAL INCOME              -      11.6      5.3    26.4    80.4    88.0    96.4   106.0   116.6   128.5   141.9
Financial Rate of Return:  26%
NOTE:  1/  Pre-investment period.
IH?_



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Cash Flow: South Sulawesi: Development of Shrimp Pond: 5 ha
(Rp Thousands)
Year                             1          2          3         4          5         6          7         8          9        10-15       16          TOTAL
SOURCES OF FUNDS
1.  Funds Generated                  11.6      105.4      126.5     180.5      179.7     178.7      177.7     176.5      175.2      173.7       173.7      2,527.7
2.  Project Loan                    508.0       61.0        -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -           569.0
3.  Equity                           89.6        -          ---------89.6
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS          609.2      166.4     126.5      180.5      179.7     178.7      177.7     176.5      175.2     173.7        173.7      3,186.3
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
1.  Project Investments             477.4        -                                                                                                           477.4
2.  Incremental Working Capital    120.2         -                                                                                             (120.2)
3. Debt Service
Interest                        -         68.3      68.3       68.3      59.9       50.5       39.9      28.1       14.9        -         -            398.2
Amortization                    _        _         _           70.0       78.4      87.8       98.4     110.2      123.4       _          -            568.2
Total Debt Service              -         68.3      68.3      138.3     138.3      138.3      138.3     138.3      138.3        -         -            966.4
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS      597.6       68.3      68.3      138.3      138.3     138.3      138.3     138.3      138.3        -        (120.2)    1,443.8
NET INFLOW (OUTFLOW)
(a)  Annual                      11.6       98.1      58.2       42.2       41.4      40.4       39.4      38.2       36.9      173.7       293.9
(b)  Cumulative                  11.6      109.7     167.9      210.1      251.5     291.9      331.3     369.5      406.4   1,448.6      1,742.5      1,742.5
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                                                    1.31       1.30       1.29      1.28       1.28      1.27
I-3   -



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PR3JECT
Projected Income Statement: Java: Development of Fish Pond: 1 ha
(Rp Thousands)
Year                       1/    1       2       3      4       5      6     7       8       9     10     11      12    13-16
SALES OF FISH AND SHRIMP       27.3   41.0   59.5    73.5   89.5  89.5   89.5   89.5   89.5   89.5   89.5   89.5   89.5   89.5
OPERATING COSTS:
Fish Fry                     10.3    8.0   12.0    16.0   22.0)
Fertilizer                     -      6.0    8.5     9.7   12.3)
Labor                          9.6   14.7   22.5    25.5   30.3) Constant
Miscellaneous                   -     1.5    1.5     1.5    2.0)                            -                          -
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS           19.9   30.2  44.5    52.7   66.6   66.6   66.6   66.6   66.6   66.6   66.6   66.6   66.6   66.6
OPERATING INCOME                 7.4   10.8  15.0    20.8   22.9   22.9   22.9   22.9   22.9   22.9   22.9   22.9   22.9   22.9
INCREMENTAL OPERATING INCOME      -     3.4    7.6    13.4   15.5   15.5   15.5   15.5   15.5   15.5   15.5   15.5   15.5   15.5
Depreciation                   -       -     3.9     3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9
Interest                        -      -     7.2     7.2    6.8    6.3    5.8    5.2    4.6    3.9    3.1    2.2    1.1        -
GROSS INCOME                     7.4   10.8    3.9     9.7   12.2  12.7   13.2   13.8   14.4   15.1   15.9   16.8   17.9   19.0
GROSS INCREMENTAL INCOME          -     3.4   (3.5)    2.3    4.8    5.3    5.8    6.4    7.0    7.7    8.5    9.4   10.5   11.6
Gross income exempted from
tax                     45.0   45.0   45.0    45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0
Taxable Gross Income              -      -      -       -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -
Tax                            -      -      -       -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -
NET INCOME                       7.4   10.8    3.9     9.7   12.2   12.7   13.2   13.8   14.4   15.1   15.9   16.8   17.9   19.0
NET INCREMENTAL INCOME            -     3.4   (3.5)    2.3    4.8    5.3    5.8    6.4    7.0    7.7    8.5    9.4   10.5   11.6
Financial Rate of Return:  22%
NOTE:  1/  Pre-investment period.                                                                                              X
w >
LO-



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Cash Flow: Java: Development of Fish Pond: 1 ha
(Rp Thousands)
Year                             1       2        3       4       5       6        7       8       9        10      11       12    13-15      16      TOTAL
SOURCES OF FUNDS
1.  Funds Generated                  3.4     7.6    13.4    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5         15.5    15.5      15.5    225.9
2.  Project Loan                    53.3     6.4       -                                                                                                    59.7
3.  Equity                           9.4      -        -                                       ____                            ___--    _____    ___         9.4
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS          66.1    14.0    13.4    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5         15.5    15.5      15.5    295.0
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
1.  Project Investments             58.7      -                                                                                                             58.7
2.  Incremental Working Capital      4.0      -                                                                                                    (4.0)
3. Debt Service
Interest                        -      7.2     7.2      6.8     6.3     5.8      5.2     4.6     3.9      3.1     2.2      1.1      -                 53.4
Amortization                    -       -       3.4     3.8     4.3     4.8      5.4     6.0     6.7      7.5     8.4       9.5     -                 59.8
Total Debt Service              -      7.2    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6        10.6      -                113.2
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS          62.7     7.2    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6    10.6         ln.6              (4.0)   171.9
NET INFLOW (OUTFLOW)
(a)  Annual                     3.4     6.8     2.8      4.9     4.9     4.9      4.9     4.9     4.9      4.9     4.9      4.9    15.5      19.5
(b)  Cumulative                 3.4    10.2    13.0    17.9    22.8    27.7    32.6    37.5    42.4    47.3    52.2        57.1   103.6    123.1    123.1
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                                    1.26    1.46    1.46    1.46    1.46    1.46    1.46    1.46    1.46        1.46
1 >e



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Income Statement: Java: Development of Shrimp Pond: 1 ha
(Rp Thousands)
Year                        0        1       2         3         4        5         6         7        8         9       10-16
SALES OF FISH AND SHRIMP          41.3    87.0    115.5    149.8    187.8    187.8    187.8    187.8    187.8    187.8    187.8
OPERATING COSTS:
Fish Fry                        11.3    17.0      17.4     21.5      26.5)
Fertilizer                        -      4.2       7.3      9.9      13.7)
Labor                           15.5    37.5      44.5     55.0      76.5) Constant
Miscellaneous                     -      3.0       3.0       4.0      4.0)
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS             26.8    61.7      72.2     90.4    120.7    120.7    120.7    120.7    120.7    120.7    120.7
OPERATING INCOME                  14.5    25.3      43.3     59.4      67.1                          7.1      67.1      67.1     67.1
INCREMENTAL OPERATING INCOME        -     10.8      28.8     44.9      52.6      52.6     52.6      52.6      52.6      52.6     52.6
Depreciation                                       7.0      7.0       7.0       7.0      7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0      7.0
Interest                          -       -       14.3     14.3      12.9      11.3      9.5       7.6       5.3       2.8      -
GROSS INCOME                      14.5    25.3      22.0      38.1     47.2      48.8     50.6      52.5      54.8      57.3     60.1
GROSS INCREMENTAL INCOME            -     10.8       7.5      23.6     32.7      34.3     36.1      38.0      40.3      42.8     45.6
Gross Income exempted from
tax                      45.0    45.0      45.0      45.0     45.0      45.0      45.0      45.0     45.0      45.0      45.0
Taxable Gross Income                -        -       -         -        2.2       3.8       5.6      7.5       9.8      12.3      15.1
Tax                               -       -        -         -        0.2       0.4      0.6       0.8       1.0       1.2       1.5
NET INCOME                        14.5    25.3      22.0      38.1     47.0      48.4      50.0      51.7     53.8      56.1      58.6
NET INCREMENTAL INCOME              -     10.8       7.5      23.6     32.5      33.9      35.5     37.2      39.3      41.6      44.1
Financial Rate of Return:  38%
NOTE:  1/ Pre-investment period.
I-.4



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Cash Flow: Java: Development of Shrimp Pond: 1 ha
(Rp Thousands)
Year                          1       2      3       4      5       6        7       8        9     10-15      16     TOTAL
SOURCES OF FUNDS
1.  Funds Generated                 10.8   28.8   44.9   52.4    52.2    52.0    51.8    51.6    51.4    51.1    51.1   753.6
2.  Project Loan                   106.6   12.8      -                                                                      119.4
3.  Equity                          18.8     -       -                                                                       18.8
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS         136.2   41.6   44.9   52.4    52.2    52.0    51.8    51.6    51.4    51.1    51.1   891.8
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
1.  Project Investments            105.2     -                                                                              105.2
2.  Incremental Working Capital    20.3      -                                                                      (20.3)    -
3. Debt Service
Interest                             14.3   14.3   12.9    11.3       9.5     7.6     5.3      2.8                     78.0
Amortization                                 11.8   13.2    14.8    16.6    18.5    20.8    23.3                      119.0
Total Debt Service                   14.3   26.1   26.1    26.1    26.1    26.1    26.1    26.1                       197.0
TOTAL APPLICATON OF FUNDS      125.5   14.3   26.1   26.1    26.1    26.1    26.1    26.1    26.1               (20.3)  302.2
NET INFLOW (OUTFLOW)
(a)  Annual                     10.7   27.3   18.8   26.3    26.1    25.9    25.7    25.5    25.3    51.1    71.4
(b)  Cumulative                 10.7   38.0   56.8   83.1   109.2   135.1   160.8   186.3   211.6   518.2   589.6   589.6
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                                  1.72   2.01    2.00    1.99    1.98    1.98    1.97
I- tZ*
"3 M
m
tD >



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Income Statament: 5T Ice Plant/15T Ice Store: One Unit
(Rp Thousands)
Year                         1         2           3            4            5           6            7            8            9           10           11
SALES OF ICE                     -      9,000.0     9,000.0      9,000.0      9,000.0     9,000.0      9,000.0      9,000.0      9,000.0     9,000.0      9,000.0
OPERATING COSTS:
Staff Salary                   -        700.0)
Insurance                      -        200.0)
Generator Running Costs        -        900.0)
Lubricants, Ammonia, Salt      -        100.0)  Constant
Maintenance & Repair           -        200.0)
Labor                          -        400.0)
Overheads                      -        200.0)
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS            -      2,700.0     2,700.0      2,700.0      2,700.0     2,700.0      2,700.0      2,700.0      2,700.0      2,700.0     2,700.0
OPERATING INCOME                 -      6,300.0     6,300.0      6,300.0      6,300.0     6,300.0      6,300.0      6,300.0      6,300.0      6,300.0      6,300.0
Depreciation                   -      1,850.0     1,850.0      1,850,0      1,850.0     1,850.0      1,850.0      1,850.0      1,850.0      1,850.0      1,850.0
Interest                       -      2.207.7     2,081.9      1,940.9      1,783.1     1.606.3      1,408.2      1,186.5        938.1        659.9        348.3
GROSS INCOME                     -      2,242.3      2,368.1     2,509.1      2,666.9      2,843.7     3,041.8      3,263.5      3,511.9      3,790.1      4,101.7
Tax                            -        112.1       118.4        125.5        133.3        142.2       152J1        163.2        175.6        189.5        205.1
NET INCOME                        -     2,130.2      2,249.7     2,383.6      2,533.6      2,701.5      2,889.7     3,100.3      3,336.3      3,600.6      3,896.6
Financial Rate of Return:  30%
r,I



INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Cash Flow: 5T Ice Plant/15T Ice Store: One Unit
(Rp Thousands)
Year                              1           2          3         4          5          6           7           8          9           10          11       TOTAL
SOURCES OF FUNDS
1.  Funds Generated                             6,187.9   6,181.6   6,174.5    6,166.7    6,157.8    6,147.9    6,136.8    6,124.4    6,110.5    6,094.9   61,483.0
2.  Project Loan                     16,426.3   1,971.2                                                                                                           18,397.5
3.  Equity                            2,898.7     -                                                                                                                2 7_ _   _   _  2,8987 
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS          19,325.0   8,159.1   6,181.6   6,174.5    6,166.7    6,157.8    6,147.9    6,136.8    6,124.4    6,110.5    6,094.9   82,779.2
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
1.  Project Investments              18,500.0                                                                                                                     18,500.0
2.  Incremental Working Capital         833.0                                                                                                           (833.0)
3.  Debt Service
Interst                           -       2,207.7   2,081.9   1,940.9    1,783.1    1,606.3    1,408.2    1,186.5          938.1       659.9       348.3   14,160.9
Amortization                       -      1.048.7   1,174.5   1,315.5    1,473.3    1,650.1    1,848.2    2,069.9    2,318.3    2,596.5    2902.5   18,397.5
Total Debt Service                -       3,256.43,256. .                        4      256.4    3.256.4    3256.4                   3,256.4    3.250.8   32.558.4
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS      19,333.0   3,256.4   3,256.4   3,256.4    3,256.4    3,256.4    3,256.4    3,256.4    3,256.4    3,256.4    2,417.8   51,058.4
NET INFLOW (OUTFLOW)
(a)  Annual                          (8.0)  4,902.7   2,925.2   2,918.1    2,910.3    2,901.4    2,891.5    2,880.4    2,868.0    2,854.1    3,677.1
(b)  Cumulative                      (8.0)  4,894.7   7,819.9  10,738.0   13,648.3   16,549.7   19,441.2   22,321.6   25,189.6   28,043.7   31,720.8   31,720.8
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                                             1.90       1.90       1.89        1.89        1.89       1.88        1.88        1,88
o-z
0- 0



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
1.        The economic rates of return from the project investments have
been calculated as shown in Table 13-1. The following assumptions have
been made:
(a) Current prices have been used to estimate benefits;
(b) Current price levels net of import, excise, and sales taxes
have been used for investments and in calculating operating
costs, with allowance for cost increases excluded;
(c) The labor component has been costed at the prevailing wage
rate;
(d) Cost of the experts (the two engineers, naval architect
and management specialist) were charged to PNM's operations;
and
(e) Costs of the three pond fisheries experts and demonstration
ponds were not charged to the pond improvement component of
the project.
2.        Based on these assumptions, the economic rates of return would
range from 22% to 42%. To test the project components against changes in
investment costs and production results, a sensitivity analysis has been
carried out. By increasing the cost of investments by 30% without increas-
ing the value of the benefits, the rates would be from 15% to 29%. The
figures would be 16% to 31% if the value of the net benefits were to
decline by 20% without changing the costs of the investments.






INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return
(Rp Thousands)
Year                              1           2            3            4         5          6          7          8         9          10         11         12         13      14      15      16
1. P.N. State Fisheries Enterprise, Maluku
Net Incremental Income                       -           -         117,608    482,574   584,904   584,904   584,904   584,904   504,904   584,904   584,904   584,904   679,204
Capital Investment                         48,200     667,900      667,500      33,200      8,300                                                             -
Net Incremental Flow                      (48,200)   (667,900)   (549,892)   449,374   576,604   584,904   584,904   584,904   584,904   584,904   584,904   584,904   679,204
Economic Rate of Return:        347b
2.  30 GT Skipjack Fishing Vessel (Coop)
Net Incremental Income                       -           3,823       4,900       6,694      6,694      6,694      6,694     6,694      6,694      6,694      6,694      8,182
Capital Investment                         22,500        1,488                                          -
Net Incremental Flow                      (22,500)       2,335       4,900       6,694      6,694      6,694      69        6,694      6,694      6,694      6,694      8,182
Economic Rate of Return:        22%
3. Beach Seine
Net Incremental Income                        120          130          150         150       150        150        150        150       150        150
Capital Investment                            445
Net Incremental Flow                         (325)         I            150         150       150        150        150        150       150        150
Economic Rate of Return:        42%
4.  30 GT Trawler
Net Incremental Income                       -           4,775        6,043       6,043     6,043      6,043      6,043      6,043     6,043      6,043      7,979
Capital Investment                         21,000        1,936
Net Incremental Flow                      (21,000)       2,839        6,043       6,043     6,043      6,043      6,043      6,043     6,043      6,043      7,979
Economic Rate of Return:        22%
5. Ice Plant/Ice Store
Net Incremental Income                       -           6,309        6,309       6,309     6,309      6,309      6,309      6,309     6,309      6,309      7,142
Capital Investment                         l-,333--                                                                                                -          -
Net Incremental Flow                      (19,333)       69           6,309      6,309      6,309      6,309      6,309         09     6,309      6,309      7,142
Economic Rate of Return:        31%
6. Java: Fish Pond: I Ha
Net Incremental Income                        3.7          8.0         13.9        16.1       16.1      16.1       16.1       16.1       16.1       16.1       16.1      16.1       16.1   16.1    16.1    20.1
Capital Investment                           62.7        --
Net Incremental Flow                        (59.0)         8.0         13.9        16.1       16.1      16.1       16.1       16.1       16.1       16.1       16.1      16.1       16.1   16.1    16.1    20,1
Economic Rate of Return:        237,
7. Java: Shrimp Pond: I Ha
Net Incremental Income                       11.0         29.2         45.4        53.3       53.3      53.3       53.3       53.3       53,3       53.3       53.3      53-3       53.3   53.3    53.3    73.6
Capital Investment                          125.5        -            -            -          -         -          -          -                          -               -          -         -       -       -
Net Incremental Flow                       (114.5)        29.2         45.4        53.3       53.3      53.3       53.3       53.3       53.3       53.3       53.3      53.3       53.3   53.3    53.3    73.6
Economic Rate of Return:        39!.
8.  South Sulawesi:  Fish Pond:  5 Ha
Net Incremental Income                        2.0         26.5         39.8        95.3       95.3      95.3       95.3       95.3      95.3        95.3       95.3       95.3       95,3   95.3    95.3   115.6
Capital Investment                          298.8
Net Incremental Flow                       (296.8)        26.5         39.8        85.3       95.3      95.3       95.3       95.3      95.3        95.3       95.3       95.3      95.3   95.3    95.3   115.6
Economic Rate of Return:        24%
9.  South Sulawesi:  Shrimp Pond:  5 Ha
Net Incremental Income                       15.8        109.0        133.0       193.8      193.8     193.8      193.8      193.8    193.8        193.8      193.8     193.8      193.8  193.8   193.8   314.0
Capital Investment                          597.6                                                                           -            - -                   -
Net Incremental Flow                       (581.8)       109.0        133.0       193.8      193.8     193.8      193.8      193.8    193.8        193,8      193.8      193.8      193.8  193.8   193.8   314.0
Economic Rate of Return:        28%






)~~~~~~~~~r  -                                                                     1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8RD- 2853R
-  -  05             I~~~~0                 -15'     -        -  ~~~0'v           -     25                      ''                      5                     JULY  1973
tHALAND                            --S/ui                                                                               PHILIPPINES 
Scwth-Amnc  5-eu                        - ~Sea                                                               INDONESIA
--   -             nOok,,                                           ~~~~FISHERIES CRE:DIT PROJECT§
(                 -                        IF ~~~~~fi3  Skip1ack Falsag GvounJa                                                         
cekob&s                                            T rTr wliog Fiing  Grou,,d  -- 
Medo                                                                      I~~~~~~~~~~    ~    e                                                    Fish Pan4 Prcject Areas
Lumpc  ~     ~        N                                      ~SklpiacF Protect Areai
n  /)~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  Tertritoril Waters Boundaries
N   h,                                                                                                  1. epd- Itern analo Bourndaries
SUM4T~~~~~~~    t, ~~~~(VORNEO)                                                  ,5        Moca en'
doN                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~B.likp.p  LCS             ~~s.cf
c e a n                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WEST IRIAN
B    C/~~~~~~                  '¾s
0                                                                      O~~~~~- .-    RT-T-IMOR
A                      730100 -~)Mb                       A ec f ure -a
0  0  290   .300   400    5      60    -                                                                               E     -
05030  ,"s -SI70   0300            -                                                                                                                             R*  A 'L.. -  -  - 






127° 30;                                              12. 5wXtHAILAND
.    9 < 04t4  r  ,      P     OCI cAN
M.IOAPORE                                            WS
-v         ~~~KALIMANTAN                           IRtAN
A          ~~~~(BORNEO)  {ti
A S        c    CERAM
30                                                                                                       INDIAN                    VE 
OCEAN          JakartaJAAFOE 
B towmatn i( g/ R onal Bloundaries                                                             :;he-  bolnrio_ unnl  :hi en>  -JOnu
7he boundaries shon -m ihis map do sot
.iply endorsement or acceptance by the
World Bank and its affiliates
KANG
<<2    t                   /               @   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~C   E   R   A    M
Piru  Bay
3030' 
X  waaiOH AU                       SAPARUA
INDONESIA
FISHERIES CREDIT                                                                 a                                                            NUSA LAUT
PROJ E CT                t  ~~~~~AIRPORT X   a ala    B A IV D A   S F A
PROJECT                                                          mo
LOCATION -OF  FACILITIES
AT AMBON
Third Class Roads
Provincial Roads                                                                        j       o   e       is 2- II               6   40
L                ~~~~~~KILOMETERS 
0             to20                         30
MILEs                            <6
12r 30.                                               1280                                                1280 30'                                                120
0



