CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 480 IND
Project Agreement
(Fisheries Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
DATED JUNE 14, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 480 IND
Project Agreement
(Fisheries Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
DATED JUNE 14, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANK
RAKYAT INDONESIA (hereinafter called BRI).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million five hundred thousand dollars
($6,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that BRI agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and BRI, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to BRI on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BRI, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional term has the following meaning, namely
that "Sub-loan contract" means the contract to be entered into with each
Sub-borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BRI shall provide, through Sub-loans to assist Sub-borrowers
in carrying out Parts B, C(i) and (iii) and D of the the Project described in Schedule


﻿4
2 to the Development Credit Agreement, financial assistance with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering,
financial and fisheries practices and shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds are
available for this purpose.
(b)   Without restricting its obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section
and under Section 2.03(b) of this Agreement, BRI shall provide incremental working
capital under Sub-loans to Sub-borrowers who demonstrate to BRI that they are
unable to provide incremental working capital themselves.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) BRI shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-loan
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and BRI, to comply
with its obligations under this Agreement and the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and to achieve the purposes of the Project.
(b)   In complying with its obligation under paragraph (a) of this Section,
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, BRI shall process and make Sub-loans
to Sub-borrowers pursuant to the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement and, in addition, BRI shall make Sub-loans on terms whereby BRI shall
obtain, by written contract or by other appropriate legal means satisfactory to
the Association with the Sub-borrower, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and BRI, including security arrangements satisfactory to the
Association adequate to secure the due service of the Sub-loan, and the right of
BRI to:
(i)         require the Sub-borrower to carry out its Investment Sub-project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate technical, commercial, financial and managerial
standards;
(ii)        require the Sub-borrower to procure the goods and services
(other than the services of consultants) to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions set forth
or referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, and to use
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan exclusively for the purpose of carrying out its
Investment Sub-project;


﻿5
(iii)       require that all proposed contracts for the procurement of goods
and services included in Parts B, C(i) and (iii) and D of the
Project be submitted to BRI for approval prior to the award
thereof;
(iv)        inspect, by   itself or jointly   with  representatives of the
Association if the Association shall so request, the goods, vessels,
trawlers, sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Sub-project, the use and operation thereof and any
relevant records and documents;
(v)         obtain all such information as the Association or BRI shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration,   operations   and   financial  resources   and
expenditures of the Sub-borrower; and
(vi)        suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to the use
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such
Sub-borrower to perform     its obligations under the Sub-loan
contract with BRI.
Section 2.04. (a) BRI shall furnish, or cause to be furnished to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, designs, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the vessels
included in Parts B(i) and D of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonahly request.
(b)   BRI: (i) shall maintain separate records adequate to record the progress
of Parts B, C(i) and (iii) and D of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower and out of its own funds, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in Parts B, C(i) and (iii) and D of
the Project, and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts B, C(i)
and (iii) and D of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so
made available to it by the Borrower and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds and out of its own funds.


﻿6
(c)   Without restricting or limiting its obligations under paragraph (b) of
this Section, BRI shall establish and maintain a separate account in respect of
Parts B, C(i) and (iii) and D of the Project, and shall send to the Association:
(i) quarterly statements of such account within six week- after the end of each
quarter and (ii) promptly upon their preparation but not later than four months
after the end of the period covered thereby, annual statements of such account,
certified by auditors acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.05. BRI shall duly perform all its obligations under the BRI
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BRI
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) BRI shall, on behalf of Sub-borrowers, insure or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, except for the goods to be used under Part C(i) of the
Project, against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by BRI to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   BRI shall, on behalf of Sub-borrowers, insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the goods and civil works included in Parts B(i),
C(iii) and D of the Project and financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 'against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate business
practices.
Section 2.07. BRI shall make arrangements with PNM satisfactory to the
Association to facilitate the repayment of Sub-loans by Skipjack Sub-borrowers.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BRI
Section 3.01. BRI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association and BRI shall otherwise agree, BRI:
(i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets used in the execution of Parts B, C(i) and (iii) and D of the Project, except
in the ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to maintain


﻿7
its corporate existence and right to carry on operations and to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 3.03. BRI shall ensure that adequate and competent managerial and
operational staff shall be employed in its branch and field offices participating
in the Project.
Section 3.04. BRI shall regularly inspect the financial condition of
Sub-borrowers included in the Project.
Section 3.05. BRI shall employ at all times a competent and experienced
fisheries officer to assist in coordinating the implementation of the Project with
DGF and PNM.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BRI shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial resources and expenditures relating to the Project.
Section 4.02. BRI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
yea. audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of BRI and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and BRI shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit -will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and BRI shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views


﻿8
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of BRI and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and BRI shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
BRI of their respective obligations under the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. BRI shall enable the Association's representatives to visit all
sites and offices, and to examine all facilities, property and equipment of BRI
and any relevant records and documents relating to the carrying out of Parts B,
C(i) and (iii) and D of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of BRI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date eighteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BRI of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿9
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For BRI:
Kantor Besar Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Jalan Veteran 8
Jakarta, Indonesia
P.O. Box 94-JKT.
Cable address:
KABEBRI
Jakarta
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of BRI may be taken or executed by BRI or such other person or persons as
BRI shall designate in writing.


﻿10
Section 7.03. BRI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of BRI, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by BRI pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Raymond J. Goodman
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
By /s/ Abdul Habir
Authorized Representative


﻿0
11
SCHEDULE 1
Sub-loans
A.    Processing of Sub-loans by BRI
1.    Fisheries Cooperatives, Fishermen and Private Entrepreneurs
Fisheries Cooperatives, fishermen and private entrepreneurs who seek
Sub-loans under Parts B, C(iii) and D of the Project may apply for credit by
submitting an application to BRI which specifies, inter alia, the proposed investment
plan. Applications by Sub-borrowers under Parts B(i) and D of the Project will
be prepared with the assistance of the consultant referred to in Section 3.02(a)(i)(C)
of the Development Credit Agreement. Applications by Sub-borrowers under Part
C(iii) of the Project shall include, inter alia, DGF's approval of the siting of the
ice plant and, in the case of Fisheries Cooperatives, DGF's confirmation that said
Fisheries Cooperative is viable and capable of operating the ice plant. BRI will
enter into a written Sub-loan contract with the applicant, provided that BRI: (i)
has approved the creditworthiness of the applicant and (ii) is satisfied that the
proposed investment is financially and technically viable.
2.    Fish and Shrimp Pond Operators
Fish and shrimp pond operators who seek Sub-loans under Part C(i) of the
Project may apply for credit by submitting an application to BRI which specifies,
inter alia, the proposed investment plan. Each such application will be prepared
with the assistance of an extension officer who will indicate thereon the phasing,
cost and estimated financial return for the applicant's proposed improvements. BRI
will enter into a written Sub-loan contract with the applicant, provided that BRI:
(i) has approved the creditworthiness of the applicant, and (ii) is satisfied that
the proposed investment is financially and technically viable.
BRI will extend further credit to the fish or shrimp pond operator only
upon confirmation from DGF of such operator's satisfactory technical performance
and upon confirmation by BRI of such operator's continued satisfactory
creditworthiness.
B.    Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.    Sub-loans for Skipjack Tuna Fishing Vessels
(a)   Amount: BRI will finance a maximum of 85% of the total investment
cost of skipjack tuna fishing vessels as stated in the approved application.


﻿12
(b)   Repayment terms: a maximum of 12 years including a maximum grace
period of 2 years.
(c)  Interest rate: a minimum of 12% per annum on the amounts withdrawn
and outstanding with interest payable during the grace period.
(d)  Security: on the skipjack tuna fishing vessels and such other security
as BRI shall reasonably determine.
2.   Sub-loans for Nets
(a)  Amount: BRI will finance a maximum of 95% of the total investment
cost of nets as stated in the approved application.
(b)  Repayment terms: a maximum of 10 years without any period of grace.
(c)  Interest rate: a minimum of 12% per annum on the amounts withdrawn
and outstanding.
(d)  Security: such security as BRI shall reasonably determine.
3.   Sub-loans for Trawlers
(a)  Amount: BRI will finance a maximum of 85% of the total investment
cost of trawlers for Fisheries Cooperatives and a maximum of 75% of the total
investment cost of trawlers for other Sub-borrowers as stated in the approved
application.
(b)  Repayment terms: a maximum of 11 years including a maximum grace
period of one year.
(c)  Interest rate: a minimum of 12% per annum on amounts withdrawn
and outstanding with interest payable during the grace period.
(d)  Security: on the trawlers and such other security as BRI shall
reasonably determine.
4.   Sub-loans for Ice Plants
(a)  Amount: BRI will finance a maximum of 85% of the total investment
cost of ice plants for Fisheries Cooperatives and a maximum of 75% of the total
investment cost of ice plants for other Sub-borrowers as stated in the approved
application.


﻿13
(b)   Repayment terms: a maximum of 11 years including a maximum grace
period of one year.
(c)  Interest rate: a minimum of 12% per annum on the amounts withdrawn
and outstanding with interest payable during the grace period.
(d)   Security: on the ice plants and such other security as BRI shall
reasonably determine.
5.   Sub-loans for Fish and Shrimp Ponds
(a)  Amount: BRI will finance a maximum of 85% of the total investment
cost of fish and shrimp ponds as stated in the approved application.
(b)   Repayment terms: a maximum of 9 years including a maximum grace
period of 3 years for fish and shrimp ponds in South Sulawesi; a maximum of
12 years including a maximum grace period of 2 years for fish ponds in Java;
and a. maximum of 9 years including a maximum grace period of 2 years for shrimp
*         ponds in Java.
(c)   Interest rate: a minimum of 12% per annum on amounts withdrawn
and outstanding with interest payable during the grace period.
(d)   Security: on the fish and shrimp ponds and such other security as
BRI shall reasonably determine.


