CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 480 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fisheries Credit Project)
..                               BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 14, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 480 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fisheries Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
OATED JUNE 14, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out in part by P. N. Perikani Maluku and
in part by Bank Rakyat Indonesia with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to P. N. Perikani Maluku and
to Bank Rakyat Indonesia the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided, except
the proceeds of the Credit which relate to the services of the consultants referred
to in Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Bank Rakyat Indonesia;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h); and
(c)   In Section 8.02 the words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement".


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BRI" means Bank Rakyat Indonesia, established by and operating
under Law No. 21/1968 of the Borrower, and any successor or successors thereto;
(b)   "PNM" means P. N. Perikani Maluku, established by Law No. 50/1961
and operating under Law No. 19/1960 of the Borrower, as such Laws have been
amended from time to time;
(c)   "DGF" means the Directorate General of Fisheries of the Borrower;
(d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and BRI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(e)   "BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and BRI pursuant to Section 3.0 1(d) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement, if any;
(f)   "PNM Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and PNM pursuant to Section 3.01(d) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the PNM Subsidiary Loan Agreement, if any;
(g)   "Fisheries Cooperative" means a cooperative established and operating
under Law No. 12/1967 of the Borrower, as the same may be amended from
time to time, for the purpose of carrying out fishing activities;
(h)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by BRI to
a fisherman, a Fisheries Cooperative, a pond operator or a private entrepreneur
to assist in financing an Investment Sub-project, as defined in paragraph (i) of
this Section;
(i)   "Investment Sub-project" means an investment by a Sub-borrower for
the purpose of carrying out part of the Project;
(j)   "Skipjack Sub-borrower" means a fisherman, a Fisheries Cooperative
or a private entrepreneur to which BRI proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan
to assist in financing an Investment Sub-project under Part B(i) of the Project;


﻿5
(k)   "Sub-borrower" means a fisherman, a Fisheries Cooperative, a pond
operator or a private entrepreneur to which BRI proposes to make or has made
a Sub-loan, and includes a Skipjack Sub-borrower; and
(1)   "Guidelines" means the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October
1972.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million five hundred thousand dollars
($6,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Associatioil
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(i)        the goods and services (other than the services of consultants)
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines,
and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(ii)       the Borrower shall cause DGF to carry out the obligations of
DGF set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿6
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April. 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1984 and ending April 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Director General of Fisheries or such person or persons
as he shall authorize is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions with respect
to Categories 1 and 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Board of Managing Directors of BRI or such person or persons
as the Board shall authorize is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions with respect to Category 2 of Schedule I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part C(ii) of the Project,
cause PNM to carry out Part A of the Project and cause BRI to carry out Parts
B, C(i) and (iii) and D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
confonrmity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, commercial, engineering
and fisheries practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without restricting or limiting its other obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section:


﻿7
(i)         the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover
the budgeted expenditures estimated by DGF to be required for
Parts A and C(ii) of the Project, for the services of the
consultants referred to in Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement,
for the services of the extension officers referred to in Section
3.03(a) of this Agreement and for the training of the extension
officers referred to in Section 3.03(b) of this Agreement during
each calendar quarter shall be available for use by DGF not later
than the fifteenth day of such quarter; and
(ii)        the Borrower and the Association shall review from time to time
the effectiveness of the financial procedures under which the
funds required for the Project are made available, including those
described in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section, and the Borrower
shall implement such procedures as the Borrower and the
Association shall agree are necessary for the diligent and efficient
carrying out of the Project.
(c)   In the event that PNM has insufficient liquid funds to carry out Part
A of the Project or Fisheries Cooperatives have insufficient liquid funds available
to contribute to their respective parts of the Sub-loans as specified in the
applications for Sub-loans which are approved by BRI, the Borrower shall make
arrangements satisfactory to the Association to provide PNM or Fisheries
Cooperatives with such funds, as required.
(d)   The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Credit to PNM
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
PNM under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association
and part of the proceeds of the Credit to BRI under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and BRI under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association.
(e)   Without restricting  or limiting its other obligations under this
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause:
(i)         BRI to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement and the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, and
(ii)        PNM to perform in accordance with the provisions of the PNM
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,


﻿8
and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BRI and
PNM to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(f)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the BRI Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the PNM Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or PNM Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause DGF to employ consultants acceptable to the Association
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association as follows:
(i)         within six months of the Effective Date, DGF shall employ:
(A)   a management consultant to assist in carrying out Part
A of the Project;
(B)   an electrical/mechanical engineer to assist in carrying out
Parts A and C(iii) of the Project; and
(C)   a naval architect/master boat builder to assist in carrying
out Parts A, B(i) and D of the Project; and
(ii)        within six months of the Effective Date, DGF shall employ three
fish pond development consultants to assist in carrying out Part
C of the Project and in training the extension officers referred
to in Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause PNM to repay the Borrower for that portion
of the services of the consultants referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of this Section
which are allocated to PNM under arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause PNM to appoint qualified counterpart staff
to work with the consultants referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of this Section.
(d)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause PNM to employ a qualified and experienced accountant to assist PNM in
improving its accounting and reporting systems.


﻿9
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be made available for Parts
C(i) and (ii) of the Project, as required, such numbers of extension officers with
requisite levels of training as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall prepare and implement a training program
satisfactory to the Association for the extension officers referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause DGF to assist in coordinating and
supervising the implementation of the Project and shall cause DGF to employ
full-time a competent and experienced senior officer assisted by adequate and
competent supporting staff for this purpose.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause PNM to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit with respect to Part A of the Project against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by PNM to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the credit relating
to Part A of the Project to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause PNM to furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for Part A of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall cause PNM     to maintain separate records
adequate to record the progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower and out of its own funds, and to disclose the use
thereof in Part A of the Project; (ii) shall cause PNM to enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine Part A of the Project, the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower and out of its
own funds, and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall cause PNM
to furnish, to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds and out of its own funds.


﻿10
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause PNM to acquire a suitable site on Ambon in order to carry out Part
A of the Project and shall cause PNM to furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such site is
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PNM to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations and financial resources and expenditures of PNM.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause PNM to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of such financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information conc',rning the accounts and financial statements of PNM and the audit
thereof as the jissociation shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take such action as may be necessary,
including but not limited to collecting skipjack tuna market information and
facilitating negotiations with foreign buyers thereof, to assist PNM in making
satisfactory marketing arrangements for the export of skipjack tuna.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause a qualified and experienced person
to be employed at all times as Chief Executive Director of PNM and before any
such appointment is made, the Borrower shall cause the Association to be informed
of the names, qualifications and experience of the persons being considered for
such appointment and to be afforded a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
on the qualifications and experience of the proposed appointees.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause all demonstration ponds included
in Part C(ii) of the Project to be adequately maintained and shall cause funds
to be provided, as and when necessary, for this purpose.


﻿11
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause the Jepara Research Center to monitor
the flow of pesticides into the fish ponds included in Parts C(i) and (ii) of the
Project and shall institute, or cause to be instituted, such remedial action as may
be necessary to control any adverse effects from such pesticides.
Section 4.06. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause PNM within the constraints of its freezing capacity
to purchase all skipjack tuna suitable for export offered to PNM by Skipjack
Sub-borrowers and to pay a price therefor which shall ensure that Skipjack
Sub-borrowers are paid a price which is equal to a reasonable proportion of the
sales price received by PNM in exporting such skipjack tuna.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause DGF, in consultation with the
Association, to establish and maintain an adequate program to monitor and evaluate
the economic and financial benefits which result from the Project.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall cause PNM to make arrangements with
BRI satisfactory to the Association to facilitate the repayment of Sub-loans by
Skipjack Sub-borrowers.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by BRI of its obligations under the Project Agreement
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political sibdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿12
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of BRI and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance by BRI of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the performance by PNM
of its obligations under the PNM Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,


﻿13
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   BRI shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
of BRI under the Project Agreement.
(b)   Law  No. 21/1968   of the Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of BRI to carry out the covenants, agreements and
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdication shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PNM or for the
suspension of its operations.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 7.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
BRI have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.


﻿14
(b)   The execution and delivery of the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of fhe Borrower and BRI, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The execution and delivery of the PNM Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and PNM, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(d)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.02(a)(i) and (ii) of this
Agreement, at least one of the consultants referred to in Section 3.02(a)(ii) of
this Agreement and the consultant referred to in Section 3.02(a)(i)(A) of this
Agreement shall have been appointed and taken up their respective duties.
(e)   The budget of DGF with respect to the implementation of the Project
up to March 31, 1975, has been approved by the Borrower and funds equivalent
to at least $200,000 have been made available in accordance with the provisions
of Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, BRI, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of BRI in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BRI,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
BRI in accordance with its terms.
(c)   That the PNM Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and PNM,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
PNM in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date October 18, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 7.02 and Section 7.03 of this Agreement


﻿15
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date eighteen years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Jakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿16
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Abdul Habir
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Raymond J. Goodman
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             %O of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
1.   Civil works,                     2,000,000           50% of total
equipment, mate-                                    expenditures
rials and vessels
for Part A of the
Project
2.    Sub-loans for:                  3,500,000           58% of amounts
disbursed
(a)   Part B of
the Project
(b)   Parts C(i)
and (iii) and
D of the Proj-
ect
3.    Consultants'                      60(,,000          100% of foreign
services                                            expenditures or
100% of local
expenditures
(salaries only)
4.    Unallocated                       400,000
TOTAL              6,500,000


﻿18
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term  "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   Category 1 unless (i) the accountant referred to in Section 3.02(d)
of this Agreement shall have been appointed and (ii) the site referred to in Section
3.07 of this Agreement shall have been acquired;
(c)   Category 2(a) unless the site referred to in Section 3.07 of this
Agreement shall have been acquired; and
(d)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above


﻿19
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category 1 shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to accelerate the Borrower's program to increase
production from its fisheries resources for both domestic consumption and export
and to provide increased employment opportunities and incomes for fishermen and
their families. The Project is in part the improvement and expansion of the facilities
and operations of PNM and in part a lending program to be undertaken by BRI
in cooperation with DGF. It consists of the following Parts:
Part A:     PNM
(i)         Purchase and utilization by PNM  of:
(a)   about ten 30-gross ton pole and line fishing boats for skipjack
tuna fishing near Ambon; and
(b)   two I 00-gross ton carrier vessels to support pole and line fishing
boats engaged in skipjack tuna fishing near Ambon;
(ii)        Construction and equipping by PNM    of:
(a)   an icemaking, freezer and storage facility to preserve the quality
of the skipjack tuna catch,
(b)   two small jetties, one each at Hitu and Waai, to supply provisions
for pole and line fishing boats engaged in skipjack tuna fishing;
(c)   one jetty  for loading and    unloading carrier vessels and
refrigerator vessels loading skipjack tuna for export; and
(d)   repair facilities, including a workshop and a slipway, for pole
and line fishing boats engaged in skipjack tuna fishing and carrie-
vessels; and
(iii)       Purchase and utilization by PNM of nets for the purpose of
supplying bait to the pole and line fishing boats referred to in
paragraph (i)(a) of this Part.


﻿21
Part B:     Skipjack Tuna Sub-borrowers
(i)         Financial assistance through Sub-loans from BRI to Fisheries
Cooperatives and private entrepreneurs for the purchase and
utilization of about ten 30-gross ton pole and line fishing boats
for skipjack tuna fishing near Ambon; and
(ii)        Financial assistance through Sub-loans from BRI to Fisheries
Cooperatives and fishermen at Ambon engaged in bait fishing
for the purchase and utilization of nets.
Part C:     Fish Pond Sub-borrowers
(i)         Financial assistance through   Sub-loans from   BRI to pond
operators in order to increase production of milkfish and shrimp
from about 15,000 hectares of smallholder brackish water ponds
in South Sulawesi and along the northern coast of Java by:
(a)   introducing improvements to pond construction such as levelling
of ponds, relocating and increasing the number of sluice gates
and strengthening and constructing dikes and ditches;
(b)   increasing the use of fertilizers and pesticides; and
(c)   initial stocking of ponds with fish fry and shrimp larvae and
introducing new methods of fish stocking management;
(ii)        Establishment by DGF of a total of about forty-five ponds, one
to five hectares in size, in South Sulawesi and along the northern
coast of Java in order to demonstrate the pond construction
improvements, the use of fertilizers and pesticides and the fish
stocking management methods referred to in paragraph (i) of
this Part; and
(iii)       Financial assistance through Sub-loans from BRI to Fisheries
Cooperatives and private entrepreneurs for the construction and
equipping of about nine ice plants, each designed to produce
at least five tons of ice per day, including a storage capacity
of at least fifteen tons of ice, to preserve the quality of fish
and shrimp obtained under Parts C and D of the Project.


﻿22
Part D:     Trawler Sub-borrowers
Financial assistance through Sub-loans from BRI to Fisheries
Cooperatives and private entrepreneurs for the purchase and utilization
of about twenty-five 30-gross ton trawlers for use in catching fish and
shrimp primarily in the Java Sea.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Part A.     Responsibility for Procurement
1.    The civil works and equipment included in Part A(ii) of the Project shall
be procured under a single contract by PNM.
2.    (a)   Vessel wooden hulls, vessel engines, fishing gear and other equipment
shall be procured from suppliers,prequalified by DGF pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 4 of this Part of this Schedule, by PNM under Part A(i) of the Project
and by the relevant Sub-borrowers through BRI under Parts B(i) and D of the
Project.
(b)   Without restricting or limiting any obligations under the provisions of
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, vessel wooden hulls shall be procured by PNM
and the relevant Sub-borrowers only from shipyards in Indonesia which have been
prequalified by DGF pursuant to all provisions of paragraph 4 of this Part, except
for the obligation therein to transmit copies of invitations to bid to representatives
of member countries of the Bank and Switzerland..
3.    The nets included in Part A(iii) of the Project shall be procured by PNM,
and the nets included in Part B(ii) of the Project, the materials, equipment and
services related to the improvements to the fish ponds included in Part C(i) of
the Project and the ice plants included in Part C(iii) of the Project shall be procured
by the relevant Sub-borrowers through BRI.
4.    If bidders or suppliers are required to prequalify for any contract included
in the Project, DGF shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Association
in detail of the procedure to be followed, which shall include, inter alia, the
transmittal of copies of invitations to bid to representatives of member countries
of the Bank and Switzerland, and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders or suppliers shall be furnished by DGF to the Association as soon as such
list is completed.
Part B.     Contracts Governed by Guidelines
With respect to the contract for the civil works and equipment included
in Part A(ii) of the Project and to the contracts for ice plants included in Part
C(iii) of the Project:


﻿24
(a)   With respect to the contracts for ice plants incliled in Part C(iii) of
the Project, all references in paragraphs (b) to (e) of this Part to PNM's obligation
to inform   the Association   of, and    furnish  the Association with, various
documentation shall include an obligation of BRI to inform the Association of,
and furnish the Association with, the same documentation.
(b)   Before bids are invited, PNM shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, PNM shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
Part C      Contracts Governed by Procedures Other than the Guidelines
1.   (a)    Contracts for vessel wooden hulls included in Parts A(i), B(i) and D
of the Project shall be awarded on the basis of local competition among the
shipyards prequalified pursuant to Part A of this Schedule.
(b)   Before a final decision is made on the award of any contract referred
to in paragraph 1(a) of this Part with respect to Part A(i) of the Project, PNM
shall inform the Association of the name of the bidder to whom it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,


﻿25
together with the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of any contract included in Part C(i)(b) of
this Schedule shall not, without the Association s concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of each contract included in Part C(i)(b) of
this Schedule shall be furnished to the Association promptly after its execution
and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract.
2.    (a)   Contracts for vessel engines and fishing gear and other equipment shall
be awarded on the basis of local competition, provided, however, that such
competition shall include, but not be limited to, the solicitation of not less than
three price quotations.
(b)   Without restricting its obligations under paragraph 4 of Part A of this
Schedule, DGF shall:
(i)         advertise internationally the intended procurement of vessel
engines and fishing gear and other equipment in order that
suppliers not yet established or represented in Indonesia may
have an opportunity to become so established or represented
and to make provision in Indonesia for adequate spare parts
inventories and after-sale service facilities; and
(ii)        not less than three months after the advertisement referred to
in sub-paragraph (b)(i) above has been completed for each
respective type of equipment. prequalify suppliers of such
equipment from those established or represented in Indonesia
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 of Part A of this
Schedule.
3.    (a) Materials, equipment and services for the improvements to the fish ponds
included in Part C(i) of the Project and nets included in Part B(ii) of the Project
shall be procured pursuant to procedures which BRI shall reasonably establish.


﻿26
(b)   Nets included in Part A(iii) of the Project shall be procured pursuant
to procedures which PNM shall reasonably establish.
4.    To the extent possible, PNM   shall bulk, and BRI shall bulk or cause to
be bulked, contracts for the equipment referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this
Part.


