CIRCULATtNG CObuy
TILE      COPY                Ift BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1414-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
COMPANHIA HIDRO ELETRICA DO SAO FRANCISCO (CHESF)
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
PAULO AFONSO IV HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
May 22, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 16, 1974)
Currency Unit         =           Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                  =           Cr$6.515
Cr$l                  =           US$o.153
Cr$l Million          =           US$153,492



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCI'ION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE COMPANHIA HIDRO ELETRICA DO SAO FRANCISCO (CHESF)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE PAULO AFONSO IV HYDROELECT'RIC POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan to Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF)
with the guarantee of the Federative Republic of Brazil for the
equivalent of US$81.0 million to help fin,ance the Paulo Afonso IV
hydroelectric power project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 14-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 7-1/4% per annum.
In December 1973, the Board of the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) approved a parallel loan of US$814.8 million including US$14.6
million in financing charges towards this: project. The IDB loan
would have a term of 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace, with
interest at 8% per annum. In addition CHESF expects to obtain
bilateral parallel financing totalling US$71,9 million from various
supplier countries.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, entitled I'the Economic and Social Develop-
ment of Brazil" (R73-87), dated March 12, 1973, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 2, 1973. An. economic mission visited Brazil
in the latter part of 1973 and its report is currently in preparation.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        The Brazilian economy has continued to grow at the very rapid
pace which began in 1968. The increase in domestic product for 1973 is
estimated to have been 10.5%. This was the third consecutive year of
growth exceeding 10% and the sixth in which it exceeded 9%. Over this
six-year period the per capita income of the country has increased 50%,
its manufacturing output has doubled and its exports (in current dollars)
have increased 3.5 times. Not only was overall growth in 1973 very rapid
but it was well distributed sectorially and regionally. Industrial pro-
duction was up 14%, and this will be the fourth consecutive year of
acceleration of industrial growth. Economic growth for 1973 in the
Northeast, where the weather was favorable for agriculture and where



inclustrial output is beginning to show the effects of previous invest-
merits stimulated by fiscal incentives, was in the order of 13 to 15%.
Finally, while world prices have been increasing rapidly, the Govern-
mernt was able to manage its financial programs so that inflation did
not; accelerate during 1973. However, increased inflationary pressures
have been evident in the early part of 1974 as a result of decontrol of
some domestic prices and rapidly increasing import prices especially
for petroleum.
h.        The development of Brazilian industry seems to be entering a
new phase, as excess capacity which had been playing a key role in expan-
sion of output has largely been utilized and most key industries are
operating between 90 and 95% of capacity. Rapid expansion of industrial
output has produced some bottlenecks in the supply of intermediate goods
and raw materials, especially steel and petrochemicals. This supply gap
is being filled by increased imports, which the Government has facilitated
by reducing, and in many cases suspending, import duties. The Government
has plans in an advanced state of preparation for expanding domestic pro-
duction of these critical intermediate goods. Over the short term, in-
creased import requirements will reflect both these bottlenecks and the
higher costs of imported petroleum.
5.        The agricultural sector is also undergoing some important
structural modifications. The strong increase in international demand
for and prices of major products has led to substantial changes in
price-cost relationships among traditional crops and new export crops
like soybeans. Over the short term, these changes are making it diffi-
cult for the Government to balance export demand against requirements
of the domestic market. In the case of beef, the Government has tem-
porarily restricted exports in order to dampen the increases in domestic
prices which might endanger its targets for reduction of inflation. On
the other hand, exports of some agricultural products have increased
sharply and Brazil has become one of the world's leading exporters of
soybeans and sugar. While recent trends are causing temporary diffi-
culties in the management of the agriculture sector, they have generally
desirable longer term implications for the location and structure of
agricultural production. Pressure on presently cultivated land caused
by the expansion of soybean production is encouraging a marked accelera-
tion in the opening to commercial agriculture and livestock production
of large areas in the Center-West, and the agricultural frontier is
extending.
6.        There are indications that the continued rapid expansion of
the Brazilian economy had a beneficial impact on employment and real
wages during 1973. The data showing increased industrial employment
(8% in 1973) and real wages (2.3% in 1973) are clear. Less definite
but perhaps more important are reports of shortages of rural labor in
the South and rising wages for farm laborers harvesting coffee, cotton
and sugar crops. While technicians and skilled workers have been in
short supply in Brazil for some time, there are now persistent reports
of scarcity of unskcilled workers, especially in the construction indus-
try of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. While indications of increasing



absorption of labor and rising real wages encourage the belief that the
lower income groups are enjoying an increase in their income in real
terms, it cannot yet be said to what extent this will diminish the
skewed pattern of income distribution in Brazil.
7.        The rapid expansion of the Brazilian economy over 1968-72 de-
pended increasingly on the utilization of foreign savings. The resource
gap, which was 0.9% of GNP in 1968, grew steadily to 3.4% in 1972 as
increases in domestic savings did not keep pace with the investment re-
quirements of a 10% average rate of GDP growth, as the investment rate
rose from 17.4% of GDP in 1968 to 19.4% in 1972. During this period
the growth of exports, while averaging 13% per year, was well below the
20% growth of imports. However, this pattern of development was reversed
in 1973 as domestic savings, stimulated 'by Government-induced savings
schemes and facilitated by increasing export prices, were estimated to
increase almost 23% and reach 19.8% of GDP. For the first time in many
years this exceeded the growth of investment, so that the resource gap
narrowed from 3.4 to 3.2% of GDP. It should be pointed out that this
may not represent a trend toward narrowirng resource gaps and reduced
external capital requirements but may, in part, reflect a lag between
increased incomes due to improved te'rms of trade and increases in con-
sumption and imports.
8.        The growth of the Brazilian economy continues to be fueled by
the outstanding performance of export agriculture and industry. The
dollar value of Brazil's exports increased by 45% in 1973, following a
37% increase in 1972. The country has benefited from rising world
commodity prices; nevertheless, it is es-timated that 64% of the increase
in exports will be due to increased volume. Thus, despite an increase
in imports of more than 30%, largely ref:Lecting expansion of wheat,
steel, petroleum and chemical imports, the country enjoyed in 1973 a
positive trade balance for the first time since 1970 and the current
account deficit was smaller, at around US$1,200 million, than in 1971
or 1972. The first half of 1973 saw a continuation of the strong in-
flow of foreign capital into Brazil, predominantly in the form of finan-
cial credits, and, as in the past few years, this capital inflow exceeded
the current account deficit, resulting in a substantial accumulation of
foreign exchange reserves, which reached US$6.6 billion, the equivalent
of about 11 months? imports, at the end of 1973. These reserves provide
a cushion of international liquidity expecially needed because of heavy
short- and medium-term debt service payments and would give the authori-
ties adequate time to adjust their economic policy in case of adverse
balance of payments developments. In mid-1972, concerned about both the
term structure of external debt and the inflationary effects of reserve
accumulation, the authorities began to alttempt to limit the inflow of
financial credits. The minimum maturity of financial credits was ex-
tended to six, then eight, and ultimatelyr to ten years. These measures
proved partly successful and the net inflow in the first half of 1973,
US$1.3 billion, was lower than that in the second half of 1972, US$1.8
billion. The lengthening of minimum matuirities for financial credits
apparently induced some foreign firms to switch to direct investment,



which increased sharply.  Tn September the Government took even sterner
measures to limit inflows of financial credits by imposing a 0% reserve
reqairement on cruzeiros generated by new financial credits while per-
mitting existing credits to be renewed for a minimum maturity of ten
years. This measure virtually halted the inflow of new financial credits
during the fourth quarter of 1973. However, in view of the higher import
costs due to increased oil prices and the uncertain condition of the
wor.Ld capital market, the authorities repealed the L40% reserve require-
ment in January 1971, while leaving the minimum term at ten years to
assure an adequate flow of funds on acceptable terms.
9.        The recent increases in world petroleum prices will have
strong direct and indirect consequences for the future growth of Brazil.
During recent years Brazil has become increasingly dependent upon ex-
ternal sources of petroleum, which now- supply three-fourths of its re-
auirements, and is now the heaviest importer of oil of all the less
developed countries. The near-term direct impact of increased oil prices
wil-' be strong, but should prove manageable.  Latest tentative estimates
indicate it will add about US$1.5 billion to the oil import bill for 1974,
an :lncrease of 50% over our earlier estimate.  The Government is taking
measures to lessen the long-term impact of oil price increases by raising
domestic prices of petroleum products, carrying out an investment program
which emphasizes hydroelectric power and rail transport, and beginning
to clevelop alternative sources of energy (shale oil and atomic power).
10.       Because Brazil has become increasingly integrated into the
world economy, its growth performance is now linked closely to the state
of the economies of the industrialized countries. Insofar as the energy
crisis affects their economic well-being, it also affects Brazil's ex-
port; growth prospects and the potential for continued high levels of
capital flows from the industrialized countries to Brazil.   Despite these
uncertainties, Brazil's export prospects are generally favorable and its
foreign exchange reserves are ample so that high rates of growth can be
sustained, although some deceleration from the recent records can be
expe!cted.  However, at acceptable rates of growth Brazil is certain to
continue to have a sizeable resource gap, and mobilization of large
flows of official external long-term capital should play an important
role in financing the current account deficit if the debt service burden
is t.o remain manageable. It is estimated that the average ansnual inflow
of cffi^ial medi, um- and long-term capital required for the years 197L4
to 197) will be approximately US$1.9 billion, or almost twice the average
annual medium- and long-term official capital inflow for the years 1971
to 1973. While the official loan capital needed to support Brazil's
growth targets is substantial, the direct import needs of most public
investment projects are relatively low, reflecting the ability of the
domestic capital goods industry to compete successfully under interna-
tiornal competitive bidding and the low direct foreign exchange component
of many projects with strong social impact.   Hence, an appreciable part
of official external financing should be made available to cover domestic
expebnditures.



11.       By the end of 1973, 13razil's total. external delt (public alnd
private) probably exceeded US$11.S billion, of which over US$7 bilioll
was in the form of financial credi-ts.  The ai'orementioned rucenLcasllr(
extending the minimum term of financial credits and virtually eli- in1ning
short-term credits are having a J'avorable impact on debt strUcture.  V)-
tween March 1972 and March 1')73, the prcportion o' the debt due withi
two years f'ell from hO% to 3L,. NevertheLess, the de'bt servi.ce raliu
I'or 1973, including all registered external debt, hut netting outl se';'0 
payments received on Brazilian loans to other countries, is estima bed at.
38%. It should be noted that this debt service rat:io inclhdes so'v;,
on all public and private debt; the ratio f'or public and pb LicLy s. L r;s -
teed debt alone would be very mnuch lower.  Nonetheless, tLhe  act. renm
that Brazil's external debt is large and its deht service obll;at iorns
are high. However, the very large f'oreign exchange rcser%-:e ,a 
over the past several years ensure that Brazil will have the liouidit.y
to meet its debt service obligations in the short. term, while the coun-
try's record of high caliber financial management provides grounds for
conf'idence in the maintenance of' creditworthiness over the longer run.
On the assumptions that exports increase by about 180 a year in nominal
terms between 1973 and 1979 and that the average maturity of financiaL
credits does not f'all below six years, the debt service ratio i. e-pected
to decline substantially over the next several years and Brazil is cn-
sidered creditworthy f'or continued Bank lending.
12.       As a result of the trends in the Brazilian economy in rece-at.
years and of' careful economic management, there has been a remar-:able
broadening and deepening of the country's productive base and its in-
frastructure as well as a strengthening of its external sector. How-
ever, despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is stfill a
country with a relatively low per capita income, about USVi46h (Bank
Atlas for 1971), a very unequal distribution of income and ex'ens:ive
poverty.  The Brazilian Government believes that the poverty and dual:ism
which af'flict the country can be ameliorated only if high rates o' eco-
nomic growth are sustained, permitting absorption of the economically
marginal population into the expanding modern sector. Within the conLe::t
of rapid growth, the Government has committed itself to using the con-
siderable savings it generates for programs which have a social orienta-
tion and transfer resources from the more developed to the less developed
regions of the country. These programs fall into two broad categories:
regional development programs for the Northeast, Amazon and Center-West
designed to bring about a fuller utilization of the country's land and
natural resources, encourage expansion of the agricultural fron'ier andl
promote industrialization of less developed areas; and soc-ial develop)-
ment programs in public health and nutrition, water and sewerage, lo-i-
income housing, education and social welfare, inst:ituted to .roaden tle
distribution of and improve access to the benefits of economic growtih.



PART I:r- AN   3i GROUP OUi§K?ATTOS III i'RAZ U,
'Gan:: o C' -t.,on
l3.  `~yarc'l -, 1)71i, I.r.z.i'. i,d r(  Lve  ns, e -oci ( .
;nou    ; t to UIS$1 ,l?.' ri mill.ion, ol which 31 jL ir nit. 1li V  .
:ur (ed. Du1rrnfr FY0, tiLrou,-h FY69  11                   cntsemeT ('::av r('d on  ;
-..on cr. year, incrreas-in1r- to U.$)4  i iiL11i on, in jus$l  I 1i; >f
oS$:j-;L3.7 r Llli,on in FY72,  (1 US$1'7') milloi,  r 1  l t  . .
T.0             trtho n   _ Y y they ..erp US$1 Bt '  ni i-on.  ils  l.:I s  ;.ni
-o :ncrease durintr the ne.t few yerr:.  Arinex 1i contains - 2nYP.r stc
.en- of BanIc loans as of MLarch 31, 17)l. ..nd not.es or the e   . on
ongoinpC projects.
i)i.      Bank lending to Brazil was very acti-.e iLn FY72, when sev;n
loans w,re approved totalli.ng US$ih7 milli o (includin.'~ three large
loans to the steel industry).   In FY73, six loans amountinp to U1'$17.i
mill in, 'ere approved. A loan of US,L2t, milllion for the Itmibiara  rdra-
electr r project has been the only loan to Brazil anproved thus far in
FY7-7  A loan of US$36 million for a water supply and sewea;e' pa -oJic-(tr
in the State of Minas Gerais is being presented to the ixrcit-ree IDircbors
at -the same time as the present loan.   At an advancedi stage o! preparrlt 'on
are an education project in the Northeast and North, a railiTjay r ei.i 1-
tat-Lon program, a project to improve the port or Recife, and, a 1i'' 
highway construction program.   We hope to present tho.se pro jcts to hti
Executive Directors in the next several, months.   We are a:!.so wor!'inrr with
the Brazilians on the preparation o" an integrated rural dcv<elolienl.
project in the Northeast Statc: of Rio Grande do Norte, an :ir iciltural'
develonrnpent project in the lower Sao Francisco Valley, a se0tlcmen:ll.
project in the Amazon reg,ion, an agricultixral research pro-re.n. a .:-.1 ir
livestoc' development project. and - nutrition project.    IJe hae also
been requested to part..cipate in the financing of the next pha.-.e o. thi
expansion of the flat steel induistry, and we are also consider-inof assi -
tance to small- and medium-sized industry.
15.       Brazil's total medium- ard lonfg-term external dei:;t (excludin-
financial credits) outstanding and disb1ursed at the end oi 1      ,72  as
UJS$....C, bi'llio-n.  lThe Ban  heIld, at the ed o- -L-72, 12.2), of the mediur:-
d 4 ' n,, 'er ndebt cutst-andIng. and the Bank's share of the service on
this debt was about 6.j5/2i. If present trends continue as exuected, <hc
Banc's share in total mediumu- and long-term deht. outstandinc will. in-
crease to about 1)b     1970), while tnhe s(;re :in debt serv-ice   ol  i-
crease to about 10%.
IFC Operations
16.       IFC has comrmitted more ifinanclial resources to Brazil <han -,o
any other country.   Since 19;'7. IFC has made 22 cormitments to :r=IzA 1.
iotallmn,r~ nl$1112.1 million, oT which US$0d.8 million has been renaid
and US$1t-.6r million sold.  Of tie ',.lance of US$73.7 million, U5Q113.()
million represent's loans and US$20.` mi]lion ecA ry. A summary of lFCt r
investments cr. tzo M,iarch 31, 1974, is given in Annex II.



-7-
Lending Strategy
17.       In its lending to Brazil, the Rank has been supporting sever,1l
important objectives of' the Government's dcvelopment policy.  One obj(&(-
tive has been the identification and support o.' pro,jects desi,-n(Ad to
increase productivity and incomes in the lowest incomc se rment; oK Li&'
population, to broaden the economic opportunit-i es open to tlioso frnup:-
and to alleviate human inisery. Project pr-eparation ei f'ort .i in Lii ii-
have been intensified, and we hope anm increasing number of' -oanIs wilth
this objective will be coming forward to support B3r.;zil 's -dulcat ion,
nutrition, water supply and sewera-e and rural developmenL prot-r-ms.
Experience shows that projects in these area.s are especially di
and time-consuming to prepare, require close participaLion bvy Ian  st
through all stages of the project's life, and are usuaLlv rela't:iJ.ye'
small in size. Other external developmernt lenders are also acti vel'Y
seeking to help projects of this nature. For ti-jese reasons, only a
limited number of projects in these areas will be available and suita0le
for Bank financing in the near f'uture. While the concentrated ef'forts
now bei!ng made along these lines should Eventually result in many more
projects of this nature, in the long run, for some time to come they
will constitute a relatively small share of total BanTk lending tn kraz>-.
18.       Institutional development and policy reform, designed inter
alia to help ensure that public savings are used economically arid that.
an adequate volume of savings is available i'or applications in the
social sector, have been a second major objective in Bank leriding to
Brazil. They play a parti;cularly important role in our lending in the
transportation sector and, specifically, the railw ay rehablilitation
program which is now being appraised.  The strengthening oi development
finance institutions w ould be a major obljective if we move forwiard wit:-;
the proposed program of lending for small- and medium-si ;ed industry.
In agriculture, our 'Lending for livestock development has served to
introduce modern methods of ranch management, within the frameeworl. ox'
a supervised credit program. In both industrial and agricul tural cr(eit.'
our lending is linked to the application of progressively mnore realistic
rates of interest. We also expect to l-end to support agricultural re-
search in the Northeast and to strengthen the federal mechanism for
coordinating and supervising agricultural research.
19.       A third objective in Bank lending to Brazil, especially in
the power, steel and highway sectors, is to help provide necessary
long-term external capital.  In this regard, the Bank. seeks to play
a complementary role to that of other lenders, supplementinfg their
resources in individual operations and f'inancing activities that titey
are unwilling to finance. Brazil has needed and will continue to
need a very large volume of medium- and long-term loan capital inr'lows
to sustain rapid grovrth and achieve its employment creation and reion
development objectives.
20.       A fourth lending objective for the Bank has been to hel-p ease
the foreign exchange constraint on Brazilian developrnent b1y upporting
projects designed to increase Brazil's export capacity and, where economic,



t O S  S' . -ute domestic n.rouuc. ion iFor irmnorts. Supo)ort ol  a1
.teel i mlus t.ry. for  :arinle i.; hel]pJnr rir:azol dievelop se 1-..;u Vii
iLn a  c        Inmod i wh i ch eaul be produ oo cJti C i.J ently i rl ,ra,i I 1 !
the cou!nbrv r s 5oun ti lul su7ply 0  ! i-'  .l-O! or( c d Li:
it., :Lr:te nJt ma r>-e L 
21        The B'ank support o-' the lrazilian electric poi_er cecin  :L,'i;
OL the Paulo Afonso IV project in particul.ar, re cflcts t c. 
in several ways. By giving continuing suipport to an electric     t.ai
reginie that, assures a hizh degree of solvency in the power ,e  r.C L
sub5stantial cash generation contributing to net.- investment. T  arlr-.
is helning Brazil realize its enormous pok.er -inveStment nec .iw ithlou1
undlue recourse to external canital.  Our presence, maore-'e i  wac.i.litates
Brazil's access to other sources of external carita.`, wit.i a dea.-.nig
partic-ipation by the 3an;. itself.  Finally, by supportin- poc' cr develop-
merit in ',Aie 'Northeast, the Bank is helping to assre thre ade(Juate 1X>-
pli-es of electricity that are needed ,or thc development o" th.'e .ooure
region in the country.
PART III - TEl ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR
22..      The proposed loan to CHESF for the Paulo Afonso IV hydroelectric
power project would be the Bank's twenty-seventh for the development of
the powier sector in Brazil.  The Bank made one previous loan to CHESF inl
19'50 to help finance CHFSF's Paulo Afonso I hydroelectric power projec.
(Loan 25-sR).
23.       Brazil is fortunate to be endowed with one of the world's
largest hydroelectric potentials which make the country less dependent
on petroleum as a source of electric power than many other countries.
The estimated potential is 92,000 NW in the South, Southeast and North-
east regions where rivers have been surveyed and where most of Brazil's
population live, and about 60,000 MW in the remote parts of the country.
So far less than 10% of the total potential has been developed. In
19,72, of the total installed capacity of 13,500 MW, 11,000 MAW or 81%
was hydroelectric capacity and the remaining 2,500 MAW or 19',', -thermal
cao)acJt   Brazil's first atomic thermal power plant is now under con-
.4. ., ., 4 .  .
The Power Sector
2h.,      The power sector is operated by a number of Federal- and
State-owned companies, and one large private company (Light-Servicos
de Eletricidade, S.A.). The sector is administered by the Ministry
of Mines and Energy through its Department of Water and Electric EnerQr
(DNAEE; which performs regulatory functions, including granting licenses
for hycroelectric sites, assiMning concession areas, setting tariffs and
approv-ing expansion plans.



2.5.      Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A. (ELETROBRAS) is the
Government agency under the Ministry of MIines and Energy in charge
of planning, technical coordination, financing and administration or
the electric power sector. Through its four regional companies,
ELETROSUL, FURNAS, CHESF and ELETRONORTE, it is also responsible for
generating schemes affecting more than one state, high voltage (LIV)
and extra-high voltage (EHV) transmission systems aimed at the inte-
gration of state systems, and transmission systems related to hi-
national power projects, in particular, the proposed Itaipu project
on the Parana River beetween Paraguay and Brazil.  For plarnning pur-
poses, the power sector is divided into Fi.ve regions:  South, SouthaF(as'..
Central-West, Northeast and North. 'The cDordinating i'unctions of
ELETROBRAS have become important particularly in the South and Southe.ls
regions which account f'or 90% of' the to'tal power consumptioni o.;' hc
country. At the time of the latest power generation loan t.o Brazi',
for the Itumbiara hydroelectric pro;ject ('Loan 923-B3i), the Bank and the
Government agreed on the need to coordinate the planning of electric
power generation and transmission in these regions, and the Government
agreed to submit, through ELETROBRAkS, an updated study of the powrer
generation and transmission reouirements in the South and Southeast
regions up to 1981.  This study was submitted to the Bank in January
1974, and is satisfactory.  The Bank, however, has suggested that
additional studies be made to take into account long-run trends for
fuel prices.  ELETROBRAS has also prepared a satisfactory power exfpan-
sion program for the Northeast region.
26.       The growth of the electric powe.r sector has been in line with
the high growth rate of the economy. Installed capacity increased f'rom
5~,200 14H in 1960 to 11,200 MW in 1970 and 13,500 MW at the end of' 1.)72.
During the past five years, electricity consumption in Braz-il grevJ at
over 11% per year, and in 1973 amounted to ¼i7,000 GWh. The grow!th rat;.
however, was much higher in the Northeast where consumption ;;as e:-pnndJi.n
f'rom a lower base than in the more developed regions.  Durin,, 1 ;'7..
pow:er consumption in the Northeast with an annual per capi.ta COSUr1P-:-f- 
of 200 IcWh increased bDy 20;', while in the Southeast with a -,)r capln±a
consumption of 970 kWh it increased by l0;.
Northeast Development and CHESF
27.       CHESF is virtually the sole supplier of electricity in tne
Northeast region of Brazil.  CHESF's concession area includes nine
Northeastern states and is vast both in terms of area and population.
Together, the nine states occupy 18% of the total area of Brazil or
about 1.5 million sq km (larger than the combined area of Portugal,
Spain, France, Switzerland and Italy). The LO million inhabitants of
these states are also the poorest in Brazil. In 1969, the per capita
income of the region was only 48% of the national average. Until the
1950's, government programs to aid the Northeast consisted mostly of
constructing water works to temper the ravages of drought on agricul-
tural production. After the 19E8 drought, the Northeast Regional
Development Agency (SUDENE) was created and the emphasis of the Govern-
ment program was shifted to more comprehensive regional development
efforts.



- 10 -
28.       Du2ing the l')6C s the thrust of the Uovernmernt's pro<ram t.a-
on heary in-estment in ini'rastructure, mair'ly transport ancl poiJcr or d
on industrialization which was stimrulated throu-h an in-cniioli  a\ LII-
centive scheme.  The resulting economic girow-th in the Northleast, van
impressi-ve by most standards.  However, those livin,- in riLral arecs a'
the sussistence level did not bhenefit muaci f'rom the G)ovornnri!ti's C''l'Or.,
although their situation was alleviated to some degree )y inter- or
intra-re-gional migration.  Until very recently, the industriali_ation
progran -as not able to ;enerate sufficient employment opportuniLv o
keen nace with the rapid growth of the ur'an la'bor l'orce. Th}is, a prool
oi' underemployed labor accumulated in the larg,e urban centers o' tve
Northeast, such as Salvador and Recif'e.
29.       Recognizing the limit.-d absorptive capacity of la)or by
industry, the Government added two new dimensions to its policy; labor
mobilitv and agriculture. The new programs attempt to ease the agri-
cultural underemployment in the Northeast by removing workers from this
area to new agricultural frontiers and by increasing the productivity
of the remaining workers. The Bank is actively supporting the prepara-
tion of a number of projects designed to further these objectives and
these may offer opportun-ities for Bank financial assistance.
30.       Despite the shift in government policies, manufacturing industry
is likely to remain the leadin; sector for regional growth.  The indus-
trialization program broadened the economic base and exposed the region
to a modernization process.  Local entrepreneurship was stimulated 'oy
managerial experience which was brought by southern firms into their sub-
sidiaries in the Northeast. During 1967-72, the net domestic product of
the Northeast grew at 6.4% per year compared with 9.9% per year for the
nation as a whole. The relatively slow growth of the region was due
mainly to the slow growth of the agricultural sector whose net domestic
product grew at only 0.1% per year compared to 5.6% per year for the
nation. On the other hand, industrial growth at 11.7% per year was almost
up to the very high national average of 12.5% per year.  In 1973, the re-
gional product of the Northeast, grew by an estimated 13% compared to 10.5%
for the country as a whole. Concurrently, unemployment and underemployment
in the Northeast have been diminishing, indicating the prospects for higher
productivity and income for the Northeast.
31.       The increased power supply by CHESF would be a vital element
4n -he Government's continued effort to develop the Northeast and to
decrease the regional income disparity between the Northeast and the
rest of the country, in particular, the Southeast and the South. Between
1964 and 1972, power sales by CHESF increased at an average rate of' lL%
per yea.r from 1,600 Gwh to h,500 GWh. Between 1?73 and 1982, it is pro-
jected to increase at an average annual rate of 13.79 per year from
5,400 G,0Jh to 17,200 GWh.
32.       In 1972, CHEOF sold') 3' o!' its sower to 13 state-owned distr; 0,-
tioni comnanies and the remainiri g 7 (l- di oe ! ly to large industrial conswner s.
Industrial consumers account-,ed !or I < o0 total consumpti-on lollowied biy
residential conFsinmers wil 1 Ni:;. commercial users with L,;; anrd other cateŽ'or i (Žs



- 11 -
with 19%. The demand pattern is closely related to the population which
is very unevenly distributed; the area near the coast, the Eastern Sector,
which occupies about half of the Northeast, uses about )7, or the total
energy consumed in the region, while the Western Sector uscs only al)out
3%. The proportion of the population in the Northeast serviced witih
electric power is still very low. In IW70, 18.7% o.f.' the populat.ion had
access to electricity and by 1)80 this is expected to increase to 28.7P.
The Government and the Bank are holding discussions on possible Bank
participation in financing power distribution projects -in the Northeast,
with particular emphasis on lower income families. The increased power
generation of' CHESF would supply any additional demand created d  an i:-
tensified power distribution program f'or residential consiumers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The Sao Francisco River has a total length of 2,660 km. Starting
from the highlands near Belo Horizonte in MIinas Gerais State, it flows
northward for 1,750 km and then turns eastward to flow into the Atlantic
Ocean. Rainfall varies from 1,600 mm per -year at the head of' the river to
400 mm per year in Sobradinho.  For most of the 1,000 km that it flows
through the State of Bahia, the Sao Francisco River is the main water chan-
nel in the great drought polygon of Brazil.
3h.       The current project is another step in developing the hydroelec-
tric potential of the Sao Francisco River at the Paulo Afonso Falls totallinr
about 6,500 MW.  In 1950, the Bank helped CHESF finance the first generating
station at Paulo Afonso. Subsequently, the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) assisted CHESF with loans to Paulo Afonso II and III, as well as a
plant at Moxoto, upstream from Paulo Afonso, the latter being constructed
under CHESF's fourth expansion plan.
35.       CHESF's fifth expansion plan, of which the Paulo Afonso IV project
is a part, is designed to meet the expected power demand in the Northeast
until 1982.  ELETROBRAS made a formal request for f'inancing this plan to the
IDB in July 1972. Because the financing needs exceeded what IDB was pre-
pared to lend, IDB, and subsequently the Government of Brazil, invited IBRD
participation. The Government sought the assistance of the two banks f'or
the purchase of equipment and not for civil works for which adequate local
resources are available. A joint IBRD/IDB appraisal mission visited Brazil
in August 1973. Negotiations with CHESF and the Government were held be-
tween April 29 and May 7, 19Th. Annex III contains a description of tne
loan and the project. The Appraisal Report (396a-BR) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Description
36.       The project consists of the main elements of the fifth expansion
program, namely, the Sobradinho Dam and Reservoir; the Paulo Afonso IV under-
ground hydroelectric power station; transmission facilities; associated sub-
stations; project related equipment, such as inspection vehicles; and training
for the construction, operation and maintenance of an EHV transmission system.



- 12 -
37.       The Sobradinho Dam, under construction since June 1)73, will
be located on the Sao Francisco River about 470 km upstream t'rom f'aulo
Afonso. It wil create a reservoir with a gross capacity ol' 36.2 billion
(36.2 x 109) m  and will inundate an area of' about l, 150 sq kin.  i tls
usable storage capacity of 29.4 billion m3 will be used to increase the
minimium river flow from  1,150 m3/sec to 2,060 m-'/sec and to raise thit
firm annual energy generation by about 8,300 GWh at the generating plants
currently in operation and underway, and about 27,000 GWh at aLl generating
plants installed and to be installed downstream.
38.       The Paulo Afonso IV plant wiill be located about 2 km downstream
f'rom the existing Paulo Afonso plants.  A portion of the river flow will
be diverted to it from the existing Paulo Afonso and Moxoto plants by a
bypass canal and forebay.
39..      The transmission system required by Paulo Afonso IV is provided
for partly in the fourth expansion program now underway and partly in the
proposed project. The fourth expansion program includes two 500 kV trans-
mission circuits between Paulo Afonso and Salvador and one 500 kV circuit
between Paulo Afonso and Recife. These lines, initially operating at
230 kV, plus nine 230 kV circuits to the Fortaleza, Recife and Salvador
areas, provide the transmission capacity to deliver the power generated
at existing Paulo Afonso and Moxoto plants to the main load centers of'
the Northeast (see map, IBRD 10807, attached).
The Borrower
0o.       The borrower would be CHESF, an autonomous Government company^<
established in 1948 and a subsidiary of ELETROBRAS.   CHESF is responsicle
for the generation and transmission of electric power in nine states o'
Northeast Brazil. Only 3% of the industries in the Northeast provide
their own power.  CHESF's power system, with 11,000 krm of transmission
lines, is independent of the systems o_ the more highly developed South-
east and South regions, although future connection with the Southeast
region at Vitoria in Espirito Santo is under consideration.   CHESF's
presently installed capacity, mostly at Paulo Afonso I-TII stations,
is 1,300 MW with another 976 IMW under construction.
Li.       The company's headquarters are located in Rio de Janeiro, and
operating offices are maintained in Paulo Af'onso, Salvador and Recife.
Since CHE.'SF uses its ouw forces for an important part of' its construction
wvork and has a vast concession area, the total of about 14,000 em-
ployees appears reasonable.   CIMSF's management is good.  Its external
audi-;ors are satisfactory.
42.       CIESF has a well-conceived training program budgeted in 1 ;7:
at US$_71,000 equivalent.  It covers all areas: technical, legal,
accounting, L'inance, saL'ety and general administrative duties as wvel)
as suoervFi.on at all levels.



- 13 -
l>3.      CHESF has operated its generating system satisfactorily; its
operating performance has not been so good, however, in the transmission
system.  Unusually high transmission losses, about 13% in 1972, have icon
experienced on the 230 kV lines, due to delays in expanding the system.
stemming from ELETROBRAS' decision to adopt A00 kV for neT I1IIV Linos in-
stead ot' the original WOO kV. Energy losses are expected to ,go down to
about 1L,4 once the 500 kV double circuits between Paulo Alfonso and Salv:ildor
and between Paulo Afonso and Recife are installed.
Engineering and Construction
)lU.      The Sobradinho Dam and Reservoir were first studied by the
Government's Superintendencia do Vale do Sao Francisco (SUVALE). FinaL
engineering design was done by the firm Hidroservice of Sao Paulo, with
the assistance of various organizations and consultants. The construc-
tion contract was awarded to a Brazilian firm, SERVIX, after domestic
competitive bidding, and construction started in June 1)73. The filling
of the reservoir is expected to start in January 1977. The bedrock is
of' excellent cuality so that 1ith adequate construction methods and
management, the Sobradinho Dam should be constructed on schedule and
within current cost estimates.
4L5.      The Paulo Afonso IV power station, bypass canal and foreb0ay
were designed by SOFRELEC of France with the participation of CHESF.
The consultants recommended an underground powerhouse, and CHESF,
which built the underground powerhouses for existing Paulo Afonso
nlants, decided to construct the new power station bLy force account.
Preliminary work started in mid-1973 and excavation for the bypass
canal and the underground powerhouse started in early 17L. The
installation of the four 375 KW generating units will start in 1)70,
and the units are expected to be comm!issioned between 1)78 and 1)-32.
46.       The transmission lines and substations have been designed 'oy
Power Techrnology Inc. (PTI) of the US with the participation of' CHESF.
The transmission lines will be built by contractors and the subs Lations
by CHESF by force account.  The construction of the 500 kV lines f'rom
Paulo Afonso to the Recife II stubstation will start in mid-1)75, for
completion by end-1977.  The construction of the 230 kV lines and sub-
stations will start in the beginning of 1975 for completion by end-1)7Y.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
47.       The total cost of the project, as estimated in January l97L, e::-
cluding interest during construction, is US$692.6 million equivalent With
estimated foreign exchange component of US$29)h.2 million equivalent. The
estimated cost of the Sobradinho Dam is based on the actual contract 'or
civil works in which price con-ingencies have been incorporated, and T.'hici;
provides an escalation formula to cover other cost increases as indicated
the official Brazilian indexes; plus 10% for physical contingencies; the
cost of land and relocation of the population from the flooded area reilects
CHESF's estimate plus 15% for physical contingencies. The cost estimate



of the Paulo Afonso IV power station, transmission l'acilities atnd misccl-
laneous components include physical contingencies oL' 1i'' f'or civil] worlus
and 10% for equipment.  In addition, they contain price contingencies at,
the rate of 7% per annwa for civil works of' Paulo Afonlso IV and price
contingencies for equipment at an averagre annual rate of 8.7:. Since
Sobradinho will benef'it all downstream hydroelectric schemes, its costs
should be allocated among them. The total cost of the Pallo Afonso IV
power station and related transmission facilities, including aboout L40,
of the cost of Sobradinho, amounts to US$562.6 million equivalent or
about US$375 per kW of installed capacity.   This unit cost is reasonalle
f'or a plant of' this type.
L48.      CIESF plans to obtain a total of' US$223.1 million equivalent
from the Bank, IDB and bilateral financing sources. The remainder oi'
the project cost will derive from CHESF's internal cash generation and
loans from ELETROBRAS. The proposed Bank loan of US$81 million equi-
valent would finance transmission line equipment, some of the equipment.
for the 230 kV substations, miscellaneous enuipment and training. The
IDB would finance some equipment for the Paulo Afonso IV station, t.ie
equipment for the 500 kV substations, part of the equipment for the
230 kV substations and US$lL.6 million equivalent in interest durin-
construction. Each Bank would t'inance the f'oreign cost component o'
the engineering for that part of the transmission system it is financing.
Neither bank would finance civil wor'.s, whose cost will be met from
internal Brazilian resources.
The major items of equipment, namely, the turbines, generators
and large transformers, which are not made competitively in Brazil have
been selec'ed by CHESF for bilateral parallel financing.   Of the estimatcd
US$82.3 million cost of this equipment, CHESF plans to finance US$1O.J.
million in down payments from its own resources, and has arranged to ob)-
tain financing on reasonable terms from supplying countries for the re-
maining US$71.9 million. For this equipmernt, CHESF will conduct competitive
bidding among the suppliers in countries that agree to provide parallel
financing. In addition to making contacts with i'oreign embassies, CIESF
of'ficials visited Canada, Japan and the US in November 1)71 and Austria.
France, Germany, Italy, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK in February 'L i)(!
to request bilateral parallel financing.   So far, twelve countries have
sent letters of intent to CHESF agreeing to make such financin- availab'e.
50.       The Bank loan would be made to CIESF at 7-l/)i` interest .'or
20 years, including a L-l/2 year grace period.   The IDB loan will be
made at 8% interest for 20 years, including a 1-l/2 year grace period.
The potential sources of bilateral parallel financing have so -ar indi-
cated interest rates between 7-1/)4% and 7-1/2% with terms of 15 years,
including appropriate grace periods.
51.       The IDB's Board approved the US$841.8 million loan (their
largest ever) in December 173. The signing and effectiveness of' that
loan are contingent, respectively, on approval and effectiveness of' the
proposed Bank loan. The effectiveness of' the Bank loan would ie con-
tingent on the effectiveness of the IDB loan (see Section 3.01(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement).



Project Justification
52.       After examining several hydro alLernatives on the Sao Francisco
River, ELETROBRAS and CHESF, wiith the assistance of' consultant;s, deter-
mined that the most attractive alternative consists oi' building- the
Sobradinho Reservoir to fully regulate the Sao Francisco River and to
install at Paulo Afonso a fourth powerhouse (Paulo Afonso IV) with a
capacity of 1,500 MW. This alternative, the Paulo Ai'onso hydroelectric
project, was compared with:
a)  conventional thermal alternatives consistzing of oil-'ired
steam generating units to supply the system base load re-
quirements combined with gas turbines and the existing
hydroelectric stations: and
b) a nuclear alternative where the above-mentioned oil-lfired
units were replaced by pressurized light-water nuclear
reactors.
By comparing the present worth of the cost differential between the Paulo
Afonso IV and the thermal (oil or niiclear) alternatives, it was conc.lu-led
that the proposed project provides the required power supp.Ly for the
Northeast region at the minimurm cost.
53.       The rate of return on this project calculated on the basis oi
charges paid by consumers cariff plus sole tax)will be 23. 3A).
Financial Aspects
5l;.      In the nine-year period 197l-82, CHESF plans to spend about
US$1.7 billion on the construction of new generating and transmiss;ion
facilities, and its total fixed assets are expected to grow- at an
average annual rate of 1L4.8% . CHESF?s financing plan :f'or this period
assumes an lp return on remunerable investments (defined in Annex II,
Page 3 of' the Appraisal Report), Government grants and equity contri-
butions of about US$23)t.6 million, and almcist total reinvestment of
earnings. CHESF's financing requirements would be provided about 22.-'..
by net internal cash generation, 23.Lb% by existing and proposed foreign
borrowiings and 5t.14% by existing and proposed borrowings from ELETROBIRLA.SS.
CHESF's financing plan as detailed above :'s reasonable, particularly
with the support of the Federal Government; through ELETROBRAS. In the
event that CHESF did not have sufficient funds to assure the timely com-
pletion of the project, the Government would be committed to provide thlem,
either directly or through ELETROBRAS (see Section 2.0.3 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
55.       CESF's financial outlook is satisfactor,y. CIESF's financial
strength comes not only from adequate tariff legislation (see paragraph 2.06
of the Appraisal Report), but also f rom ELETROBRAS' willingness to convert
some of its loans into eouity and/or contribute fresh enuity as needed to
carry out CHISF's expawsion program and meet its financial oboligattions.



- 16 -
The Government would be committed, in the event C11ESF' did nmA oLte
sufficient funds to meet its f'inancial. oblligations, Lo provide tiin.m
either directly or through ELETROBRAS (see Section 2.03 of' tile draiL
Guarantee Agreement). CHESF would not incur new debt it by sach in-
currence total debt were to exceed 66-2/3% of CHESE's total l'ixed
assets less depreciation; it would also not incur new debt with an
original term of less than 10 years, if by doing so the total out-
standing principal of such debt were to exceed % of' its total 1 ixed
assets (see Section 5.07 of the draf't Loan Agreement).
56.       In its projections, CHESF has used an average annual depre-
ciation rate of about 2%.   Compared to t-ie rate used by similar lar_e
power companies in Brazil, this rate is lowq and theref'ore CHESF has
agreR,d to make a study of its depreciation practices and to discuss
with the Bank the results of such study within nine months of the
signing of the Loan Agreement (see Section 5.08 of' the drai't Loan
Agreement).
Disbursement and Procurement
57.       Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against appro-
priate documentation for the CIF cost of imported goods or the ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured goods and for the foreign exchange cost oa
training abroad. No disbursement would be made for expenditures made
prior to the signing of the Loan Agreement. The schedule of' disburse-
ment is given in Annex III.
58.       Procurement of the equipment to be financed by tuie Bank would
follow the Bank's Guidelines; the manufacturers whose bids contain com-
ponents manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the
bid being given a 15% margin of preference. Since Brazilian firms are
likely to win some of the bids, the Bank will be f'inancing some local
expenditures, estimated to be about US$20 million equivalent or about
one quarter of the loan.
Environmental Aspects
59.       The creation of the Sobradinho Reservoir will have two major
impacts on the environment:   Upstream of the dam, it will flood an area
of about L,150 sq km; and downstream, it will alter the natural flow o.
the river. In the Sobradinho Reservoir area, the land to be flooded is
of small agricultural value, but has about 11,000 families or 70,000
inhabitants, most of whom live by subsistence agriculture. An agreement,
signed in October 1973 by the Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Refor-ma
Agraria (INCRA), CHESF and ELETROBRAS, places upon INCRA and CHESF re-
sponsibility for relocating the people displaced by the reservoir.   CHESF
will resettle about 3,000 families who live in or near four municipal
district seats (Remanso, Sento Se, Pilao Arcado and Casa Nova) with funds
provided by ELETROBRAS and the Government.   CHESF has already purchased



- 17 -
land and prepared plans for the new municipal district seats. About
2,000 families are expected to leave the area or to be given the
opportunity to work on ongoing and future construction work by CHESF.
60.       INCRA plans to use two different approaches.   The first con-
sists of including about 3,000 of the more highly skilled and adaptable
families, who choose to migrate, in colonization schemes which it is
organizing elsewhere in the region. The second consists of resettling
the remaining 3,000 families, poorer and less educated than the first
group, on the shores of the new reservoir. Although the poor quality
of the land around the reservoir and the periodic receding of the shores
by up to several kilometers will make farming difficult, many of the
people have indicated their wish to resettle on the shores of the reser-
voir. CHESF and INCRA will ensure that the living conditions of these
families would be no harsher than they are now, and will assist in further
relocation if and when the families so desire.
61.       The relocation task described above is complex; it will require
detailed planning if the reservoir area is to be evacuated on time and
the affected population is to receive proper attention. The project cost
includes US$31 million towards compensation and relocation of inhabitants
in the reservoir area. The Brazilian Government and CHESF agreed to com-
plete appropriate resettlement plans for review and comment by the Bank
within nine months after the signing of the Loan Agreement (see Sections
3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement and 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agree-
ment).
62.       A consultant retained by CHESF studied the ecological impact
of the creation of the Sobradinho Reservoir. In the light of his recom-
mendations, the Brazilian Government and CHESF would forward to the Bank
for comment within nine months of the signing of the loan plans for:
a) minimizing the possible spread of plague, schistosomiasis
and malaria in the area of the reservoir;
b) minimizing undesirable effects of the decaying vegetation
on the biochemical properties of the reservoir; and
c) promoting fish conservation and production in the reservoir.
(See Sections3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement and 3.03 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement.)
63.       The Sao Francisco River downstream of Sobradinho may be divided
into two segments:
a) the Middle Sao Francisco which flows over a dist;ance of
about 560 km from Sobradinho to Pao de Acucar; and
b) the Lower Sao Francisco which flows over a distance of
about 220 km from Pao de Acucar to the mouth.



- 18 -
The effects of doubling the minimum river flow on the Middle Sao Francisco
have not yet been established, but are not likely to be serious. CHESF
would, with the agreement of the Brazilian Government, complete for review
and comment by the Bank, within 15 months of the signing of the Loan Agree-
ment, a study which would establish these effects; and within 9 months
thereafter, a plan for reasonably compensating the people (see Sections
3.08(a) of the draft Loan Agreement and 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agree-
ment).
64.       The Lower Sao Francisco comprises a portion of hilly terrain
which is only sparsely populated and another portion near the mouth of
the river with floodplains which sustains a fairly dense population umder
a system of relatively few large landholdings cultivated by sharecroppers
and laborers. About 15,000 ha of floodplains are under rice cultivation.
Each year, water is trapped on these lowlands (known as varzeas) and as
it recedes, rice is planted. Of the 15,700 ha of rice land that are at
present flooded and uncovered in four out of every five years, 3,100 ha
would be permanently covered by low water after the Sobradinho Dam is
built, while 5,900 ha would not be flooded at all.   Ihus, 9,000 ha of
land now sustaining about 9,000 families would be lost to rice cultiva-
tion in the absence of corrective measures.
65.       A polder project already under construction by SUVALE will
protect 1,800 ha of this land from loss. For the remaining 7,200 ha,
an emergency project, comprising dikes and pumping stations, has been
prepared by SUVALE assisted by consultants and staff from the FAO/Bank
Cooperative Program. These works will be the first stage of a wider
program for intensive development of the floodplains, and would enable
present conditions of flooding and uncovering to be maintained (with a
higher degree of certainty). The emergency project would adecuately
cope with the effects of the Sobradinho Dam in this area. The wider
area development program to follow the emergency project would be
designed to increase agricultural production in the area, especiLlly
by small farmers. Both the emergency project and the wider area de-
velopment program may be submitted to the Bank for financing.
66.       The Brazilian Government agreed:
a)  to complete for review and comment by the Bank, within
nine months of the signing of the Guarantee Agreement,
the engineering study and cost estimates of' the Lower
Sao Francisco emergency project; and
b)  to prepare for review and comment by the Bank, within
15 months after the signing of the Guarantee Agreement,
a comprehensive development program for the Lower Sao
Francisco (see Sections 3.04 and 3.05 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
67.       With the above measures, the Government and CHESF will have
taken all reasonable steps to prevent undue damage to the environment
from the construction of the project.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS ANiD AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Companhia Hidro Eletrica
do Sao Francisco and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank, and the Report of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. In addition
to the features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements which are
referred to in paragraphs 51, 54, 55, 56, 61, 62, 63 and 66 of this re-
port, the following event of suspension and default has been included,
namely, that a change in the Brazilian legislation has been made, which,
in the judgment of the Bank, will affect the carrying on of CHESF's
business or the maintenance of the tariffs that CHESF needs for its opera-
tions. This clause has become standard in power loans to Brazil (see
Sections 8.02 and 8.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 22, 197T






ANNEX I
%-,,=1of 4
COUNTRY DATA -  Z1IL
Area                Population                                         Density 2er
75L2,000 km'              miilion (mid-1970)                               1 per km2
33.5 per km   f arabLe land
Socibl Indicators
ReTe-repce romD8rqtona
Braz Ll                  Re7   n   Co.oa    eria
19O   1970       1*90        1970        1970
GNP per Capita USS (Atlas basis)                               *-           120        670       1,760        120
Demoiaraphic
Crude Birth Rate (per thousand)                                41.5        36.9       44.5        16.8        h9.6
Crude Death Rate (per thousAnd)                                ii.5         8.1        9.3         9.7        24.9
Infant Mortality Rate (per thousand live births)              180         110         67.2        29.2       165.0
Life Expectancy at birth (years)                             *-            63.1       61.8        72.0        37.0
Gross Reproduction Rate 1                                     -.            1.9        3.2         1.3         3.3
Population Growth Rate J7                                       3.1        2.9         3.5         0.8        2.5
Populntion OG.owth Rate-Urban                                   5.5        5.2         4.8         1.9        5.0
Age Structure (percent)
0 - 14                                                      42.7        41.7       46.2        24.14       44.9
15 - 614                                                     51.0        541.5      50.1        65.3        52.9
65 and Ove.-                                                  3.3         3.8        3.7        10.3         2.2
Dependency Ratio 3/                                            85.2       83.5        99.6        S3.1       89.0
Population Deisity per sq. km.                                  8.4       11.2        26.0       178.0        74.0
Urban Populat:.on as Percent of Total                          45.1        55.9       59.5        53.0        22.8
Family Planning: No. of Acceptors Cumulative (thousand)      ..           250
No. of Users (% of Married Women)          ..             1.6
Emplosimnt
Total Labor lorce (thousands)                              22,65L.3    29,51h.3   15,900.0    19,534.0    21,051h.0
Percentage Employed in Agriculture                           53.7        14.2       116.5       20.8        69.8
PereentAge Overtly Unemployed                              ..             2.4     *-             3.1
Income Distribution
Percent of K,netary Income Received by Lowest 20%               3.5         3.2        3.7      ..             7.0
Percent of K,netary Income Received by Highest 5%              27.7        34.9       28.5      *-            38.L
health and Nutrition
Population pnr Physician                                    2,170       2,120aJ    1,820         553      24,032
Population par Nursing Person                                ..         2,890                  ..          2,530
Population per Hospital Bed                                   275         280        498          99       1,867
Per Capita C.lorie Supply as % of Requirements                 98.0W     102.0       108.2       118.0        90.0
Per Cnpita Protein Supply, Total (grams per day) 5/            60.cW       63.0       66.3        88.o        59.0
Of Which, .lnimal and Pulse                                 (37.6)1/    (40.6)      28.2        42.4        13.8
Death Rate 1-h Years 6J                                      ..          ..            8.9         1.1
Education
Adjustedl/ P'rimary School Enrollment Ratio                    73.4        96.3      105.0       108.0        36.0
Adjusted2/ Secondary School Enrollment Ratio                    7.4        18.6       20.0        511.0        3.0
Years of Schooling Provided, First and Second Level            lL.0        11.0       12          13          14.0
Vocational Enrollmant as % of Secondary School Enrollmnt       24.0      ..           13.0        25.1         9.
Adult Literacy Rate %                                          60.6        68.o        67.3d/     90.7
Housinin
Average No. of Persons Per Room (Urban)                       2. ..                     6.9        1 128
Percent of Orcupied Unite Without Piped Water                  58.2J       45.OL       67.79/     28.hQ/
Access to Electricity (as % of Total Population)              ..         ..            11.1      ..            7.5
Percent of Rural Population Connected to Electricity         ..          ..
RadioRepeivers per 1,000 Population                           ..          ..           276.0      218          23.0
Passenger Cars per 1,000 Population                             7.0        22.0       21.3       169.8         1.2
Electric Power Consumption (LWh p.e.)                         262         40h         525.0    2,121          19.0
Newsprint Consumption p.c., kg. per Day                      ..             2.4         3.1        5.3         0.1
Notes   Comparative figures refer either to the latest period or latest year. Latest period refers in principle ;o the
ten years 1960-70, the latest year in principle to 1970. Only significantly different periods or years are
footnoted separately.
1 Average number of daughters per woman of reproductive age.
_/ Ratio of under 15 and 65 and over age brackets to those in labor force bracket of ages 15 through 611.
F/ FAC reference standards represent physiological requirements for norsal activity and health, taking account of
environmental temperaturs, body weighta and distribution by age and sax of the national population.
W/ Protein stAndards (requirements) for all countries as established by USDA Economic Research Service provide for
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, ant 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 2.0
grams should be animal protein. Thees standards are sosauhat lower then those of 75 gram of total protein and
23 grAms of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by E'AO in the Third World Food Survey.
/ Some studies have suggested that crude death rates of children ages 2 through 4 may be used an a first
approximation index of malnutrition.
W Percentage enrolled of corresponding population of school age as defined for each country.
8/ 1968; b/ 1963-651 g/ date for nine out of 12 statem; d/ 1960; 2J 1961; / urban; e/ urban and rural 1960.
Country Programs Department II
Latin Amsrica and Caribbean
Regional Offioe       March 1974



AWE1ET I
SELECTED ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Average     Actual   , Estimated           Projections                              Growth Rates                             As 7. of GDY
1967-69       1972       1973       1974        1975       1976      1965-70      1970-73    1973-75     1975-80       1972      1974      1976
National Accounts                  Constant 1968 Prices in Mitlion USS
GDP                           29,458      43,134     47,680     51,494      55,614     60,063          7.5       10.8         8,0          8.0      98.6      98.7      99.3
Gains from terms of trade         78         610      1,153         688        448        443           -          -           -            -        1.4       1.3       0.7
Gross domestic income         29,536      43,744     48,833     52,182      56,062     60,496          7.6       11.1         7.2          8.0     100.0     100.0     100.0
Imports (including NFS)        2,199      4,788       5,882      6,195       6,828      7,510         16.1       23.0         7.8         9.8       10.9      11.9      12.4
Exports (import capacity)      2,133       3,929      5,364      5,377       5,691      6,306          9.2       22.0         3.0         12.5       9.0      10.3      10.4
Consumption                   24,582      35,490     38,494     40,955      44,125     47,510          7.6        9.5         7.1         7.5       81.1      78.5      78.5
Investment                     5,020      9,113      10,857     12,045      13,073     14,189        10.3        19.0         9.7         8.6       20.8      23.1      23.4
National savings               4,703       7,743      9,792      10,897     11,557     12,513         6.8        18.5         8.7          9.5      17.7      20.9      20.7
Domestic savings               4,954       8,254     10,339      11,227     11,937     12,986          7.5.      18.1         7.5          9.9      18.9      21.5      21.5
Price Indices                      1968 = 100
Domestic price indexl/           100         204        235          --         --         --         26.5       17.6          --           --        -         -         -
Import price index               100         109        121         I e        159        168         3.9         6.5        14.8         5.4         -         -         _
Export price index               103         129        154         172        172        180          5.4        8.3         5.9         4.7         -         -         _
Terms of trade index             103         118        127         115        108        107           -          -           -            -         -         -
Ptiblic Finance           1969'21  Constant 1968 Prices in Million US$                                                                               As % of GDP
Current receipts               6,516       9,499     10,720      11,714     12,801     13,989          --        14.2         9.3          __       22.0      22.7      23.3
Current expenditures           5,115       6,335      7,079      7,719       8,417      9,179          -- .       8.7         9.1          --       14.7      15.0      15.3
Budgetary saving               1,401       3,164      3,641      3,995       4,384      4,810          --        29.5         9.7          --        7.3       7.8       8.0
Other public saving             1,726     1,897      2,348       2,602      2,850      3,101          --         7.1        10.2          --        4.4       5.0       5.2
Public sector investment-/     3,851       5,716      6,325      6,920       7,491      8,132          --        16.0         8.8          --       13.2      13.4      13.5
- not applicable
-- not available
1/ General price index -- weighted average of wholesale price index (60 percent), the cost of living index (30 percent) and the cost of construction index (10 percent).
2/  Data before 1969 is not available.
3/  Including financial investment.
.tarch 19'4



AE I
MAW      2O iA_IT8. 4TMMf    ASS1STAlfl fJD  MiT RiCT10-
(        1Ao . ia dIlln-. of 0.S. doltao. at accral p7tta)
A-rog. AtIal
Aetual                      jqg2tMCl  _                   rolactad                          13l*Et           Cro80 Ita t
1969     1970     19y7     1972      1973      '1174      1971    1976     1977     1979     1979      I1S_ 1976 79          1979-9
5'9Ai8Y  AEAIIC  OF PATItUT'
Export. (Itcludiog i9F)                                 2,522    2,993    3.175    4.272    6,469       8,060    9,042   10.571   12.467   14,730   17.749     66,945        17.1      14.2
I  prtQ fltoadta 925                                    2.526 1M.r1       6.028    5.205    7 0_94     L926     10.847   12,589   14.575   16.8U    19.4U7     64_523        16.0      12 7
loscarca talatte                                           -4     -In      -85 4-933         -S25      -1,226   -1,805   -2_018   -2,108   -2,116   -1,738      2.422
Interact (iet)                                           -192     -234     P302     -359     -471        -259     -330     -481     -665     -880   -1,116     -2,154
Dtrcti Invracaeto  IneoIc  cad Tr- .er.                   -93     -149     v152     -197     -199        -235     -l73      312     -351     -393     -436       -785
Isbn. -a oi Carrottt Account                             -f       -562   -IO7     -1.9     -l 294      -l7a     4u       -2 811   -3.24    3.9       -             17
Pricatc Direct Invtast mor177                                      132      169      318      900         400      420      441      463      486      511        832         5.0       5.0
M L LT Loan,
Dltbur.-  ot                                            428      571      935    1,099      994       1,130    1,496    1,914    2,095    2,354    2,670      6.136
-tasnAnn                                               -361     -454     .441     -525     -374        -755 3    3fi3   -393      -489     -647     -814     -3.741
9., lt,har._e.nr.                                        67      137      3194      74     610          775    1,138    1.421    1,606    1,707    1,85       2.395
Financial CredIt.
01,bnrca ect.                                           831    1.122    1,442    3.3ff    3,080       1,731    1.956    2.270    2,669    3,066    3,078      2.812
- iseF v_cta                                           -369     -493     -641     -860   -1.580      -1,459   -1381' -1 596     -1.889   -2,145   -2.429     -3.709
Net 01,haraencct,                                       462      Xii      801    2,536    1,500         272      575      674      779      921      649       -897
Capital Wn-aacntia.  n.. i,                               169      l14      504      626      281           -                          -         -
Change in Nat Icceraro ft - lapRc.--                      613      518      560    2.565    2,007        -275     -275     -273     -275     -275     -275      1.,13
4_f L'l' 1 LDNcocaInoCm                                    557    1.033    1.3 1t 334        
I1tD                                                        -      205      256      455      199
t PC                                                        -        4        7       10       10
lOt                                                        35       40      133      180      250
AID sad 71490                               9~   ~   ~~~      ~~~     ~~~~~~9 46  99  15
cpfttc.n                                                   0315     54       37      199      2_0
'fiber Official                                            53       15       64       35       20
Dapplilar                                                 197      602      324      350
fth-                                                      16h 6r            11:       9C
lEnr tall 11155 SERVICE
9 b LT Dalt l`ltttInding ad Di.bare-d                   2,988    3.025    3,419    3,993    4.603
iLoot'a94E Dahi,                                121      164      175      239      ISO
AEO.-licatian on oh 6 LT Debt                           361      434      441      525      374
Total 9 4 LT Dtobr Sarcicc                              482      598      616      764
fltNer Debt Service (Net)                               430      564      763      971    1,66
T-t lDStbl S-riice (f.t)                                912    1,162    1,379    1,735    2.420
iat.icn on EKPor- Earning. (1)
M 4 LT Dabt Scr-ic-                                    19 1     20.0     19.4     17.9      8.6
Totl Ieb      . i_ce (Slt)                             36.2     398.     43.4     40D6     57.4
Otn.r..l Liqaidlty RatIo Caa*id-riq R..ae-..           32.0     31.0     32.8     22 9     21.4
Average Terns of 9 4 LT Dba
Iniorasia, 1 of Prior Yt     004 D                      4.3      5.7      5.9      7.0     4.5
Atnartfo,t ion a7, Tof Priar Year DO 6 D               12.8     15.0     14.6     15.4      9.4
ISED Dbi Ot taa,,ndia-g .ad Oi.bar .d                     19       258      ii.?     484      641
13RD a  7f       LT Dbt O f. D                            69       8.5     10.1     12.1     13.9
tIlt 037   at 94 LT? Dab, Sa-it                           .6      4.5      3.4      6.5     10.2
Actual Ahibt O  -taaiac an DaCeibar 31. 1972
ACTUAL A"iD PROJECTED EXTEiL _Di-T                       0C1.        Pact        Total      Ptrcec-
6I BRD493 9                                                          32.1
ID80                                                    243.7         6.1
Co744nt.7                                                            43.7
Band,                                                    60.0         1.5
S.ipplicer                                            1,135,7        28.4
Other,                                                  324.7         8,1
TOTAL IM 4 LT DEBT                               3.992.7       100.0
FIANiCIAL CRIDITS                                5,528.3
TOTAL DEBT OIUTSTANDING                          9,521.0
tAIrch 1974
/ Till toLld . 1    .-d an tIce Joo-y -r-c7dity farnaaot.



ANNEX I
Page h of h
BRAZIL: COMMITMENTS OBTAINED FROM EXTERNAL FINANCING SOURCES, 1968-72
(Amounts in millions of U.S. dollars)
Percent Share
1968   1969     1970    1971    1972       1968-72
1.  Suppliers' Credits               147    197     602      32h     350        35.5
Bahamas                          -      -       -                -
Denmark                         20      1        -      11       4
France                           1      2      58        8       8
Germany (Fed. Rep.)             16     32      27      45       22
Italy                            5      -     111        2     113
,Japan                          32     39      95      50       86
Spain                            -     27       -       20       8
U.K.                            18     65     295      107      40
U.S.A.                           8     18       5       40       3
U.S.S.R.                         -      -       -       11       -
Others                          47     13      11       12      66
2.  Governments                      263    157      115     199     249        21.6
Canada                           -      9       2        -      11
Czechoslovakia                   -      1       9        1       -
Germany (Fed. Rep.)              6     25        -      11      14
Hungary                          -     10       -        7       -
U.S.A.                         187    104      100     175     179
Other                           70      8       4        5      45
3.  International Organizations      113     35     245      389     635        31.1
IBRD                            97      -     20       2                  22.
IDB                             16     35      40      133     180         8.9
4. Others 1/                          78    168       71     121     100        11.8
TOTAL                      601    557   1,033   1,033    1,334       100.0
l Including private banks.
Source:   Central Bank, IBPD Debt Reporting System.
March 1974



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1974)
Loo an                                                      Amount Less
No. Year            Borrower                     Purpose  Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ million)
Sixteen      Loans fully disbursed                              309.5
403   1965   Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -       Power          57.0          0.3
Estreito I
404   1965   Centrais Eletricas de Sao Paulo -    Power          19.8          1.4
Xavantes
4242  1966   Centrais Eletricas de Minas          Power          49.0           1.0
Gerais - Jaguara
14141/ 1)66  Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -       Power          39.0           1.9
Estreito II
477   1966   Cia. Paulista de Forca e Luz         Power          41.0           0.1
5i6   19j6   Brazil                               Livestock      40.0           2.9
'~(   1-     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -       Power          22.3           3.7
Porto Colombia
566   1968   Centrais Eletricas de Minas          Power          26.6           5.6
Gerais - Volta Grande
5G67  1it68  Brazil                               Roads          26.0           3.2
66   1970   Banco do Nordeste do Brasil          Industry       25.0          11.7
576  197()  Brazil                               Roads          100.0         12.8
677   1970   Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -       Power          80.0          44.0
Marimbondo
r9°   1971   Centrais Eletricas do Sul do         Power          70.0         57.9
Brasil, S.A.
5     1t71   Brazil                               Education       8.4          6.9
7',fi 1 971  Brazil                               Ports          45.0          41.0
457   1'971  Superintendencia de Agua e           Water          22.0          19.6
Esgotos da Capital                 Supply
I/ In two tranches.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
Loan                                                       Amount Less
No.  Year          Borrower                     Purpose  Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ million
'K$;  P')71  Companhia Metropolitana de          Pollution       12.0         11.4
Saneamento de Sao Paulo           Control
7G6   1971   Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways        46.0         12.1
Id97  1Q71   Mineracoes Brasileiras Reunidas    Industry         50.0          5.2
'7T7  19712  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional      Industry        64.5         53.1
,)I")  19'72  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas       Industry        63.0         42.8
Gerais
1 3  1972   Brazil                              Roads           89.0         54.7
t.,d  1972   Companhia Siderurgica Paulista      Industry        64.5         60.6
829   1972   Centrais Eletricas de Minas         Power           60.0         55.2
Gerais, S.A. - Sao Simao
f753  1972   Brazil                              Land Settlement  6.7          6.6
85)4  1 D72  Brazil                              Roads           51.0          38.7
35 (  1912   Banco do Brasil, S.A.              Grain Storage    30.0         26.7
8o6   1 972  Brazil                              Livestock       26.0          20.4
887   1973   Light - Servicos de Eletricidade   Power            20.0         20.0
923   19'(3  Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -      Power          125.0        125.0
Itumbiara
9,)4  1973   Brazil                              Agro-Industries 54.0         54.0
Total                                             1,742.3       800.5
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others:                               238.3
Total now outstanding                             1,504.0
Amount sold                            35.5
of which has been repaid             10.3          25.2
Total now held by Bank                            1,478.8
Total undisbursed                                               800.5
r1o TDA credits have been made to Brazil



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1974)
Year                          Obligor                           lIype of Bisiness               Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957           Siemens to Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade           Elactrical Equipment            2.00         -     2.00
1958           Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                 Pulp and Paper                  1.20         -     1.20
1958           D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                 Automotive Parts                0.45         -     0.45
1958           WiLlys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Ind6stria e Com6rcio                           Motor Vehicles                 2.45          -     2.45
1959           Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.      Cement                          1.20         -     1.20
1959           Champion Celulose, S.A.                          Pulp                            4.00         -     4.00
1966/1968/
1972           Acos Villares, S.A.                              Steel                           8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969      Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                Pulp and Paper                 4.o6      3.13     7.19
1967/1972      Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio de
Fertilizantes                                  Fertilizers                     8.22      3.02    11.24
1969           Petroquimica Unigo, S.A.                         Petrochemicals                  5.50      2.88     8.38
1970           Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio          Petrochemicals                  5.50      2.88     8.38
1971           Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Com6rcio               Petrochemicals                  4.60      1-44     6.04
1971           Ind6stria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.           Pulp                            4.90         -     4.90
1972           Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas           Cement                         21.15      3.20    24.35
1973           Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA     Steel                           7.00      2.00     9.00
1973           Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP         Capital Market Development      5.00         -     5.00
1973          Eanpresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos           Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                         Refining                     26.00      4.40    30.40
1974           Industrias Villares, S.A.                        Elevators and Industrial
Equipment                    6.oo          -     6.oo
Total Gross Commitments                                                        117.23     24.88    142.11
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                          64.20      4.17    68.37
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                               53.03     20.71     73.74
Total Undisbursed                                                               23.97      39      27 95



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
C. 1IO, JECTS IlI EXECUTION 1/
(As of IMarch 31, 197L)
Ihere are now 31 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project: US$57 and US$39 million
loans of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Closing
Date: June 30, 1974. The nroject was completed in December
1973. Bquipment costs were substantially below estimates,
so that disbursements proceeded more slowly than forecast.
Lhe originlal closing date was April 1, 1971.
404l;     Xavantes Hydroelectric Project: US$25 million loan of
February 27, 1965; Closing Date: December 31, 1974. The
project was completed in early 1971 (after a delay of about
18 months) except for the installation of equipment for an
associated transmission line. Ordering and the proposed
delivery of this equipment have been delayed, and the loan
is now expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1974,
five years after the initial closing date. The original
closing date was December 31, 1969, postponed to December 31,
1971, February 29, 1972, and further postponed to December 31,
1973.
442       Jaguara Hydroelectric Project: US$49 million loan of March 15,
1966; Closing- Date: December 31, 1971. All the generators were
commissioned during 1971 and the project has been completed.
Disbursements will extend Up to the end of 1974 primarily because
equipment originally defective necessitated a postponement of the
last payments to suppliers. The original closing date was
April 30, 1971, postponed to April 30, 1973.
L&477     Power Distribution Project: US$41 million loan of December 19,
1966; Closing Date: December 31, 1973. This power distribution
project had a slow start but after administrative reorganization
in 1070 it gained momentum. Procurement for the project has been
ccnmleted. Most of the overhead distribution system has been
completed, as has construction work on transmission lines, sub-
stations and underground distribution systems. The loan is almost
fully disbursed. The original closing date was December 31, 1970,
postponed to December 31, 1973.
j/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weakness in project execution.



ANNEX TI
Page 5 of 9
Loan No.
516       Livestock Project:_ US$4O million loan of September 23, 1967;
Closing Date: December 31,, 1974. After initial delays due to
marketing and organizationa'l difficulties, the livestock credit
program has been proceeding at a satisfactory rate. Some prob-
lems arose in early 1972 on the calculation of interest on
indexed principal amounts during the grace period but these have
now been settled.  Although loan funds have now been completely
committed, US$2.9 million remains to be disbursed. The original
Closing Date was December 31, 1973.
565       Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project; US$22.3 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Closing Date: Mlarch 31, 1975. Changes in the
project layout and design have increased substantially the local
cost, which will be covered by ELETROBRAS, without, however,
significantly affecting the economLic justification for the project.
Construction work is on schedule and the last unit was placed in
service in early 1974.
566       Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project: US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 1960; Closing Date: January 31, 1975.   The project
was delayed six months by spillway foundation difficulties.
This problem and price escalation greater than estimated in-
creased powerhouse construction cost by 72%, but, as the original
cost was very low, the resulting cost per kW of generating capacity
is still attractive. No financialL difficulty is expected for the
company as a result of the overruns. The project is now two-
thirds completed and the first generating unit is expected to hci
in operation in April 1974.
567       First Highway Construction Project: US$26 million loan of
October 23, 1965; Closing Date: March 31, 1973. The construic-
tion works under this project are completed, as are disbursements
on all original project items. Overall quality of work was
satisfactory. The closing date for the loan was postponed from
December 31, 1972, the original date, to March 31, 1973. The
Government proposed several related additions to the project which
would utilize the unexpended loan balance of about US$3.2 million.
The Bank requested further information on the additions, and the
revised proposals are now under consideration in the Bank. If the
proposals are accepted by the Bank the Closing Date will be
postponed.
656       Industry: US$25 million loan of February 16, 1970 to Banco do
Nordeste do Brasil (BNB); Closing Date: June 30, 1975. The ]!oarn
has been fully committed. The Terminal Date for submission of
subprojects, originally June 30, 1972 and postponed to June 3(0,
1973, was postponed a second time to June 30, 1974 to give BNB an
opportunity to submit subprojects in an advanced stage of prepara-
tion. Slow utilization of the loan was due mainly to BNB's
unusually burdensome security conditions on subloans and its



ANNEX II
Page 6 of Y
Loan No.
emphasis on larger-scale projects, for which financing from other
than WTorld Bank fumds has been available.
676       Second Highway Construction Project:   US$100 million loan of
May 25, 1970; Closing Date:   July 31, 1974.  Construction works
are underway and the overall quality of construction and super-
vision is satisfactory. There have, however, been substantial
cost increases on some contracts, so that the total construction
cost of the project is now estimated to be above the appraisal
estimate, excluding contingencies, but still within the appraisal
estimate including contingencies. The execution of some contracts
has been seriously delayed by inclement weather conditions and
project changes, and it is expected that the Closing Date for the
loan will have to be postponed until June 30, 1975. Disbursements
under the loan are behind the appraisal schedule, due to a late
start of the project, but have improved during the last year.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:   US$70 million loan of May 25,
1970; Closing Date: May 31, 1977. Construction work is proceeding
on schedule. The cost of increased excavation and concrete worh-
resulting from poor rock foundation is expected to be mostlyr off-
set by a reduction in earth fill work. A US$26 million overrun,
caused by equipment prices higher than estimated and additional
transmission facilities, was covered by a loan from a commercial
bank, but did not significantly affect the economic justification
for the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:   US'70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977. The construction of the Salto
Osorio hydroelectric plant is progressing satisfactorily and no
cost overrun is foreseen at this time.   The construction of the
transmission system -- delayed to allow a reexamination of
ELETROSUL's market in light of revised demand projections in the
South of Brazil, possible new power sales in the Southeast region
and the addition of heretofore unscheduled generating capacity --
is now about to proceed as originally defined.
755       Education Project:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1975.   Progress on the construction and equip-
ment of the project schools is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Construction of six schools has been initiated, bids for construc-
tion of another five are underway, and design work for the remaining
five has been started. Although the project implementation is
behind the original schedulZ due to initial delays, disbursements
under the loan are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Closing
Date: June'30, 1979. Because of other investments in the Port of
Santos and an increase in the cost estimate of the Bank-financed
project there, the execution of the Bank--financed project has been
delayed and its scope has been reviewed. The Bank and the Borrower



ANNEX II
Page 7 of f
Loan No.
have now agreed to postpone construction of part of the container
terminal, exclude from the pro,ject the corn storage silo, simplify
the rail access to the left bank of the project, and reallocate
the remaining loan amount to a larger dredger and more extensive
consultantsI services and training.   The Closing Date of the Loarn
has been postponed from September 30, 1976 to June 30, 1079, in
accordance with the new schedule for completion of the project.
With the assistance of management consultants, satisfact,ory pro-
gress has been made in improving port operations in Santos.
However, a satisfactory plan for the reorganization of the Nationial
Department of Ports and Navigable Waterways has not yet been
completed, but is expected to be ready by mid-I Y4.
757       Sgo Paulo Water Supply Project:   US$22 million loan of June 'l
1971; Closing Date:  June 30, 19'75.  The project suffered initial
delays caused by the State of Sao Paulo not furnishing the re-
quired counterpart funds. The required funds are now included in
the state budget. The Government has consolidated all the water
and sewerage companies in the state into a single company. A new
agreement must therefore be negotiated with the new company. The
new company has been tardy in providing the Bank the necessary
information to conduct negotiations.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project: US$15 million loan of'
June 21, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1975.    The original project
design included the pumping of untreated sewage into an area
reservoir representing a major source of water and serving as an
important recreational facility for the Sao Paulo area. Earlier
studies had shown that the reservoir could absorb the organic
pollution without damage for some time.   Area residents, however,
objected to this solution and subsequent technical review questioned
the initial judgment that no ecological harm would be caused.   As
a result, the original d3sign has been modified to exclude the
discharge of raw sewage and include a treatment facility. Ridding
procedures are in progress for other portions of the project. In
light of the lower costs associated with the above solution, the
loan amount has been reduced to US$12 million.   The Government has
consolidated all the water and sewerage companies in the state
into a single company. A new agreement must therefore be negotiated
with the new company. The new company has been tardy in providing
the Bank the necessary information to conduct negotiations.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975. A delay of about six months
occurred in awarding the contracts for constructing the new
railway link for the MBR iron ore mine due to engineering prob-
lems encountered and inadequate project management by the Federal
Railways. Work on site has proceeded rapidly during 1973 and
much of the lost time was regained. New ore traffic commenced
on July 1, 1973.



At!1 EX TI
Page 8 of 2
Loan 'o.
'787      Mf'? Iron Ore Project:  US$50 million loan of August ŽW, 1')71;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976. The estimated cost of the
project has increased due to major design changes for tlie port,
terminal and several investment additions to the project.
Target completion dates at the mine and terminal were met sond
the first ship left port on November 2(6, 1     w't3, With 1 ,
tons of Aguas Claras Ore.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project:   US$64.5 million loan of F'ehru1ar\V ,
1972; Closing Date:   July 1, 1975. The Project is proceem nv
according to schedule.
&12       USIMINAS Steel Exoansion Project:   US'63 million loan of April 1l
1972; Closing Date:   June 1, 1976.  The oroject is proceedinc 
according to schedule.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:   US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Closing Date:   June 30, 1976.   Construction works
are nearly two-thirds completed, but are slightly behind schedule;
the estimated total contract cost is slightly above the appraisal
estimate. The feasibility studies and detailed engineering
financed under the loan were started later than planned, but are
now almost completed at a cost substantially below the appraisal
estimate. Disbursements are lagging behind the appraisal fore-
cast, but have improved during the last half year and are now
expected to be completed by the original Closing Date of the
loan (June 30, 1976).
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project: uS$64.5 million loan of
June 14, 1972;. Closing Date: January 15, 1977. The projest
is proceeding according to schedule.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of June 11¼,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1979. The contract for th-
civil works was awarded to an Italian-Brazilian consortium in
May 1973, and the project is proceeding according to schedule.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:   US$6.7 million loan of
July 24, 1972; Closing Date: December 1, 1978. COLONE has
prepared revised farm development plans whose credit component,
to be financed by public financial institutions, will be sig-
nificantly higher than originally estimated, although still low
in comparison to other settlement projects. Physical infra-
structure is likely to be completed in 1974, and it is
anticipated that the project will be completed in 1978 as
envisaged.
854       Fourth Highway Construction Project:   US$51 million loan of
August 14, 1972; Closing Date:   December 31, 1976. Construction
works are 37% completed and behind schedule; the estimated total
contract cost is slightly below the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX IT
Pagre ' of'
Loan No.
857       Grain Storage Project:  US$30 million loan of September 27,
1972; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979. After some initial
difficulties with the appraisal of subpro,jects, the project is
now well underway. During the first year of operation, 90
subprojects (totaling US$11 million) were approved and another
94 (totaling US$15 million) are in the pipeline.
868       Interim Second Livestock Project:  US$25 million loan of
December 19, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977. The project
is proceeding according to schedule and will be fully committed
by the end of 1974.
887       Power Distribution Project:  US$20 million loan of April 1(b,
1973; Closing Date:  June 30, 1976. The project is proceeding
according to schedule.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of
August 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1962. Invitations
to tender have been issued and the project is proceeding
according to schedule.
924       Agro-Industries CrEdit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973: Closing Date: December 31, 1978. The loan became
effective on March 11, 1974. The demand for credit is strong
and the participating banks are! expected to commit project funds
by October 1975.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRdAiZIL - PAULO AFONSO IV HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summa:r
-3orrower:        Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF).
Guiarantor:       Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount:           US$81 million equivalent.
'I'erms:          Payable in 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace
and 7-1/4% interest per annum.
Pro,ject
Description:      The project consists of the Sobradinho regulating dam,
the 1,50C MW Paulo Afonso IV hydroelectric power plant,
h70 km downstream from Sobradinho, 2,740 km of asso-
ciated transmission lines and 22 substations with an
aggregate capacity of 5,100 MVA to meet increases in
the power demand of the Northeast region of Brazil,
project related equipment such as inspection vehicles,
and training for the const;ruction, operation and
maintenance of the extra high voltage transmission
system.
Estimated Cost:                  (In US$ million equivalent)
Local Costs       Foreign Costs
Bank               Bank
Category       Financed   Cither   Financed  Other    Total
Sobradinho
Da.n            --      175.0       __       2.3    217.3
Paulo Afonso IV
Station         --      122.0       --     113.3    235.3
Transmission
System         19.3      81.3      56.9     76.9    23L.4
Training and
Other            --       0.8        .8      --       5.6
TOTAL PROJECT    19.3     379.1      61.7    232.5    692.6
= =~     _= 



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
t .ancin~:; 1' an: CHESF plans to obtain US$223.1 million equivalent out
of the total project cost of US$692.6 million equiva-
lent from the Bank, IDB and bilateral financing sources.
The remainder of the project cost will derive from in-
ternal cas-i generation and loans from EIETROBRAS. The
proposed foreign currency financing which applies to
materials, equipment and foreign engineering and train-
ing is shown below:
(In US$ million equivalent)
Category              IBRD    IDB     Parallel    Total
Paulo Afonso TV        --    18.8       62.3       81.1
Transmission Lines    5LJ.5    --        --        54.5
Substations           21.7    51.4       9.6        82.7
Training and Other     L.8     --        --.8
TOTAL PROJECT    81.0   70.2       71.9      223.1
_   _ =~      ==m
Financing Charges            1L..6
TOTAL TDB               84.8
timc,- at.ed
DiE>ursements:                          (In US$ million equivalent)
Fiscal Year         Annually         Cumulative
1975                17.0             17.0
1976                25.5             42.5
1977                21.0             63.5
1978                17.5             81.0
Procurement
Arrangements:      Equipment and materials to be financed by the recommended
Bank loan would be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Bank procurement guidelines;
tile manufacturers whose bids contain components manufac-
tured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the
hid being given a lj% margin of preference.
'i f of' Retturn:  23%
At) .ri ;a1 YPport; : RepoIrt, No. 396a-BR or May 1',, 19'2L.



Ca0 A / / O Clonttc  /  C O C e o S1  OUTH-
AMEhCA
IATl'NIC
OCEAN
I A R A                  E A I BA CAMN
MARANHAO                                             RIO     G       ORANDE
PAARANHAO f- @ 06FF f 0 4U GC^ ,,,,,,EBA
tSA#<A| ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Moo 0t 0g.  0 |OAOLO  a.-  00.Oo
Yn°-z 3 T 6 o <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                 S"'i_'          OP s          RUIRA
P E R N A Ml\ B U C 0                 0
PA W   FrcredeC   l  Fs F**ia  X t *0MARA A
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~A         l  AmO O  4 00 01 1r  Cosa  '  J
X ¢ - *r /1 1 W ~~~~~~ow.             e   OanO-a    0   l  a 0 1
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o =/                                       *r.nh aa.o_QO g i0SE PE
B    A   H   IGA                                      PO W ER   SYSTEM
)OTECg  CAMAC N       NORTHEAST REGION
Power-Crarno, Tr an.. s/on - ,ne o- d mutpro
5400105  v.a  C  2  .~P -tnin,uder C-nr-c,-n and I  op-ri/-
fT   ME          '        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1230 AND  138 &I LIUES
kI-.c-                                                             " .  F  I  7 *iCDROELKCTCIC GENERATING PLANTS
T* \aEMAu  FoElaTING PLANTS
00 0UNDAR   ES
DD   j_ o.0   .i00000.w i
MINAS GEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a,,,             ....a                       Ca...O AI                 C,` 3



