Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14694
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2389-JM)
JUNE 26, 1995
Environment and Urban Development Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(US$1.0 = J$ equivalent)
Official Rate      (1983)        J$ 1.78
Official Parallel Rate (1983)    J$ 2.9
Currency Rate (June 1987)        J$ 5.5
Currency Rate  (Jan 1991)        J$ 9.25
Currency Rate  (Dec 1991)        J$25.0
Currency Rate  (Jan 1995)        J$3 1.89
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Jamaica April I - March 31
WEIGHTS and MEASUJRES
British/US Units          Metric Equivalents
I inch (in)               2 54 centimeters (cm)
I foot (ft)               0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)               1.609 kilometers (km)
I acre                    0.4047 hectares (ha)
I imperial gallon         4 454 liters (1)
PRINCIPAL ABBREV'IATIONS and ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DMP          Directorate of Major Projects within the Ministry of Construction
KMA          Kingston Metropolitan Area
KSAC         Kingston and St. Andrew's Corporation
GOJ          Government of Jamaica
JCF          Jamaica Constabulary Force
JOS          Jamaica Omnibus Service
MLGW         Ministry of Local Government and Works
MOC          M/inistry of Construction
MOC (W)    Ministry of Construction (Works)
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MPUT         Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport
MTPF         Medium Term Policy Framework
MWT          Ministry of Water and Transport
PMU          F'roject Management Unit
PSIP         Public Sector Investment Program
TCPA         Town and Country Planning Authority
UDC          Urban Development Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
KINGSTON URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(Loan 2389-JM)
Table of Contents
Page
Preface                                                                            l
Evaluation Summary                                                                 i
PART I   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    Summary Project Data                                                         1
2.    Background and Sectoral Information                                          1
3.    Project Objectives and Description                                           4
4.    Project Design and Organization                                              4
5.    Project Implementation                                                       6
6.    Project Results                                                              6
7.    Project Sustainability                                                       13
8.    Bank Performance                                                             16
9.    Borrower Performance                                                         17
10.   Project Relationships                                                        17
11.   Project Documentation and Data                                              17
PART II   STATISTICAL ANNEXES
I     Summary of Assessments
2.    Related Bank Loans/Credits
3.    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
4.    Physical Key Indicators
5.    Institutional Key Indicators
6. A   Summary Project Costs
6. B   Detailed Project Costs
6. C   Project Costs by Component
7.    Project Financing
8.     Status of Legal Covenants
9.    Bank resources
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






4--
JAMAICA
KINGSTON URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(Loan 2389-JM)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Kingston Urban
Transport Project in Jamaica, for which Loan 2389-JM, in the amount of US$16.0 Million (M)
equivalent was approved on March 13, 1984. The original loan closing was scheduled for
September 30, 1991. The loan closing date was twice extended, with the final closing date on
September 30, 1993. The loan was amended on November 25, 1992. Final disbursements were
made on September 29, 1993. Disbursements under the Loan totaled US$11,423,513.57, with a
cancellation of US$4,576,486.43.
The ICR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division and the
Environmental and Urban Development Division of Country Department 3 of the Latin America
and Caribbean Region, the Bank's Resident Mission in Jamaica, and the Borrower (Ministry of
Public Utilities and Transport and the Ministry of Local Government and Works), and is based,
inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, the
Borrowers own records, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.






."-
JAMAICA
KINGSTON URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(Loan 2389-JM)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Obiectives
1.          The principal objective of the project was to provide for an adequate and efficient
system of urban transport in the Kingston Metropolitan Region, capable of supporting the
Government's overall economic strategy, including the use of the private sector where feasible.
In meeting this objective the project was designed to meet the following two conditions: (a) to
minimize the annual amount of foreign exchange needed for the operation of vehicles in the
urban transport system; and (b) to reduce budgetary expenditures by the government.
Implementation Experience and Results
2.          The Ministry of Construction (Works), or MOC, was responsible for overall
implementation as well as coordination of activities. As it had never been responsible for a
project of this magnitude, technical assistance through institutional strengthening added
significantly to its capability. And when a number of other government departments
implementing various components were re-organized MOC's commitment proved to be
invaluable. Nonetheless, implementation was long and arduous. The project was twice
extended, and ultimately took ten years to close. By the time of closure, Ln 2389 had outlived
its usefulness. Because it focused exclusively on the urban roads of Kingston, the loan had
created a set of priorities which did not always coincide with the government's own changing
investment priorities. For this reason problems were encountered with respect to the timely
allocation of counterpart funds. As a result the Bank created a new loan (Ln 3275 - Road
Infrastructure Planning and Maintenance Project) to replace Ln 2389. Along with a prioritized
road investment strategy for the country, Ln 3275 also continued with some of the components
of the previous loan, including assistance to the government for improvements in the bus
franchising system, completion of the Jamaica Transport Sector Study and a number of civil
works previously postponed (from Ln 2389).
3.          Overall project results were satisfactory. Project objectives were met but
complications arose concerning sustainability of results due to the massive devaluation of the
Jamaican dollar and the government's increased expenditure on maintenance. There were some
positive achievements in the institutional strengthening of MOC (W) specifically with respect to
staffing, streamlining of project processes and general re-organization of administrative
functions, improvements in training, traffic management and some civil works. But success was
uneven, because of the borrower's principal focus on maintenance works and equipment



-iii-
purchase with traffic management measures often delayed and some ultimately scrapped because
of the Ministry's preference to finance road improvements.
Summary of Findinfsl Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
4 *    The project experienced a number of delays. One of the main reasons for this
(particularly with respect to its achievement of physical targets) was lack of counterpart funding.
Because some of the Bank's project components were seen as less important than those of other
externally financed projects, they were deferred for lack of sufficient funds.
Main Findings
5.    The original period for disbursement allowed for the implementation of Ln 2389 (7.5
years) exceeded the Regional average for transport projects as well as the average for Jamaican
projects in transport. The project was twice extended (one year each) but still did not fully
disburse. Although officially Ln 2389 was closed on September 30, 1993, this closure was
somewhat artificial as a number of components (bus franchising, studies, civil works) were
transferred to Ln 3275. These have since been completed. The following summarizes the main
findings and lessons learned from the implementation of Ln 2389.
(a)    Lack of Resources and Approoriate Prioritization of Proiects. Although the
timeframe (7.5 years) allowed for implementation of Ln 2389 appeared adequate (it was twice
extended), in reality it was not. Changes in the government's own transport policy and the
macro-economic environment of the country, forced the government to control expenditures and
limit annual spending. In addition to the Bank, there were also 12 other external financiers in the
sector which led to an overcommitment of the Government's budget (in terms of counterpart
financing) to these same external investors (donors as well as Multilateral Institutions), and
resulted in a rather arbitrary allocation of its limited resources to those projects which in their
estimation were of a higher priority. This was in part also due to the fact that projects developed
priorities within their own programs. It is only now, under Ln 3275, that the Government is
more concerned with sustainability of project investments, has developed an investment strategy
for the sector, and is committed to allocating adequate counterpart financing to achieve these
objectives.
(b)   Institutional Issues. The re-organization of MOC (W) under the project was largely
successful. The project taught staff to change the process of design and construction of civil
works, began to develop a capacity to manage large scale projects in the sector, and generally
developed a useful management program, which included successful training of key personnel. It
also led to the creation of the Traffic Engineering Section within MOC (W). However, the
overall institutional ability to manage works, to adequately evaluate, plan, budget, control,
supervise, and co-ordinate activities, remains weak, making it difficult to carry out a cost-



-iv-
effective public works program, especially in times of severe budgetary constraints, and
numerous external interests.
(c)    StaffinE Issues. Throughout the life of the project the issue of staffing has been a
significant problem, both in terms of availability and capability. A solution of sorts was achieved
with the introduction of the College of Arts, Science & Technology graduates in certain
portfolios which originally had called for university-level trained staff. As a result a Traffic
Signal Unit was created and a number of other unit capabilities enhanced. Nonetheless, the
problem persists with adequately trained technical personnel still difficult to attract and maintain,
and a serious lack of qualified middle management in the Ministry.
Key Lessons Learned
(a)    Lack of Infrastructure Sector Analysis and Investment Stratevy. The project was
too narrowly focused on subsectoral investments (Kingston urban transport), which has not been
developed in the context of overall sectoral priorities, coordination with other demands for
MOC(W)'s resources (both human and fiscal), or in the context of weaknesses in the
government's overall public sector management. The project lacked strong sectoral analysis,
which would have identified the overall needs and responsibilities of the ministry, as well as
issues beyond their scope such as resource constraints and spending lirnits, timely allocation of
resources, contracting procedures, etc. While the concept of re-organizing MOC(W) and
supporting privatization of the public bus system was appropriate and timely subsequent analysis
during project implementation revealed that several of these civil works components in urban
Kingston did not rate as high a priority for investment as other infrastructure needs elsewhere in
the country.
Bank Lesson: A sectoral perspective in transport is essential to avoid distortions within the
sector and ensure an appropriate level of government budgetary support. For this reason an
overall infrastructure investment program as well as close coordination with the activities of
external financiers remains essential; otherwise overcommitment of government resources could
continue to beset interventions in the sector. In addition, the Bank and the Borrower must be
prepared to abandon, or significantly restructure a project when it no longer fits in with the
sectoral objectives of either financier.
(b)    Need for Coordination. There were several institutions involved in this project,
including the Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport (MPUT), MOC(W), the Kingston and St.
Andrew's Corporation (KSAC), the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP), the Town and
Country Planning Authority (TCPA), and the Jamaica Constabulary Force (JCF). MOC(W) was
selected as the lead agency. At the outset, the processes in place for the management of
externally financed projects in the transport sector, in MOC (W), were poor, but with the
assistance of Ln 2389 this changed. Given the number of components and the number of
agencies involved in project implementation this became very important. The project played a



significant role in developing the MOC's capabilities to manage large scale and complex
development investments, making it more functional and responsive to sectoral needs. It also
encouraged the Bank to formulate a follow-on project which reinforced both the Bank's and
GOJ's prior objectives in the sector (Ln 3275). A long-term relationship with a key ministry in
the sector, and the commitment of that agency to change was a significant achievement. Also,
there were about 12 external financiers involved in funding projects in the transport sector, with
little coordination between these entities and the ministry. This added substantially to the overall
problem of sectoral coordination, with each financier requiring individualized terms and
conditions for their projects, and where projects were once again chosen without consideration
of overall sectoral needs. Agreement among donors and the government on a list of priority
investments, scheduling, and cooperative arrangements including procurement requirements
(developed under Ln 3275) helped to resolve the issue and return control of the infrastructure
program to the Jamaicans.
Bank Lesson: A strong and responsive implementing/executing agency as well as strong sectoral
coordination among external financiers is very important in realizing project success as is the
Bank's commitment to the sector.
(c)   Simplicity in Focus. As noted above, there were several institutions responsible for the
implementation of this project. Although there was a single executing agency (MOC), which
was responsible for overall coordination there were too many participants to easily track
progress. In addition, after the government's reorganization of the key ministries (MOC and
MPUT), as well as disbanding of the Kingston and St. Andrew's Corporation (KSAC), another
key player, it became even more difficult to adequately monitor implementation.
Bank Lesson: Simplicity in focus as well as design reduces the need for complex coordination,
and allows both the Bank and the Borrower to monitor implementation with a minimum amount
of difficulty.



JAMAICA
KINGSTON URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan 2389-JM)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1     Summary Proiect Data
Project Name: Kingston Urban Transport Project
Loan Number:       2389-JM
RVP Unit:   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country:    Jamaica
Sector:      Urban                     Subsector:    Urban Transport
Loan Amount:       US$16.0 M           Disbursement: US$11.4 M
Cancellation: US$ 4.58 M
Staff Appraisal: May, 1983
Approval Date: 3/13/84                 Effective Date: 9/17/84
Original Closing Date: 9/30/91
Amended Closing Date: 6/30/93          Extensions: 2
Estimated Project Cost: US$29.8 M
Actual Project Cost: US$21.24 M
2.    Back2round and Sectoral Information
2.1          Jamaica is a relatively small country in the Caribbean, with a total of about 11,000
sq km. and a strong natural resource base. Its population of approximately 2.4 million people
(1990) has a modest natural population increase (around 1.9% per annum) with about 55% of
this total living in the capital area of Kingston. Jamaica's principal economic activities include
manufacturing, tourism, agriculture and bauxite/alumina mining and processing. Notwith-
standing a relatively well educated and skilled labor force, the country has faced significant
emigration, which has seriously depleted skills levels. Even though Jamaica has exhibited
improving health and nutrition conditions, and modest population growth rates, it has
experienced only sporadic real economic growth since independence, and only since the later
1980s has per capita income begun to rise with some regularity.
2.2          Over the period 1980-85, the economy of Jamaica continued the decline begun in
the early 1970s, with GDP growth averaging -0.9% per annum under serious fiscal and balance
of payments difficulties, labor unrest, stop and go stabilization and adjustment policies, and a
heavy external debt service. The resultant poor performance led to the cancellation in 1986 of
the 1984 IMF Standby Agreement, the suspension of Bank lending in the water and sewerage



-2-
sub-sectors, and a halt to debt re-scheduling. Despite the devastating effects of Hurricane
Gilbert in 1988, the economy recovered modestly over the period 1986-91 as GDP growth
averaged 3.9%, marked by renewed stabilization and the progressive adoption of market-
oriented policy reforms begun in the early 1980s. However, in the same timeframe, Jamaica also
experienced significant inflation (at one point over 100% per annum), and a dramatic devaluation
of its currency. This impacted their capability to import goods, and affected budgetary alloca-
tions to the various sectors.
Policy Context and Organization of the Transport Sector
2.3         Except for the roads subsector, responsibility for transport administration in
Jamaica is with the Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport (MPUT)'. The roads subsector is
primarily under the control of the Ministry of Local Government and Works (MLGW), including
the construction and maintenance of the island's road and street network. However,
responsibilities in other areas are not so neatly divided. The Island Traffic Authority which
regulates trucking is chaired by the Chief Technical Director of MLGW, but is under the
authority of MIPUT. Public transport remains under the jurisdiction of the MIPUT, but traffic
engineering is the responsibility of MILGW.
2.4         Buses form the dominant mode for the movement of people throughout the
island, one-third of which are owned and operated in the Kingston Metropolitan Region (KMR).
All are licensed by the Transport Authority, created under the auspices of MPUT. All elements
of the public transport system are closely regulated, including routes, frequencies and fares. Ln
2389 provided Technical Assistance to facilitate the resuscitation of a city-wide franchising
system in an effort to create efficiencies and eliminate some of the wasteful practices resulting
from the existing arrangement. A new system had been introduced in 1982 but unfortunately
proved to be unsustainable. The project was extended for the second time (September 1992-
1993) to provide the above noted Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Water and Transport,
and when Ln 2389 closed in 1993 this technical assistance was transferred to the new Bank loan
(3275). As a result a new bus franchising system was introduced in April 1995.
2.5         The GOJ has also committed itself to the restoration and maintenance of the road
infrastructure system. To this end a multi-year investment program in the sector has been
developed, which includes not only capital investments but also maintenance. In addition, to
provide a more secure source of revenue for road maintenance, the government is considering
the introduction of a Dedicated Road Maintenance Fund (DRMF), which would earmark certain
IIn January 1995 the GOJ re-organized many of its ministries as part of its
public sector reform initiative. Those ministries responsible for the
transport sector were included in this re-organization. As a result, the
Ministry of Water and Transport became the Ministry of Public Utilities and
Transport, while the former Ministry of Construction (Works) was amalgamated
with the Ministry responsible for Local Government. This has resulted in the
Ministry of Local Government and Works.



-3-
revenues (specifically surtax on gasoline) for maintenance activities. In terms of key issues in the
roads subsector these include: limited institutional capabilities due in large part to the lack of
appropriate and capable staff, lack of appropriate financial resources; road safety; and poor
public transport systems, particularly in the urban areas. The government has made efforts to
focus on these issues, particularly through donor and multilateral assistance.
Bank Context
2.6          Broadly speaking, the current Bank assistance strategy for Jamaica concentrates
on supporting the objectives and policies highlighted in the Medium Term Policy Framework
(MTPF), prepared by the Government with Bank assistance (most recent May, 1994)), the
associated Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS). Improvement in private sector confidence and the expansion of private investment are
among the key issues. The Bank's recent Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan
(Ln 3622) and SECAL focus not only on macroeconomic stability but also on this development
of an efficient private sector.
2.7          In total, the Bank has financed seven (7) projects in the roads subsector in
Jamaica. The First (Ln 408 in 1965) and Third (Ln 1032 in 1974) Highway Projects, which
accounted for US$19.0 M, focused specifically on construction activities, while the Second
(Ln 899 in 1973), Fourth (Ln 1740 in 1979) and the Highway Maintenance Project (Ln 2293 in
1984), as well as the Road Infrastructure Planning and Maintenance Project (Ln 3275 in 1991),
accounted for a total of US$75.3M and focused exclusively on maintenance issues. The other
project in this subsector, the Kingston Metropolitan Urban Transport Project, is the basis of this
ICR.
2.8          All of the above projects experienced implementation delays, but these have still
fallen within the regional and sectoral profiles. Institutional issues were major problems in the
first two projects, with under-estimation of project costs, poor supervision, and unsatisfactory
preparatory activities all cited as issues. Labor disputes also contributed to neither project filly
achieving its physical objectives. The Third and Fourth projects showed improvements in
ministerial technical capability, but inadequate counterpart funding and contractor failure caused
long delays. While never fully achieving all projected physical targets, substantial amounts of
unscheduled rehabilitation and resealing were carried out, which offset these target failures. The
Highway Maintenance Project also suffered from delays and a lack of counterpart funding due to
competition with other externally-funded projects.



-4-
3.    Project Obiectives and Description
3.1          The principal objective of the Kingston Urban Transport Project was to provide
for an adequate and efficient system of urban transport in the Kingston Metropolitan Region.,
capable of supporting the Government's overall economic strategy, including the use of the
private sector where feasible. In meeting this objective, the project was designed to meet the
following two objectives: (a) to minimize the annual amount of foreign exchange needed for the
operation of vehicles in the urban transport system; and (b) to reduce budgetary expenditures by
the government.
4.    Proiect Desian and Or2anization
4.1          Project Components - In broad terms the project was designed to introduce: (a)
traffic management improvements along the public transport corridors; (b) technical assistance in
divesting the publicly owned bus system to the private sector; (c) support for a five-year road
maintenance program; (d) a traffic signaling system; and (e) technical assistance training. The
project was amended to include an additional component for repairs to urban infrastructure
damaged by flooding during the summer of 1986.
4.2          Specifically, the project consisted of the following components:
(a)    Traffic Management Measures (representing 48% of base costs), with the greatest
amount of investment (30%) used for improving traffic flow along the following three most
heavily traveled public transport corridors in the KMR, as well as investments in traffic
management measures to improve intersections and traffic signals.
*     Spanish Town Road Corridor (.82 miles) - consisted of the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of critical road sections, and the redesign of intersections for bus access;
*     Half-Wav Tree - Cross Roads Corridor (.53 miles) - introduction of traffic control
measures, bus priority systems, bus interchange facilities, redesign of intersections,
reconstruction and improvement of sidewalks, and better bus access and interchange;
*     Hope Road Corridor (.85 miles) - rehabilitation and redesign of the carriageway and
intersections. Carriageway to be widened from 2 to 4 lanes.
(b)   Road Maintenance (representing 34% of base costs) - including a six-year road and
footway maintenance program (confined to the urban area), consisting of:



-5-
*     Periodic Maintenance - resealing of 12-17 miles of residential access roads per annum
(75-100 miles) over 6 years; resurfacing of 28 miles (66%) of principal traffic roads,
rehabilitation of curbs and sidewalks, and local drainage improvements at 35 locations.
*     Eguipment Purchase and Depot Construction - including routine maintenance and trench
re-instatement and employ of approximately 290 persons, as well as the construction of a central
depot and purchase of some 60 units of maintenance equipment.
*     Reorganization of Road Maintenance Functions - including the establishment of a
separate and autonomous road maintenance unit within the Roads and Works Section of KSAC
to be eventually transferred to either MOC (W) or the Island Road Authority (IRA).
(c)   Technical Assistance and Training (18% of base costs) - which cover 496 staff
months, of which 388 recruited from overseas, and 108 recruited locally. Technical assistance,
staff training and equipment provided to the following agencies: MPUT (84 staff months); MOC
(W) (216 staff months); KSAC (1 30 staff months); MFP (30 staff months); and the Jamaica
Constabulary Force (JCF) (36 staff months).
4.3         Project Amendment - On November 25, 1992 the project was amended to allow
the use of US$4.1 M in project funds to assist in financing the resuscitation of private sector
operation of the public transport system in the Kingston Metropolitan Region, and improve the
government's development of policy, integration, planning, and regulation of the system for the
entire island. The Loan Agreement was further amended to allow the Ministry of Public Utilities,
Transport and Energy (MPUTE), and the Transport Authority, to utilize these remaining funds,
to be used specifically for:
(a)   Technical Assistance and Training for MPUTE staff, the Transport Authority and the
private sector (accounting for about 9% of total re-allocated amount);
(b)   Development of Maintenance Facilities and Procurement of Equipment (about 29%
of re-allocated amount);
(c)   Preparation of a Transport Sector Study (9%);
(d)   Implementation of Immediate Actions as identified under the Transport Sector Study
(3% of re-allocated budget), including bus franchising; and
(e)   Privatization of Highway Construction/Operation (20%). This part of the remaining
loan funds would not be transferred to MPUT but would remain with MOC for the development
of a feasibility analysis for the construction of a toll road from Kingston to Ocho Rios.



-6-
5.    Project ImDlementation
5.1         The Ministry of Construction (Works) was responsible for the overall
implementation of the project. The Directorate of Major Projects (DMP), within the Ministry set
up a Project Management Unit (PMU) to coordinate the execution, supervision, monitoring and
evaluation of project components. The choice was logical as the DPU had already been
responsible for the implementation of several externally funded development projects (including
Bank financed highway projects) even though it had not previously been responsible in the
preparation and implementation of urban transport projects per se. The construction techniques
and procedures were considered similar to those used in highway projects with the DPU having
had experience in all key areas, such as civil works scheduling, consultant hiring, bidding of civil
works contracts, supervision of site works, preparation, approval and monitoring of
disbursement applications and the maintenance of project accounts. The Urban Development
Corporation (UDC) was the executing agency for MOC (W) for the design, construction and
supervision of civil works associated with the Spanish Town Road improvements (which was
under their jurisdiction). The MOC (W) was responsible for the execution and supervision of
traffic management measures (specifically the traffic Engineering Section within the Directorate
of Technical Services), periodic maintenance component and for other civil works components.
Each of the recipient agencies for technical assistance, training and equipment (MPUT, KSAC,
JCF, MOF, and MOC (W)) recruited their own technical assistance, organized their own training
programs and procured their own equipment under the general supervision of MOC (W). In
general implementation by each of the agencies was well carried out, with the exception of
KSAC, which was disbanded.
5.2         With the project amendment in 1992, MPUTE became the executing agency for
the majority of the undisbursed funds. A small project unit was created to implement the
amendments, prepare the proposed Transport Sector Loan, assist the Transport Authority to
finalize and begin implementation of the revised transport franchise system, and prepare the
Jamaica Transport Sector Study. A transport advisor was appointed to serve as the focal point
for transport issues, including the revitalization of public transport in the country.
6.    Project Results
6.1         The Ministry of Construction (Works) was chosen as the lead agency. Technical
assistance through institutional strengthening added significantly to its capability. Nonetheless,
implementation was long and arduous. The project was twice extended, and ultimately took ten
years to close. By the time of closure Ln 2389 had outlived its usefulness. Because it focused
exclusively on the urban roads of Kingston, the loan had created a set of priorities which were
not sufficiently flexible to adequately reflect changes in the government's priorities. For this
reason problems were encountered with respect to timely allocation of counterpart funds. As a
result the Bank created a new loan (Ln 3275 - Road Infrastructure Planning and Maintenance
Project) to replace Ln 2389. Along with a prioritized road investment strategy for the



-7-
country, Ln 3275 also picked up some of the components of the previous loan, including
assistance to the government for improvements in the bus franchising system, completion of the
Jamaica Transport Sector Study and a number of civil works previously postponed (from Ln
2389).
6.2         In terms of accomplishments in civil works, this was affected by one main
problem; a critical shortage of counterpart funding, which was further aggravated by untimely
releases of funds, lack of ultimate coordination and price escalation. The largest proportion of
expenditure went to road maintenance, followed by technical assistance. The least amount was
spent on traffic management. (paras 6.9 and 6.10).
6.3          Overall project results were satisfactory. Project objectives were met but
complications arose concerning sustainability of results due to the massive devaluation of the
Jamaican dollar and increased maintenance requirements. There were some positive
achievements in the institutional strengthening of MOC (W) specifically with respect to staffing,
streamlining of project processes and general re-organization of administrative functions,
improvements in training, traffic management and some civil works. But success was uneven,
because of the borrower's principal focus on maintenance works and equipment purchase with
traffic management measures often delayed and some ultimately scrapped because of the
Ministry's preference to finance road improvements.
6.4          For all its problems, the project did proceed reasonably well. All conditionality
was met, and the technical capacity of MOC(W) and the police improved as a result of the
technical assistance and training. The project's institutional objectives for MOC(W), albeit
narrowly defined, also have been largely achieved. A bus franchising system was introduced,
although it proved to be unsustainable in its original design, and all subsidies to the Jamaica
Omnibus Service (JOS) were eliminated as envisaged. Delays were experienced, in the
implementation of the civil works components largely as a result of inadequate counterpart funds
and human resources to meet the demands of all the various programs which were being funded
simultaneously by numerous external agencies. Only the most critical, or those with the most
attractive financing, were carried out. This issue was recognized by the GOJ and the external
agencies involved, and as a result a five-year rolling investment program was introduced with the
outstanding civil works of Ln 2389 prioritized and included in the five-year investment program.
6.5         In the amended project, of the J$50 million Bank funds which were allocated, less
than half was disbursed (J$19.78 m). Most of the amended components were begun, but few
were completed within the timeframe allotted. The Transport Sector Study was carried over into
Ln 3275, as were the implementation actions resulting from the study findings, including bus
franchising as well as the toll road study.



-8-
6.6          Other than the issues cited above, there were a number of recurring problems,
including:
(a)   Staffing - Throughout the life of the project the issue of staffing has been a significant
problem, both in terms of availability and capability. A solution of sorts was achieved with the
introduction of the College of Arts & Technology engineering graduates in certain portfolios
which originally had called for university-level trained staff. Nonetheless, the problem persists.
In addition to deficiencies in numbers of technical personnel essential to implement the program,
there is a serious lack of qualified middle management in the Ministry. Within the last three
years, the Permanent Secretary, Chief Technical Director, Director of Maintenance, Director of
Construction, Highway Planning Engineer and several superintendents have retired or left the
Ministry. Except for the Highway Planning Engineer, these have been replaced, quite
competently, from within. With a few exceptions, however, this shuffling of personnel has left
serious voids in key senior positions below the Director level. Salary reform should improve
recruitment of technicians and junior engineers in the future, and hopefully retain the existing
staff to the degree possible. The Ministry, meanwhile, is also instituting other initiatives to offset
the staffing issue, including: (i) identifying and contracting out all activities which can be done by
consultants; (ii) developing and implementing short and long-term training at all levels within the
Ministry; (iii) improving efficiency through employment of appropriate technology; and (iv)
employment of technical assistance on a long-term basis (2 - 4 years).
(b)   Contract Over-runs - some of the civil works contracts incurred substantial over-runs in
both costs and time. The main reasons included: poor contractor performance; weak linkages
with responsible authorities; protracted period between tender submission and award of
contracts; weak communication between executing agencies; and weak contract management.
(c)   Financial Records - audit reports were generally submitted late, with the final financial
report (1992/93) not yet received.
(d)   Project Budget - the project was constrained financially by the limited budgetary
allocations of the government, which was to supply counterpart funds. This caused overall delays
in the implementation of the project.
Financial Arrangements
6.7          To facilitate project implementation a number of financial and reporting
arrangement were introduced; as follows:
(a)   Special Accounts - In order to reduce the interval between payments a Special Account
and a Project Account were established in the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ). In addition a separate
account was established, maintained and funded in KSAC for expenditures concerning the
routine maintenance program established through the project. The government was to



-9-
ensure a level of funding in the recurrent budget allocations for KSAC sufficient for carrying out
the agreed routine maintenance programs. This was not realized because KSAC was disbanded.
(b)   Financial Reporting and Auditing - MOC (W)/DMP established and maintained
separate component related accounts for their responsibility in the Project Implementation Unit
under the supervision of the Financial Controller. Annual audit reports of: (i) component-related
accounts; (ii) the Project Account; (iii) the Special Account; and (iv) KSAC routine maintenance
account were provided, albeit often late. A final audit of the project has not yet been completed.
(c)   Monitoring and Evaluation - DMP was responsible for carrying out systematic
monitoring of the project, including the physical and financial status of components, highlighting
of any implementation issues. They were also responsible for monitoring the achievement of
selected physical and technical targets, with key indicators, used to measure progress and
provide the basis for quarterly reports. In order to assess the effectiveness of the project in
meeting its objectives, DTS was to monitor traffic related indicators and MIPUT the public
transport related indicators (including travel time, cost and frequency of service, passenger
loadings, and the performance of franchise holders in meeting the conditions of the franchises).
Although a number of these variables were monitored, most were not, mainly because of the lack
of available competent staff The general traffic indicators which were to be monitored included
vehicle operating costs, speed and delay surveys, traffic volumes, accidents and law enforcement.
These were never continuously monitored. For maintenance the indicators which were to be
monitored included measurement of road surface conditions but these were never carried out on
a consistent basis. The main purpose for this extensive monitoring was as input into evaluation
of the project success, including (i) assessing the effectiveness of each component in producing
expected benefits, especially in regard to foreign exchange savings; (ii) modifications to design or
operation of each component to achieve expected benefits; and (iii) enable the economic
justification to be verified. Because this detailed monitoring was not done the economic
justification as presented in the SAR cannot be verified. (See paras. 6.12-6.14)
Disbursements
6.8          These were slow during the entire project period. In an effort to assist in
disbursements and ensure the implementation of the bus franchising system, funds were
transferred to the Ministry of Water and Transport (previously MPUT) in the last year of the
final extension of the project. However the Ministry was unable to complete implementation of
this component and used only half of the funds allocated (US$2.5 million). The project closed
two years later than originally scheduled on September 30, 1993, with final disbursements
amounting to US$11.43 million. US$4.576 million was canceled on September 29, 1993. The
GOJ began loan repayment on June 1, 1988, with final payment due on December 1, 2000.



-10-
Project Costs
6.9         Officially, a total of US$21.24 M has been spent on the project. This includes
audited data up to FY91/92 (there is no available verifiable data for the period 1992/93). The
amount above noted represents 71% of the estimated project cost of US$29.8 M. Of the total
amount spent, US$17.62 M (83%) was for local costs while US$3.62 M (17%) was for direct
foreign costs. This compares with US$11.2 (37.6%) for local costs and US$18.6 M (62.4%) for
foreign costs in the appraisal report (which includes as well an undisclosed amount of indirect
foreign costs). During project implementation there were a number of serious macro-economic
issues which ultimately affected Ln 2389. Besides the significant devaluation in currency, which
prompted the government to conserve their foreign currency reserve, there were also a number
of environmental disasters, including Hurricane Gilbert (1988) and several floods, which required
that the government expend a fair amount of their foreign currency expenditure on an emergency
basis.
6.10        The largest proportion of actual expenditure went to road maintenance in the
amount of US$10.48 M (49.3%) with US$9.87 M going towards local costs. This compares
with a total of US$7.8 M (26%) for this item in the appraisal report, and illustrates the
government's shift in project priorities to maintenance. The next largest amount spent was
US$5.25 M for Technical Assistance which is US$1.15 M more than the appraisal estimate of
US$4.1 M. The least amount was spent on traffic management (US$3.81 M), which is US$6.99
M below the appraisal estimate of US$10.8 M. This was the component to which, in the SAR,
the largest portion of the project costs were ascribed.
Financial Impact
6.11        The SAR prepared an analysis of financial impact which the project was expected
to have on the KMR urban transport sector, as well as the central government budget. The
assumptions used, projections made and actual results are summarized briefly below.
(a)   Impact on the KMR Urban Transport Sector - The financial analysis of the project
was designed to assess the extent to which the project would achieve one of its principal
objectives, namely the reduction in budgetary expenditures by the government, especially the
subsidies to the public transport operations in the KMR. In 1984 as a whole, the urban transport
sector had been contributing an annual surplus to the government's budget. The project was
expected to increase this surplus at a time when it was expected to begin dwindling because of
the continuation of subsidies to the Jamaica Omnibus Service (JOS). In 1984 this surplus
amounted to J$50.5 M (US$15.8 M), and was expected to increase to J$70.0 M (US$21.2 M)
by 1990. These expectations were based on the following assumptions: (i) the JOS subsidy
would be eliminated with the liquidation of the entity by FY1988/89; (ii) franchising fees would
exceed franchising expenses by up to J$1.6 M (US$0.5 M) per year; and (iii) KSAC would



-11-
not make any investments in roads outside of the project. In actual fact, in 1990, there was a
recorded surplus of J$2.46 B. However, by 1993 the surplus was replaced by a deficit of J$1.03
B. However, the JOS subsidy was eliminated when JOS was disbanded, and KSAC ceased to
make any investments in roads after their demise in the early 1980s. The 1993 deficit noted was
in large part due to the fact that the government introduced significant improvements in road
maintenance which required increased investment in the sub-sector.
(b)   Impact on the Central Government Budget
Capital Budget - The appraisal indicated that the sector as a whole was providing a
surplus of revenues over expenditures which were to be larger with the project than without. It
was assumed that the existing charges (gasoline taxes, revenues from vehicle licenses, etc.)
would more than cover the costs of the project and other urban transport sector investments,
operations and maintenance. At its most resource intensive (1985/86) the project was estimated
to account for about 1.9% of the government's capital budget for that year. In actual fact
1985/86 were not the most resource intensive years of the project on the Government's Capital
Budget, while 1990/91 was. In that year the project accounted for 0.77% of the GOJ Capital
Budget. There were two other years, however (1986/87 and 1987/88) when the government
allocation was also high. In those years the project accounted for 1.28% and 1.17%, respectively,
of the government's Capital Budget (these figures exclude appropriations in aid). These
expenditures related in large measure, however, to increased requirements following Hurricane
Gilbert (1988), flooding and a significant devaluation of the Jamaican currency.
Debt Service - The government began loan repayment in 1987/88. The estimated debt
service (in 1992) was estimated to represent about .3% of total official debt service payments. In
actual fact official debt service payments (amounting to US$0.615 M from June 1/88-December
1/93 and US$.288 M from June 1/94 to June 1/2000) represent .43% of total official debt service
payments.
Recurrent Budget - The maintenance and operation of the works associated with the
project were estimated at JS$0.91 M (US$0.28 M) per annum. This was estimated to represent
0.6% of the existing government recurrent budget and as such was considered not to be a burden
to the government. In actual fact the amounts spent through the recurrent budget ranged from
J$4.5 M to J$6.2 M between 1984/85 and 1990/91. This accounted for about 0.1% of the
GOJ's actual recurrent budget in those years. In the years 1991/92 to 1993/94, this has
decreased to 0.01%.
Economic Benefits
6.12         During project appraisal an economic analysis was prepared for each of the
project components, except technical assistance. The evaluation was based on two quantifiable
benefits; vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings, and foreign exchange savings. Foreign



-12-
exchange savings were also based on vehicle operating costs including savings due to:
(a)   changes in road roughness,
(b)   increased road capacity;
(c)   a reduction in idling time at intersections, and
(d)   co-ordination of traffic signals.
6.13        The resultant rates of return calculated were high for both benefit streams
(ranging from 24% to 45% for VOC savings, excluding road maintenance which alone was
estimated at 188%, to 28% to 49% for foreign exchange savings, with road maintenance
estimated at 186%). It is significant to note that Jamaica imports all of its fuel (which accounts
for about 35% of VOCs), as well as all vehicle and vehicle spares. Because of this high
dependence on foreign imports, fluctuations in the exchange rate have a direct bearing on VOCs.
It is thus significant that the value of the Jamaican dollar, in relation to the US dollar, plummeted
during project implementation. At the time of appraisal (1983) US$1 was valued at J$2.9
whereas in January 1995 it was valued at J$31.9. A comparison of VOCs at the time of appraisal
and in 1995 illustrates the significance of the currency devaluation, where the costs have
increased between 300% and 1000% over those estimated in the SAR.
VOC Comparison
(J$/km)
Car  Taxi Van  Minibus         Buses        Trucks
SAR Estimate             .25   .27   .76    .71            1.37         1.85
1994 Estimate a/
- with person time       3.24  4.52  3.67   5.15  (8.44-14.48) (7.57-15.02)
- without person time    2.61  3.64  3.63   3.64  (5.92-8.60)  (7.57-15.02)
% Change           +900  +1000 +350  +400      +300          +300
a/    source: Vehicle Operating Costs. MOC Investment Planning Unit. Prepared under World
Bank Ln 3275 (Road Infrastructure Planning and Maintenance Project). 1994.
6.14        As noted in para. 6.7 Financial Arrangements (c-Monitoring and Evaluation), the
project had been designed to monitor the achievement of selected physical and technical targets,
with key indicators used to measure progress, including those concerning both traffic and public
transport (travel time, VOCs, speed and delay surveys, traffic volumes and road surface
conditions). The purpose of the monitoring was to assess the effectiveness of each component in
producing expected benefits, and to enable verification of the economic analysis. However,



-13-
the extent of monitoring was limited. In addition, the basic data used in the original economic
analysis is not available, nor are there any tables which would assist in preparing a standard re-
evaluation of economic benefits. Furthermore, neither MLGW nor MPUT have been able to
produce basic data for either the early or later project years, to facilitate such a re-evaluation.
For this reason it was not possible to prepare a re-evaluation of the quantified economic benefits
presented in the SAR. Nonetheless, given the significant differences between appraisal and post
appraisal VOCs, increased value of foreign currency, and changes in project focus, an analysis
based on available information suggests that the economic benefits originally envisaged have not
been realized. The reasons are as follows:
(a)    currency devaluation has significantly impacted vehicle operating costs and as a result
projected foreign exchange savings. A comparative assessment of VOCs before and after indicate
significant cost increases both in Jamaican and US currency.
(b)   the bus franchise system was not introduced as expected and the components dealing
with traffic signals and intersection improvements were dramatically down scaled. As a result
improved efficiencies in the public transport system were limited, generating little direct benefit
to the urban poor, who make up the majority of public transport passengers.
(c)    although there are no traffic counts available for either the appraisal or post-appraisal
period, general observations indicate that the project has not significantly improved traffic flow.
This is due mainly to a reluctance to focus on traffic management issues.
7.    Project Sustainabilitv
7.1          The project took ten years to close and some of the more important objectives
(KMR bus franchising) were not realized during project implementation. However, with the
financial assistance of Ln 3275 all of the outstanding components have been completed and are
considered sustainable. There were a number of project risks identified during appraisal, all of
which were considered manageable and with minimum risk to the project. The specific risks
cited and the results are outlined below.
(a)   the unwillingness or inability of the private sector to respond to the government's
initiative, lack of adherence to prescribed schedules by private operators, and the development of
a complex and inefficient bureaucracy within the technical assistance to administer the franchise
system. Safeguards were built into the system to safeguard against these eventualities. A bus
franchising system was introduced early in the project cycle, but eventually became politicized
and ultimately unsustainable. For this reason towards the end of the project life the Bank was
asked to provide technical assistance to resuscitate the system. After closure of Ln 2389 this
responsibility was transferred to Ln 3275, with a new bus franchising system finally re-introduced
on April 1, 1995.



-14-
(b)   MOC (W) being unable to sufficiently coordinate the execution of the project. The
project was so designed and technical assistance provided to avoid such an eventuality. This in
fact became a non-issue.
(c)    potential for problems associated with the fiscal inability of government to meet
counterpart financing requirements on schedule despite recent improvements in the economy. It
was considered that financial surpluses generated by the project would be sufficient to ensure
adequate budgetary allocations throughout the project execution period. As in most other
countries however the surpluses generated have gone directly into the General Consolidated
Fund in the Ministry of Finance, and were not directly redistributed to the sector. In addition,
after the economy experienced a serious downslide the government used its limited resources to
provide counterpart funds for other externally financed projects with limited contributions to
Ln 2389.
Main Findings
7.2          The original period for disbursement allowed for the implementation of Ln 2389
(7.5 years)exceeded the Regional average for transport projects as well as the average for
Jamaican projects in transport. The project was twice extended (one year each) but still did not
fully disburse. Although, officially Ln 2389 was closed on September 30, 1993, this closure was
somewhat articifical as a number of components (bus franchising, studies, civil works) were
transferred to Ln 3275. These have since been completed. The following summarizes the main
findings and lessons learned from the implementation of Ln 2389.
(a)    Lack of Resources and Appropriate Prioritization of Proiects. Although, the
timeframe (7.5 years) allowed for implementation of Ln 2389 appeared adequate (it was twice
extended), in reality it was not. Changes in the government's own transport policy and the
macro-economic environment of the country, forced the government to control expenditures and
limit annual spending. In addition to the Bank, there were also 12 other external financiers in
the sector which led to an overcommitment of its budget (in terms of counterpart financing) to
these same external investors (donors as well as Multilateral Institutions), and resulted in a rather
arbitrary allocation of its limited resources to those projects which in their estimation were of a
higher priority. This was in part also due to the fact that projects developed priorities within
their own programs. It is only now, under Ln 3275, that the Government is more concerned
with sustainability of project investments, has developed an investment strategy for the sector,
and is committed to allocating adequate counterpart financing to achieve these objectives.
(b)   Institutional Issues. The re-organization of MOC (W) under the project was largely
successful. The project taught staff to change the process of design and construction of civil
works, began to develope a capacity to manage large scale projects in the sector, and generally
developed a useful management program, which included successful training of key personnel.



15-
It also led to the creation of the Traffic Engineering Section within MOC (W). However, the
overall institutional ability to manage works, to adequately evaluate, plan, budget, control,
supervise, and co-ordinate activities, remains weak, making it difficult to carry out a cost-
effective public works program, especially in times of severe budgetary constraints, and
numerous external interests. This remains due, in large part, to the institution's continued
inability to attract and maintain qualified staff.
(c)    Staffinz Issues. Throughout the life of the project the issue of staffing has been a
significant problem, both in terms of availability and capability. A solution of sorts was achieved
with the introduction of the College of Arts, Science & Technology graduates in certain
portfolios which originally had called for university-level trained staff As a result a Traffic
Signal Unit was created and a number of other unit capabilities enhanced. Nonetheless, the
problem persists with adequately trained technical personnel still difficult to attract and maintain,
and a serious lack of qualified middle management in the Ministry.
Key Lessons Learned
(a)    Lack of Infrastructure Sector Analysis and Investment Strategv. The project was
too narrowly focused on subsectoral investments (Kingston urban transport), which has not been
developed in the context of overall sectoral priorities, coordination with other demands for
MOC(W)'s resources (both human and fiscal), or in the context of weaknesses in the
government's overall public sector management. The project lacked strong sectoral analysis,
which would have identified the overall needs and responsibilities of the ministry, as well as
issues beyond their scope such as resource constraints and spending limits, timely allocation of
resources, contracting procedures, etc. While the concept of re-organizing MOC(W) and
supporting privatization of the public bus system was appropriate and timely subsequent analysis
during project implementation revealed that several of these civil works components in urban
Kingston did not rate as high a priority for investment as other infrastructure needs elsewhere in
the country.
Bank Lesson: A sectoral perspective in transport is essential to avoid distortions within the
sector and ensure an appropriate level of government budgetary support. For this reason an
overall infrastructure investment program as well as close coordination with the activities of
external financiers remains essential; otherwise overcommitment of government resources could
continue to beset interventions in the sector. In addition, the Bank and the Borrower must be
prepared to abandon, or significantly restructure a project when it no longer fits in with the
sectoral objectives of either financier.
(b)    Need for Coordination. There were several institutions involved in this project,
including the Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport (MPUT), MOC(W), the Kingston and St.
Andrew's Corporation (KSAC), the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP), the Town and



-16-
Country Planning Authority (TCPA), and the Jamaica Constabulary Force (JCF). MOC(W) was
selected as the lead agency. At the outset, the processes in place for the management of
externally financed projects in the transport sector, in MOC (W), were poor, but with the
assistance of Ln 2389 this changed. Given the number of components and the number of
agencies involved in project implementation this became very important. The project played a
significant role in developing the MOC's capabilities to manage large scale and complex
development investments, making it more functional and responsive to sectoral needs. It also
encouraged the Bank to formulate a follow-on project which reinforced both the Bank's and
GOJ's prior objectives in the sector (Ln 3275). A long-term relationship with a key ministry in
the sector, and the commitment of that agency to change was a significant achievement. Also,
there were about 12 external financiers involved in funding projects in the transport sector, with
little coordination between these entities and the ministry. This added substantially to the overall
problem of sectoral coordination, with each financier requiring individualized terms and
conditions for their projects, and where projects were once again chosen without consideration
of overall sectoral needs. Agreement among donors and the government on a list of priority
investments, scheduling, and cooperative arrangements including procurement requirements
(developed under Ln 3275) helped to resolve the issue and return control of the infrastructure
program to the Jamaicans.
Bank Lesson: A strong and responsive implementing/executing agency as well as strong sectoral
coordination among external financiers is very important in realizing project success as is the
Bank's commitment to the sector.
(c)    Simplicity in Focus. As noted above, there were several institutions responsible for the
implementation of this project. Although there was a single executing agency (MOC), which
was responsible for overall coordination there were too many participants to easily track
progress. In addition, after the government's reorganization of the key ministries (MOC and
MPUT), as well as disbanding of the Kingston and St. Andrew's Corporation (KSAC), another
key player, it became even more difficult to adequately monitor implementation.
Bank Lesson: Simplicity in focus as well as design reduces the need for complex coordination,
and allows both the Bank and the Borrower to monitor implementation with a minimum amount
of difficulty.
Future Operations
7.3          Some of the outstanding components of Ln 2389, including the re-introduction
of a new bus franchising system for KMR and the completion of the Jamaica Transport Sector
Study, as well as a number of the civil works, were transferred to Ln 3275. Except for some of
the civil works components, which have significantly dropped in priority, the remaining
components have all been implemented. Follow-on loans are also in the process of preparation,
one dealing with rural infrastructure (Parish Infrastructure Project), another focusing more on the
overall road network (Transport Sector Loan), and a third strictly on maintenance (Road and



-17-
Bridge Maintenance Project) which is being developed in coordination and cooperation with the
IDB. In addition, the Bank is preparing a project (Private Infrastructure Financing Fund) to
encourage the private sector to become more fully involved in the financing of transport
interventions.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1          Generally the Bank performed well throughout the project cycle. It provided a
high level of input during the critical implementation stages, with a minimum of staff changes.
There was less supervision during the final years of the project in part due to the fact that after
the project was extended there were counterpart funding constraints.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1          Generally the Borrower performed well during project implementation,
particularly with respect to civil works, and the overall performance of MOC is considered to
have been very good under the circumstances. The main issue, that of adequate and timely
provision of counterpart funds was out of MOC's control. Indeed, with the serious macro and
environmental problems which the government faced during the project timeframe, as well as its
overcommitment to other external financiers, the issue of counterpart funding although a very
real problem, is nonetheless understandable. With respect to the implementation of the bus
franchise system in the Kingston Metropolitan Area, this was implemented at an early stage but
due to its unsustainability needed to be re-introduced again towards the end of the project cycle.
The development of an appropriate bus franchising system for Kingston required more attention
than the Ministry was prepared to offer at the outset, as well as more creative thinking and a
much deeper commitment than it was prepared to make. Franchising was re-introduced on
April 1, 1995 but there still remain a number of critical issues to be addressed (the introduction
of an appropriate cost-based fare structure is the main one).
9.2          Although MLGW did assist the Bank in preparing this ICR, specifically in terms
of detailed discussions on the project and the provision of information and statistical data, they
were unable to prepare a separate and independent evaluation of the project.
10.   Project Relationships
10.1         Project relationships between the Bank and the Borrower were generally very
good.
11.   Project Documentation and Data
11.1         The main Borrower files included project audit reports and quarterly reports.
There were some Supervision Mission Aide Memoires but these were sparse. Documentation






PART H   STATISTICAL ANNEXES



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obectives      Substantial    Partial     Neelizible      Not apnlicable
(1)          (/)           (1)              (1)
Macro policies                 D               D           D                z
Sector policies                D               D                            D F
Financial objectives           D                           DC               D E
Institutional development     WI                           D                E]I
Physical objectives            D              [1           D                0I
Poverty reduction              D               D          [                 WI
Gender issues                  D               D          [I                1
Other social objectives        D               D          [I                -I
Environmental objectives       D               D          []               WI]
Public sector management       D                           D                D   
Private sector development     D               D          WI                0
Other (specify)                 IIi                       FI                IZ
B. Proiect sustainability              Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain
(/)             (~/)            (1)
Highly
c. Bank performance               satisfactory        Satisfactory    Deficient
(I)              (1)             (1)
Identification                      W                                  D F
Preparation assistance                                D                D1  0
Appraisal                                           DF D
Supervision                          D                                 D I



Highly
D. Borrower performance               satisfactory       Satisfactory     Deficient
(/)               (/)              ( )
Preparation                          [EC                                   D 2
Implementation                                          P []               D
Covenant compliance                  [EC                [ 
Operation (if applicable              [                 [                  D
Highly                                         Highly
D. Assessment of outcome           satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
LII                         LIII]) VV )



JAMAICA
KINGSTON URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(Loan 2389)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title           Approval       Amount         Status
Date           (US$)
Preceding
Operations
1. Highway I           3/30/65          5.5        repaid
2. Highway II          5/29/73          9.3        repaid
3. Highway III         7/26/74         13.5        disbursed
4. Highway IV          6/21/79         15.5        disbursed
5. Highway Maint.      5/26/83         15.0        disbursed
Following
Operations
1. Road Planning      12/04/90         35.0        on-going
and Maint.



Table 3: Loan Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
Fiscal         Appraisal          Actual             As % of
Year           Estimate           Amount             Estimate
FY84                 0.7                0.0                4%
FY85                 2.08               0.68              32%
FY86                 7.21               1.38              19%
FY87                10.33               2.60              25%
FY88                13.41               4.39              33%
FY89                14.51               6.67              46%
FY90                15.39               8.54              55%
FY91                15.93              10.53              66%
FY92                16.0               10.86              68%
FY93                16.0               10.94              68%
FY94                16.0               11.42              71%
Date of Last Disbursement - September 29, 1993
OECR   c CR - Category Recap            LDS                B05/30/95    14:39:234
Action: DIN                                  a OrgLoan D00238904  Ref. Fund   D 4
INquiru GO NFnu + -                     Cof in D       la Proj D         4
Country   Region   OAS org    Interest   SR      Pooled    Sub sect.    Ccy comm
iM         73      00          7 1100    Y      P            UU            001
Original amount   16,000,000.00            Effective 09/17/84    Close  09/30/93
less disbursed   11,423,513.57            Project KINGSTON URBAN TRANSPORT
less cancelled    4,576,486.43            Cofinancier    NONE
Undisbursed bal             0.00           Undistributed              0.00
of which Resvd             0.00         - and Contr. due             0.00
Net loan balance            0.00         - includes balance of CHARGES ifany
Catecoru Description                            Undishursed amt   Disbursed amt
FEFEE    FRONT END FEE .25%                                 0.00       39,900.00
FUND     SPECIAL A/C          USD 0.64               640,610.88           610.88-
UNALLOCA UNALLOCATED                                        0.00            0.00
1        CIUIL WORKS          100%-F, 51%-L          640,610.88-   5,723,628.12
2        EQUIP PART A(lU)    100%-F                         0.00      964,422.59
3-A      TECH/ASST,CONS-TRNG 100%-T (PT C)                  0.00    4,571,009.08
3-B      TECH/ASST,DSGN-SUPN 100%-T                         0.00      125,164.66
RCV   F         8001-Inquiry Done                                           (02)03



TABLE 4: PHYSIC-AU XEY zNZDzCA2oA
CO!IPONENT         TARGZ?2  APPRAISAZ      ACTUAL    AHEAD OF   BEH XZD
ESTIMATE                 SCHEDULE  SCHED ULE
Spanlsh Twn. Rd. "A"       250' Construct.         0                          61
Complete
SpanAsh Twn. Rd. "B    2,200' Construct.  rnv                                 72
complete   Acquired
Spanish Z n. Rd. WC    5,284' Construct. T,hree (3)
ComplZete   Contracts
Coinplered
Halfvay Tree Comp.       L.S.    Construct. Constzuct.
Complete   Compleced
Jila.vay Tzee Road        2,700' Construct. Partlally            -
Complete   resurfaced
Oxford Road              Z.S.    Construct. Construction         -
ComplZete    completed
Haltvay Tree - Cross   L.S.    Construct.          a             -            66
Aoads                             Complete
HIall'way Tree S3ipe        600' Construct. Design               _            63
Complete   complere
Hope Road                 7,125' Construct. Desgzn              -            32
Complete   completed
Zn:ersec:clon Zmp         15 ea.      _       6 contracts
Completed
Tra.f.fc  signals        240 ea.  Civ. Works Reh. works          _
100%i Big  'completed
Znst. 50%
Road Mai.ntenance
Reseal ing        122  mls. *76 mls.          68           0            24
Road sidea          30 mIS.  19 mIs.           a8          0            24
Drainage            35 ea.   35 ea.           35           0     eompleted
Equ.pmenzc          60 ea.   60 ea.           50.          _            21
Depot                    L.S.      100%       Construction       _
completed  in progresa
Asphalt Patchng       Sq. yda.       /A        150,150         N/A       N/A
(Inc Flood Dam.-)
Tech. Assistance        526 mm                  280 mm      .   0             45
5S UA7KLY L@w-



TABLE 5            INSTITTUTIONA1. KEY INDICATORS
Mirch 1991
COMPONENT               ANTICIPATED (APP.   ACTUAI. STATUS:
PUBLIC TRANSPORT
Cumplete Org. Plan                          I
Recruit Exe. Dir.                :                               1
De facto Est. of JTA                        I
Preliminary Design of
Monitoring System                          I
Complete T02 for Tech. Ass.                 1                    1
Finalize Acct. Procedures                   1 I
Design initial Training
Programs                                   1                    2
Place Bus Stop                              1                    2
Start Franchise                             1
Start Franchise inspection                                       I
Operate interim AcCounts                    1                    I
Obtain and Evaluate T.A.
Proposal                                   1                    2
Legal JTA Establishment                     1                    1
Operate full Accounts                       1                    I
Receive T.A.                                1
Design Long-Term Train. Prog.               1                    2
Finalize Monotoring Program                 1                    2
Design Bus insp. Program                    1                    2
Complete financial Planning sys.            1                    2
Start Monotoring Program                    1                    1
Full Franchise Inspec.                      1                    2
Start Bus Inspection                        1                    2
Design Research Program                     1                    3
Staff Training Program                      1                    2
KSAC
Fund Road Maintenance AcCt.                 I                    1
Review Org. Plan                            1                    1
Discuss Plan w/employees                                         I 1
Submit Org. Plan to Bank                                         I 1
Finalize and Announce Org. Plan             I1
Hire Consultants                            1                    1
Establish Accounts & Procedures             1                    1
Operate Accounts                            1                    1
Dev. Training Plan                          1                    1
Hire Accountant                                                  I 1
Hire Engineer                               1                    1
Choose Site for New Depot                   1                    1
Liase with KOC(W) on equipment              1                    1
Design Monitoring System                    1                   .2
Start Training                              1                    1
Start Routine Maint. Program                1                    1
Retire Excess Employees                     1                    1
Complete Design of Depot                    1                    1
LEGEND
1.  FuLl compliance or being complied with
2. Partial compliance
3. No compliance
NOTE: All reference to KSAC should now read MOC(W).



TABLE 6A: Project Costs
_Appralb I'iimatW()S$)    Actual/Lutest Extimate(US$)
Local  Foreign            Local F*'orcign   __
Item            C'osts   Costs   TOTAL  Cosis   Costs  TOTAL
I Trallic Management       4.60     6.20    10.80    3.63    0.19    3.81
2. Road Maintenance        2-70     5.10     7.80     9.87    0.61    10.48
3. 1echnical Assistance    0.60     3.50     4.10     2.45    2.79    5.25
4. Ices                      -        I.()    0.10     -      00.4    0.04
5. ContingenLies           3.30     3.70     7.00     1.67      -      1.67
T)OTAL            11.20    18.60    29.80     17.62   .3-62    21.24
Notes.
-Duata LoVrS period 1984/85-1991/92 as audited statements for 92/93 and 93/94 wcrc unavaiJable
-Sub-conmponent called Flood Damage Rehabilitation was includcd in the program for the years
19X7/88 to 1990/91
TABI.E 6 B
Allocation of Costs by Category for Original & Amended Loan and amounts Disbursed
Original Loasn Amended Loan
Category            Amount(US$)  Ainount(US$)   Disbursed'
1. Civil Works                      9,200,000      6,500,000     5,534,356
2. Equipment                        1,900,000      1.9((,(00       872,432
3. TIcclinical Assistance           2,600,000      5,920,100     4,304,610
2Consultants 1ees & Trning   12,300,000  .               [4,199,251]
Dsigni & supervision      (300,000)                     [105.3591
I 'ransport Authority                    [520.,01 001
'Othcr Entities                          [5,400,0001
4. Initial Deposit to Special Aect.   640,000        640,000       104,340
5. Fee                                 39,900         39,900        39,900
6. tJnallocatcd                     1.620,100      1,000,000             0
Total                 1 6000,00()    16,000,00t   10,855,638
Notes:
I. From audit reports up to FY 1991/92 as no others available
2. Original sub-categories
3. Amended sub-categories
I 1=- includlcd in T A total



TABLE 6C: PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
rmplementation Completion Report
Kingston Urban Transport Project - Ln 23891M
Project Costs
ACTUAL EXPENDITURE (US$)
Annual Totals - LOCAL
Item             8485          86r            887          878           86889         89.19         90/91         9192             TOTAL
k Tmllic Management                 34.323       680,335       245,151       712.83C       831.496       406.517       492,907       224,839       3,62-.39
Spanish Town Rd
14a1t way Tre Rc
HDpe Rd
In:e-seioin improvenrmi
Trallc S.gnazs
B  R3ad MainUyanoe'                 22552          94 444     2.C14,417    1173.7B'       1.284,36'     1,293S769     1.548 858      497.985       7,29,995
C. Flood Damag Rtiab                                                         683.760       969,134       221,639        62847          3 179       1,940,56S
0. Techrnal Assista.ce              12,473       '96 590    282,498          232,160       371 626       567.411       725,234        83,62        21453,61
E. Fees(Sed 2.05 :3 Loan b ).
F. AdminFt,atior                   168,570       125,3511      1795831       -98,2171      208,917.      254.0741      2838.44I      248,70,71     16,3
TOTAL                   237.9181    1.101,722     2,701,611    3,000,75       38.534        2,743430      3,113 2901     1056 331      17,A23gl
ACTUAL E-XPENDITURE (US$)
~~~ -
Annual Totals -FOREIGN
Item             8U85          IS686        w8U87          87.88         84W89         89/90         9"g           91.92            TOTAL
iA TMir Manaagemen-                                             185,244                                                                               15S,24
|  Spanish Town Rd
Hall way Tree R-
Hope Rd
int ron impmvemrn
TraMc Signals
B. Road Mantenance'                                               9534                      83194        274.069                     249,57          106,37i
C Fko: Damage Retab
0. Tenical Assisanoe                             305 436       312 ,787      536,822       311.226       344 ,79       621 .82       359 393       2,792,125
E. Fees(Sea2 6MLafnAp.              39,900                                                                                                            39,90
F. Adfrninswbon
TOTAL                    39,900       305,436       517,565      53  a22        374,42D      6188,4         621.682       608.96        3,623,6G
N.B.
Audited statements for 1992193 and 1993/94 unavailable
LAcomponent called Flood D)arnaoe rehabilitaton included for the years 1987184-1990/91



Table 7  Project Financing
Appraisal Estimatc(USS)    Actual/Latest Estimate(USS)
Local   Foreign _____Local   Foreipgn
Item           Costs      Costs   TOTAL   Costs    Costs  T'OTAL
1. IB3I) D                        16.00    16.00  ___                    8.58
2. Colinancing                  _   -
institutions
3. Supplier's Credit      -        2.60     2.60                          0.00
4. Domestic             11.20       -       11.20                        14.04
contribution(c,3J)
TOT)lAL          11.20()    18.60    29 _1)                       22.63
Notes.
*Covers period 1 984/R5-299 1/92 as audited statements for 92/93-93/94 were unavailable
Audit reports do not give the local-loreign breakdown ol project finanicing
-The variance between Acttial totals of proiject linancing and costs indicates a balance remains in
the project accounts



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants'
Section   l            status|      date      dateDertonofcaOriginal    Re ovisedm
Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
-Section    tye        statue2   date          date                                           Description of covenant                                    Comments
3.01 (c)       I          C          n.a.         n.a.     Borrower shall maintain a Project Account with initial deposit of US$1 M and promptly replenish  n.a.
as amount are expanded
3.02           5          C          n.a.         n.a.     Borrower shall enter into satisfactory arrangements with UDC and KSAC for implementation of      n.a.
the Project
3.03           5          C          n.a.         n.a.     Borrower shall employ, as needed, engineering planning, management, accounting and training      n.a.
consultants to assist in project implementation.
3.04 (a)       13         C          n.a.         n.a.     Borrower shall, not later than 07/01/184, cause KSAC to submit a plan for reorganization of the  n.a.
_  ._   _Roads and Works Dept.
3.04 (b)       10         C          n.a.         n.a.     Borrower shall, not later than 07/01/84, appoint a roads maintenance engineer and                n.a.
an accountant.
Borrower shall submit, by Oct. 31 of each year, certified copies of audit reports of all accounts  n.a.
4.02 (c)       I          C          n.a.         n.a.      referred to in the Loan Agreement including a separate opinion regarding statements of
expenditure.
4.03 (a)       5         CP          n.a.         n.a.     Borrower shall cause all roads, facilities, construction and equipment in the project area to be  n.a.
& (b)                                                       adequately maintained.
4.03 (c)       2          C          n.a.         n.a.     Borrower shall submit, by March 15 of each year, proposed annual expenditures of KSAC for the    n.a.
& (i)                                                      Borrower's Routine Road Maintenance Program.                                                _
4.03 (c)       2          C          n.a.         n.a.     Borrower shall cause KSAC to open and maintain a separate account for the Routine Road           n.a.
(ii)                                                       Maintenance Program.
4.03 (c)       2          C          n.a.         n.a.     Borrower shall ensure that the amount maintained in the account referred to in para 4.03 (c) (ii) is  n.a.
(iii)                                                      adequate for timely implementation of the maintenance program.
Covenant types:                                              2 Present status:
I = Accounts/audits            8 = Indigenous people           C  = covenant complied with
2 = Financial perfonnancelrevenue  9 = Monitoring, review, and  CD= complied with after delay
3 = Flow and utilization of    10 = Project implementation not  CP= complied with partially
project funds               1 1 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding            budgetary or other resource
5 = Management aspects of the      allocation
project or executing agency  12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Enviromnental covenants        regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement   13 = Other



Table 9: Bank Resources
Fiscal Year          Total No. of         Total no. of
Staffweeks           Supervision
Missions
FY82                  31.3
FY83                  74.3
FY84                 35.2
FY85                   9.7
FY86                   4.6                   1
FY87                   8.4                   3
FY88                   4.9                   1
FY89                   6.3                   2
FY90                   1.2                   0
FY91                   2.5                  2
FY92                   8.7                  2
FY93                   7.6                  2
FY94                    .2                   1
Total Number of Staffweeks                        -  194.9
Total Number of Supervision Missions              -   14
Total Number of STWKS for Supervision Missions -   55.7
Total Number of STWKS for ICR Preparation         -   10.9












[:1AA' I NIT ;
Replcrt.  No:              4 f 3,4
T y pe:  ICRt



