Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4727b-JM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
February 15, 1984
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Official Rate                                      Official Parallel Rate
(May 1979 - Nov. 1983)                           (Jan. 1983 - Nov. 1983)
US$1.0  = J$ 1.78                                  US$1.0  =  J$ 2.40 - 2.90
J$ 1.0  = US$0.56                                  J$ 1.0  =  US$0.42
Official Rate (November 24, 1983)
US$1.0 = J$ 3.00 - 3.30
J$ 1.0 = US$0.29 - 0.32
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
British/US Units                               Metric Equivalent
1 inch (in)                         =          2.54 centimeters (cm)
1 foot (ft)                         =          0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)                         =          1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (mi2)                 =          2.589 square kilometers (km2)
1 acre                                         0.4047 hectares (ha)
1 mile per hour                                1 .6093 km per hour
1 imperial gallon (gal.)            =          4.454 liters (1)
TECHNICAL TERMS
ADT       Average Daily Traffic
CBR       California Bearing Ratio (an internationally adopted measure of
soil strength)
p.p.a.    Persons per acre (a measure of population density)
VOC       Vehicle Operating Cost



FOR OFFICIAL USt ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOJ       Bank of Jamaica
DMP       Directorate of Major Projects (MOC (W))
DTS       Directorate of Technical Services (MOC (W))
IRA       Island Road Authority
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
JCF       Jamaica Constabulary Force
JOS       Jamaica Omnibus Services
KMR       Kingston Metropolitan Region
KSAC      Kingston and St. Andrew Corporation
MFP       Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOC (W)   Ministry of Construction (Works)
MPUT      Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport
PIU       Project Implementation Unit (MOC (W))
TA        Transport Authority (MPUT)
TCPA      Town and Country Planning Authority (MFP)
TES       Traffic Engineering Section (MOC (W))
UDC       Urban Development Corporation (MFP)
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SECTOR BACKGROUND .........................................    1
A.  The Economic Context ..................................    1
B.  The Kingston Metropolitan Region ................                2
The Urban Transport System .....         .......................    4
II.   PROJECT DEVELOPMENT, OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE ....          .............    8
A.  Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector .................      .    8
B.  Project Development ......        .............................    8
C.  Project Rationale ..9................................... 
D.  Project Objectives and Scope .......... ..        ..............   10
E.  Project Costs .........................................  11
F.  Project Components ......        ..............................  12
G.  Project Financing Plan ...          .............................  14
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION          ....................................   15
A.  Implementation Arrangements .....       ......................   15
B.  Procurement ....      .......................................   16
C.  Disbursement ....       ......................................   18
D.  Special Accounts          ......................................   19
Special Account and Project Account ................     ..    19
Routine Maintenance Account ......       .....................   19
E.  Financial Reporting and Auditing ..................     ....   20
F.  Monitoring and Evaluation         ............................   20
IV.   FINANCIAL IMPACT .............      .............................  21
A.  Impact on the KMR Urban Transport Sector ..............  21
B.  Impact on the Central Government Budget ....        ...........  22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Jamaica in May 1983. The mission consisted of Peter Midgley (LCPUR) (Mission
Leader); Adrienne Nassau (LCPUR) (Financial and Institutional Analysis);
Grace Yabrudy (LOPUR) (Computer Analyses); Alan Armstrong-Wright (WUD)
(Public Transport Policy); David Cook (WUD) (Road Maintenance); Dimitri
Alatzas (CONS) (Traffic Engineering Design); and Louise Skinner (CONS)
(Economic Analysis). John Flora (LCPUR) and Marlies Vogel (CONS) contributed
extensively to the traffic engineering and economic analysis of the project.
Adeline Francois assisted in the production of the report.



-ii-
Table of Contents
Page No.
V.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .................................   23
A.  Summary of the Results of the Economic Analysis .......  23
B.  Distribution of Project Benefits .     .....................  25
VI.   PROJECT RISKS..............................................   26
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .........     ..................................  27
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:  Tables
Table 1.   Project Costs:  Project Component by Time
Table 2.    Project Costs:  Summary Account by Time
Table 3.   Project Costs:  Summary Account by Project Component (1)
Table 4.   Project Costs:  Summary Account by Project Component (2)
Table 5.    Implementation Schedule
Table 6.    Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Table 7.    Key Indicators for Monitoring Project Execution
Table 8.    Key Indicators for Monitoring Project Effectiveness
Table 9.   Key Indicators for Measuring Financial and Organizational
Performance
Table 10.   Institutional Indicators:  Schedule of Key Events
Table 11.   Flow of Funds for the KMR Road Transport Sector
Table 12.   Estimated Annual Recurrent Maintenance Costs 'With' and
'Without' the Project
ANNEX 2: Selected Document's and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
Map IBRD 17505: Kingston Urban Transport Project



iii-
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Government of Jamaica.
Amount:                   US$16.0 million equivalent (including a
capitalized front-end fee).
Project Description:      The principal objective of the project is to
promote the development of an adequate and effi-
cient urban transport system in the Kingston
Metropolitan Region (KMR), following the divest-
ment of the publicly-owned Jamaica Omnibus Company
to the private sector. The project is designed to
minimize the annual foreign exchange requirements
for the operation of vehicles in the KMR and to
rationalize and reduce in real terms Government
expenditures in the urban transport sector. The
project comprises the following major components:
(i) traffic management measures, including steps
for improving traffic flow along the three most
heavily travelled public transport corridors in
the KMR, intersection improvements, and traffic
signals; (ii) support for the five-year road
maintenance program in the KMR; and (iii) techni-
cal assistance and training to assist in the
execution of the project and to improve management
of the KMR urban transport system.
Project risks include the unwillingness or inabi-
lity of the private sector to respond to the
Government's policy initiative, lack of adherence
to prescribed schedules by private operators and
the development of a cumbersome bureaucracy to
administer the privatized system. The preparatory
studies have examined these risks and taken them
into account in the design of the franchising
process and of the technical assistance.



-iv-
Foreign             Local            Total
Project Costs:
Traffic management        6.2                4.6              10.8
Road maintenance          5.1                2.7               7.8
Technical assistance      3.5                0.6               4.1
Base cost             14.8                7.9              22.7
Physical contingencies   1.1                  0.6              1.7
Price contingencies       2.6                 2.7              5.3
Total project costsa/   18.5                 11.2             29.7
Front-end fee             0.1                 -                0.1
Total financing
required             18.6                11.2             29.8
Project Financing:
IBRD                     16.0                 -               16.0
Suppliers' credits        2.6                 -                2.6
GOJ                                          11.2             11.2
TOTAL                 18.6                11.2             29.8
Estimated Disbursements                  (US$ million)
FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89  FY90   FY 91  FY 92
Annual          0.7    1.4     5.1    3.1    3.1    1.1   0.9    0.5    0.1
Cumulative     0.7    2.1    7.2   10.3   13.4   14.5  15.4   15.9   16.0
Estimated rate of return: 67%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4727-JM
Map No. IBRD 17505
a/ Identifiable local taxes and duties amount t US$5.9 million or 20% of
total project costs.



JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. The Economic Context
1.01      After almost a decade of sustained decline, the Jamaican economy
is now beginning to experience a certain amount of growth due to the intro-
duction of an economic recovery program designed to correct structural
weaknesses in the economy and to attain a path of economic growth that
would be sustainable without recourse to special balance of payments
assistance.   Several reforms in the operation and management of the urban
transport sector have been formulated explicitly by Government to be con-
gruent with the external objectives of this program (especially energy
savings and the reduction of oil imports) and to be consistent with intern-
al fiscal measures designed to reduce budget expenditures.
1.02          Approximately 90% of Jamaica's  total energy  consumption is
dependent on petroleum, all of which is imported.  By 1982, both the value
and volume of fuel imports had declined from a peak of US$470 million in
1980 to a total of US$453 million (due to reduced production in the
bauxite/aluminum industry).  Petroleum importation for the domestic sector,
however, increased by 8.4% in value and by 3.8% in volume over 1981
levels.  The transportation sector (road and rail) undoubtedly contributed
significantly to this increase as its share of total petroleum consumption
increased from 12% in 1980 to over 14% in 1982.  The urban transport sector
accounts for around 9% of total petroleum consumption and around 60% of
retail gasoline sales are concentrated in the Kingston Metropolitan Region
(KMR).
1.03      In the area of energy conservation, the Government is pursuing a
policy of realistic pricing.  In January 1980, all subsidies on petroleum
products were eliminated and Government policy is to fully reflect produc-
tion costs in the final selling price of petroleum products.  Taxes are
levied on gasoline and automotive diesel oil and serve as a source of
revenue and for conservation purposes. The tax components of gasoline and
diesel oil prices are 40% and 12% respectively.
1.04       Given that the balance of payments is, and is likely to remain,
the binding constraint to Jamaica's economic growt-h for some years to come,
the connection between energy policies and economic performance is inescap-
able.  Analysis of the performance of the urban transportation sector in
Jamaica indicates that the relief of congestion in urban areas through
improved traffic control would have the highest cost/effectiveness ratio of
all energy savings measures because of fuel savings, which would be



- 2 -
achieved through the reduction of vehicle idling time and stopping time
(estimated to be responsible for an average consumption per vehicle of 1.63
gallons of fuel per hour in the KMR).  Buses and commercial vehicles are
more seriously affected by congestion than automobiles because of their
lesser flexibility in terms of hours of operation and route choice.  The
potential fuel savings from improved traffic control are therefore greater
per vehicle/hour for buses and commercial vehicles. In noncongested urban
areas, it has been estimated that the highest cost/effective ratio of all
foreign  exchange  savings  measures  would  be  achieved  by  improved  road
surface conditions derived from improved routine and periodic maintenance
operations.   These energy conservation and foreign exchange savings mea-
sures form the main thrust of the Government's urban transport investment
program which the proposed project is designed to strengthen and support
(see para. 2.07).
1.05       A cornerstone of the Government's economic recovery program is
the limitation of the role of the state in commercial activities.   The
private sector would be responsible for productive and commercial activi-
ties while the state would provide the infrastructure and policy environ-
ment to allow market mechanisms to function effectively.   As a result, a
program to sell or lease government assets began in January 1981.   By
December 1981, the operational and financial performance of the state-owned
bus company which operates in Kingston, Jamaica Omnibus Services (JOS), had
deteriorated to such an extent that Government decided to include JOS in
the program and turn over its operation to the private sector.   From a
positive net worth of over J$ 4.0 million (US$1.2 million) in 1978, the
equity of JOS is estimated to have been in a deficit position of over J$
40.0 million (US$12.1  million) by the end of 1982.  In 1982, JOS' cash
operating loss was J$ 13.0 million (Us$3.9 million) before taking into
account the fare subsidy of J$ 6.0 million (US$1 .8 million) provided by
Government.  Government has taken several actions in 1982 and 1983 which
led to phasing out the role of JOS in providing public transport services
by December 31, 1983 and the introduction of a private system operating on
a route franchise basis on January 2,  1984.   These measures have been
prepared in consultation with the Bank and are consistent with those
internal fiscal measures of the Government's economic recovery program
which are designed to reduce budget expenditures.  They therefore form the
public transport framework which the proposed project is designed to
strengthen and support (see para. 2.08).
B. The Kingston Metropolitan Region
1.06       Between 1970 and 1980, almost 75% of national population growth
occurred in urban areas.  Since 1970, population increases have tended to
concentrate in the larger urban centers with the largest population
increases being achieved in the Kingston Metropolitan Region (KMR) which
accounted for nearly one third of Jamaica's total population by 1980. The
KMR covers a total land area of 250 square miles (see Map IBRD 17505) and,
is a conurbation of three main urban areas:   Kingston,  the capital city
with a population of about 500,000; Portmore, a dormitory suburb with a
population of around 70,000; and Spanish Town, the historical capital of
Jamaica with a population of 80,000. In 1983, the average household income
for the KMR is estimated at about J$ 100.0 (US$30.3) per week and 75,000



- 3 -
households are estimated to have incomes below the relative urban poverty
threshold of J$ 67.50 (US$20.5) per week.   Transport costs absorb rela-
tively large proportions of household income, especially for lower-income
groups, which are estimated to spend around 14% of their incomes on trans-
port. Higher income households spend 9% of their incomes on transport.
The KMR dominates not only the urban sector but also the island as a
whole. With an estimated population of about 650,000, it is almost eight
times larger than the next largest city, Montego Bay.   Apart from being
Jamaica's capital and, therefore, the center of Government and administra-
tion, it is also the largest consumer market, the major source of skilled
labor and the country's center for offices, manufacturing, transport,
banking and retail and wholesale trade.  The KMR accounts for about 35% of
the island's labor force, for over 70% of industrial activity and 80% of
manufacturing employment in Jamaica.   The economy  of the metropolitan
region and of the island are extremely interdependent and in 1982, the KMR
is estimated to have generated 48% of total GDP.
1.07       Despite attempts in the past to distinguish between local and
national matters in the procedures set up for the governance of urban areas
in general, and of the capital city in particular, Jamaica's urban system
has become so closely interwoven with the national economy that the manage-
ment of the KMR and urban facilities elsewhere in the island are becoming
increasingly integrated, de facto, into national Government.  Already, the
planning and control of investment in urban areas is undertaken by national
agencies and these agencies are increasingly involved in day-to-day urban
management and the maintenance of urban services. The continuation of this
trend is somewhat inevitable in an island the size of Jamaica, as the pace
of urbanization increases and more efficient ways must be found to manage
urban growth.   The development of this trend is becoming crucial in the
case of the KMR as the present system of local government is proving to be
increasingly incapable of providing the level of services necessary for the
basic functioning of the city.
1.08      Although the KMR has been spared many of the unmanageable condi-
tions of other cities in the world, the physical systems which are needed
to sustain the city-region are beginning to break down, with a resultant
deterioration of urban services and stagnation in the urban development
process. Although many of these breakdowns in the urban system result from
the decline in the economy during the 1970's, they also result from ineffi-
ciencies in the governance of Kingston. The principal local authority, the
Kingston St. Andrew Corporation (KSAC), as little power to raise revenues
on its own.  Modern administrative systems do not exist.  There is no real
goal setting, either among the elected members of Council, or the key
officers. In addition, budgets are not funded fully, expenditures are not
recorded in a timely or accurate way, and reports to management are inade-
quate. Solutions to the administrative crisis of governance in the KMR are
being examined by Government, along with improvements in the role of
national agencies, in the provision of services in the KMR (especially,
water and power service, markets and drainage).  In order to provide some
background information for the development of policies concerning the
future of KSAC, Government has requested assistance from USAID in perform-
ing a management audit of KSAC.  This audit is scheduled for completion by
March 1984.   In addition,  the principal urban functions are receiving



- 4 -
attention.   Of these, the most important from the point of view of city
form and efficiency is urban transportation.
The Urban Transport System
1.09       The urban transport system in the KMR comprises a road network
of about 900 miles of which 105 miles are classified as main roads and 565
miles are used as bus routes. Traffic signals control 72 intersections and
15 pedestrian crossings and a comprehensive one-way traffic flow system
operates in downtown Kingston.   The vehicle fleet represents 58% of the
national fleet and is estimated to be around 35,000 vehicles, of which
26,000 are private cars and 4,000 are public transport vehicles (including
taxis). The urban transport system is estimated to handle in the order of
1 .6 million person trips per day.  The dominant mode of travel is public
transport (47% of all trips) followed by walking (29% of all trips) and
private car (20% of all trips).   The most important trip generators are
work (35%), school (29%) and commercial activities (22%).
1.10       Traffic volumes have declined in the KMR since the mid-1970s due
to the decline in the economy, restrictions on the importation of vehicles
(the vehicle fleet in the KMR declined from a peak of 54,000 in 1975 to
32,000 in 1979) and increases in fuel prices (which increased from J$ 2.85
per gallon in December 1978 to J$ 4.55 per gallon in May 1983).  Car owner-
ship also declined but is now on the increase and is currently estimated to
be four cars per 100 population which is still 50% lower than in 1963.
Private cars represent between 55% and 60% of total vehicles on the road
system (and account for the bulk of fuel consumption in the KMR), whereas
public transport vehicles (excluding taxis) probably represent no more than
20% of traffic volumes on the main road network.
1.11       The urban transport system is operating inefficiently in meeting
demand and in the use of both local and national resources.  The KMR vehi-
cle fleet, which represents less than 50% of the national vehicle fleet,
accounts for over 60% of national fuel consumption.  The cost of operating
vehicles in the KMR is significantly higher due to the poor condition of
road surfaces (which can result in a doubling of vehicle operating costs
per mile) and due to insufficient capacities at intersections (which cause
delays and unnecessary fuel consumption through increased stopping and
idling time). The main road network is congested at peak hours and it is a
common habit for car drivers to circumvent congested streets or intersec-
tions by using residential roads as bypasses (thereby increasing vehicle
operating costs per trip and causing damage to the residential roads).
Public transport services are unreliable and overcrowded. Although 92% of
the population in the KMR have a bus stop less than 300 yards from their
place of residence, bus availability is so poor that the majority of people
wait for periods of 20 minutes or more for a place in an already overcrowd-
ed bus. In most cases, optimum bus routing plans are not being used, there
is a duplication of routes, and services are over-extended in suburban
areas.   Thus, inefficiencies and waste are an integral part of the public
transport system.
1.12      Public Transport.  Travel demand for public transport is charac-
terized by highly diversified origins and destinations, by widely variable



- 5 -
trip lengths and a very high daily per capita trip rate (which at 1 .05
trips per head is the same as in Hong Kong).  While downtown Kingston is
the dominant focus for travel demand (in part due to the concentration of
market activities) trips are widely scattered throughout the KMR and spread
over an eighteen hour day (from 6:00 a.m.  to midnight).   Weekday peak
demand is generally from 7:00 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. and between 3:00 p.m. and
6:00 p.m. with passenger volumes reaching 70,000 or more per hour. Public
transport trips total 780,000 per day and, until the end of 1983, were
provided on 77 individual bus routes by the state-owned bus company, JOS,
and by a variety of private operators.  Since January 2, 1984, the public
transport is provided by private operators (see para. 1.15).  Fares range
from J$ 0.50 to J$ 0.65 (US$0.15 to US$0.20) per trip.
1.13      The Jamaica Omnibus Service (JOS).  JOS was founded in 1953 as a
private company and was nationalized in 1974 as a public sector enterprise
under the Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport  (MPUT).   JOS was
already finding it difficult to cover its operating costs due to its un-
profitable fare structure, when, in 1979, bus workers' wages were doubled
by Government in a year which also witnessed a serious decline in perform-
ance. No regular supply of spare parts had been available since national-
ization and, by 1980, although JOS owned a fleet of 567 buses, only 245
(45%) were operational.  By 1982, JOS was in the terminal stages of decay.
Average daily bus turnout was as low as 140 and ridership had dropped by
23%  from  the  preceding  year.    The  staff/bus  turnout  ratio  remained
excessively high (at 13 staff per bus turned out) despite a reduction in
the workforce of 500 workers in May 1982.  JOS was also in the terminal
stages of insolvency and by 1983, JOS operations involved the Government in
overall deficit financing on the order of J$ 2.0 million (US$0.6 million)
every month.
1.14       Private Bus Operations.  Privately-owned and operated minibuses
first appeared on Kingston's streets in significant numbers in 1974.  Their
operations were illegal as JOS had been granted the monopoly for public
transport services.   By 1977, they numbered 1 ,350 and accounted for one
third of passengers carried.  Since 1977, JOS has been obliged to grant an
increasing number of sub-franchises to private operators (due to its in-
ability to provide service); by 1982 legally franchised private operators
were carrying 80% of total passengers. In addition, it appears from sample
surveys that several thousand passenger trips per day are being provided by
illegal  minibuses.   The  number  of illegal  minibuses  is  impossible  to
estimate with any accuracy but may well total 500 buses in addition to the
80 privately-owned large buses and 1 ,300 minibuses which are legally
authorized to operate on JOS routes.
1.15       Public Transport Policy.  As a consequence of the serious dete-
rioration of JOS and the relative vigour of the private sector, and in
keeping with its overall strategy of reducing the role of the public sector
in the economy (see para. 1.05), Government decided in December 1981 to
privatize public transport operations in the KMR.  This decision reflected
the Government's determination to improve the efficiency of the system and
make it more responsive to demand by encouraging competition in the provi-
sion of services.  JOS ceased operations on December 31, 1983.  A revised
bus route structure has been developed and provides the basis for the



- 6 -
designation of franchises to private operators. The urban route structure
nominally operated by JOS has been reduced, by amalgamation, from 44 routes
in the main urban area to 20 (see Map IBRD 1705). The revised route system
has been organized into 10 franchises each of which is designed to
encourage competition between franchise holders on contiguous routes. All
the routes are designed to be individually profitable and no subsidy of any
kind would be granted to franchise operators.   Fares do not exceed those
currently  charged  by  private  operators  and  accepted  by  the  public.
Franchises offer security of operational rights for six years.
1.16       Government is in the process of setting up a Transport Authority
(TA) which would exercise all the powers necessary for the complete award,
control and monitoring of the franchises as well as the consolidation of
vehicle  inspection and  licensing.   The TA  would  replace  the  existing
licensing boards operated by the MPUT. The TA would review the performance
of private operators every three months especially regarding adherence to
prescribed routes, hours of operation, frequency of service, fare structure
and overloading. It would be administered by a Board of Directors compris-
ing:   a Chairman, appointed by the Minister of Public Utilities and Tran-
sport; a Managing Director; and representatives of MPUT, the Attorney
General's Department, the Ministry of Construction (Works) (MOC (W)), the
Commissioner of Police, and the franchise holders.  The Managing Director
would be responsible for the overall administration and management of the
TA, which would have a staff of around 100.
1.17      Traffic Management and Road Maintenance.  Although the road net-
work in the KMR is extensive and the main roads are all paved, the major
part of the road system is operating below capacity due to inadequate
traffic management (the control and regulation of traffic flow through
traffic signs, traffic signals, lane markings, channelization of intersec-
tions, one-way streets, parking control, etc.)  and the inadequate condi-
tion of road pavements and of sidewalks (which forces pedestrians to use
the carriageway and impedes traffic flow).
1 .18      Signing and road marking are the responsibility of the Traffic
Engineering Services Section of the City Engineer's Department of KSAC.
The 3,000 traffic signs which are designed and located to control traffic
flow have either faded or are in such poor condition as to be ineffective.
Advance direction signs do not exist and practically all road markings have
become invisible.  Although most critical intersections are controlled by
traffic signals, none are linked to provide for synchronization of corridor
flows.    Many  are  controlled  by  controllers,  which  are  incorrectly
programed for peak and off-peak traffic flows, few are vehicle actuated due
to electronic or road surface failures, which have destroyed the loop
detectors buried in the roadway, and 30% are out of service or defective on
any given day.  The performance of the signal system has deteriorated to
such an extent of unreliability that many motorists regard a red signal as
a  "yield"  indicator.      Individual  intersections  are  not  adequately
channelized to efficiently handle traffic flows and traffic movements.
This is especially noticeable on the main road network, along bus routes
and in the downtown area.   The resultant congestion is more due to poor
intersection design or layout than physical capacity per se.  The compre-
hensive one-way system which exists in downtown Kingston operates relative-
ly well except for inadequate signal control at the many intersections in
the system.



- 7 -
1.19         KSAC is responsible for the maintenance of all roads in its
jurisdiction except for the main road network of rural St. Andrew which is
maintained by the Ministry  of Construction (Works)  (MOC (W)).   On the
whole, the carriageways of the primary and secondary roads in the KMR are
in a reasonable condition, although curbs and footways have been neglected
and considerable fatigue and pavement stress exist where drainage is
inadequate.   Over 100 miles of the road system have inadequate sidewalks
and many are primary roads which cater for large volumes of vehicles and
pedestrian traffic. Although there is little evidence of failure or defi-
ciencies in the basic infrastructure of the main road network, irregularity
of road surfaces and surface deterioration are becoming widespread, even
where overlays have been recently applied.   There is little planning of
routine maintenance and works tend to be carried out on an ad hoc basis.
Repair work is often poorly implemented and the continuous re-appearance of
potholes at the same locations throughout the network is evidence of
serious deficiencies in the work methods and/or materials used.
1.20       Traffic Law Enforcement.  The enforcement of control over both
stationary and moving traffic is defective in the whole KMR area but
particularly critical in the downtown area.   The institutional framework
for road and transport policy has been weak and fragmented and the problems
of public transport operations, road and traffic signal maintenance and
inadequate traffic management have all contributed to a lack of clear
guidance to the police concerning traffic control priorities.   Too often
the police are used in forceful and remedial rather than preventative
roles.  The traffic branch of the Jamaica Constabulary Force (JCF) is not
short of staff but lacks essential equipment such as motorcycles, tow
trucks, 2-way radio transmitters, support vehicles for accident squads and
training aids needed for preventative traffic control.   The staff, more-
over, is not sufficiently experienced or trained in traffic management
procedures.
1.21        Administration.   There are too many agencies involved in the
management of roads, traffic and public transport in the KMR and the
assignment of responsibilities has not always been clearly defined nor have
the functions been delegated in an appropriate manner.   Government has
decided to regroup responsibilities for managing the urban transport system
under the MPUT and MOC (W).  A unified Island Road Authority (IRA) is in
the process of being established under MOC (W); it would ultimately be
responsible for the design, construction and maintenance of all road infra-
structure throughout the island (see para. 2.15 (c) and 3.01). As a first
step in this process, Government has decided that MOC (W) would be respon-
sible for the design, construction and supervision of traffic improvement
and management schemes and for the execution of periodic road maintenance
in the KMR under the proposed project (see para. 3.01).  MPUT is in the
process of establishing the TA in order to consolidate the vehicle licens-
ing, vehicle inspection, public transport licensing and driver licensing
functions and, more importantly, to manage the privatization of public
transport operations in the KMR (see para. 1.16).



- 8 -
II. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT, OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
A. Bank Involvement in the Urban Infrastructure and Transport Sectors
2.01      Although the proposed project represents the Bank's first project
in the urban transport sector in Jamaica, the Bank has assisted in the
development of road transport throughout the island (through 5 highway pro-
jects over the last 19 years) and has supported the development of urban
infrastructure networks in the KMR (in the power and water sectors).   A
loan for the first Highway Project (Loan 408-JM) for US$5.5 million was
made in April 1965.  It helped finance detailed engineering and construc-
tion of main roads and was completed in 1973.  Follow-up projects included
the construction of arterial roads (Loan 1032, US$13.2 million, July 1974)
and focussed on road maintenance (Loan 899-JM, US$9.3 million, May 1973;
Loan 1740-JM, US$16.0 million, June 1979; and Loan 2293-JM, US$15.0 mil-
lion, June 1983) in support of Government strategy for preserving rather
than expanding the country's highway network.  Experience with these pro-
jects revealed that although delays occurred in implementation (due mainly
to severe Government budget constraints) these projects were successful in
providing an adequate national highway network.   In the KMR, the Bank has
assisted in the development of the power sector (Loan 454-JM, US$22.0 mil-
lion, June 1966; Loan 1516-JM, US$20.0 million, February 1978; and Loan
2188-JM, US$30.5 million, June 1982) and the water supply sector (Loan
598-JM, US$5.0 million, April 1969 and Loan 1146-JM, US$15.0 million, June
1975). In both sectors, Bank assistance was directed at the improvement of
infrastructure networks including  improved  maintenance.   These  projects
also suffered from financial constraints which caused delays in implementa-
tion. They nevertheless assisted in improving the efficiency of the KMR in
the  provision  of  essential  services.    Although  the project  was  of a
different nature, the Bank also financed a Sites and Services Project in
Jamaica (Loan 1003-JM, US$15.0 million, June 1974) which was largely
located  in  Kingston.      This  project  which  encountered  significant
institutional difficulties was completed on February 1983
B. Project Development
2.02        In the summer of 1979, the Government approached the Bank to
discuss the possibility of an urban transport project in the KMR.  Follow-
ing  the  dramatic  increase  in  oil  prices  after  1977,  the  Government
initiated a program of energy conservation and recognized that considerable
potential existed not only to improve the efficiency of the urban transport
sector through improvements in road infrastructure, traffic management and
public transport operations but also to generate significant fuel and hence
foreign exchange savings from such improvements.   The Bank supported the
Government's initiative and stressed the importance of incorporating, in
the design and scope of the project, measures to conserve energy (through
reductions in vehicle operating costs) and reducing recurrent expenditures
in the public sector (through improvements in public transport operations).
2.03        By early 1980, feasibility studies were underway.   These were
undertaken by consultants Dorsch (Germany) in joint venture with Jentech
(Jamaica) financed by the Jamaican Pre-investment Program under terms of
reference and procedures agreed by the Bank.  These studies were completed
in May 1981 and demonstrated that the basic objectives of intervention in
the sector could be met and that significant foreign exchange savings could
be achieved.   By December 1981, Government had completed its review of a
series of proposals concerning the future of JOS (including those recom-
mended by the feasibility study) and had decided to adopt those which



- 9 -
involved the winding up of JOS and the subsequent operation of the bus
system  by  private  operators.    This  in  turn  required  further  studies
concerning the viability of such proposals, including the viability of
minibus  operations and route franchising measures.   In March 1982,  the
Prime Minister of Jamaica requested Bank assistance to finance technical
assistance for these studies.  The Bank supported this request with funds
from the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1740-JM, US$16.0 million, July 10,
1979) to finance consultant services which were hired in the summer of
1982.
2.04         By April 1983, these studies had progressed sufficiently for
Government to announce formally:  (a) its decision to divest itself of the
operations of JOS and to lease packages of routes to private sector trans-
port entities capable of operating an efficient transport system; (b) its
decision to set-up the TA which would exercise all the powers to award,
control and monitor public transport franchises; and (c) its decision to
transfer responsibilities for the construction, maintenance and management
of the KMR road network from KSAC to MOC (W).  In addition, these studies
provided the technical, financial and economic basis not only for the pri-
vatization of public transport operations but also for the refinements in
the traffic management and road maintenance measures which are contained in
the proposed project (see paras. 2.13 - 2.15).
C. Project Rationale
2.05      The Government's initiative in disolving JOS and arranging a com-
pletely private set of franchises for the improved public transport route
system needs to be matched by a similar effort to improve the road system
and traffic management. The Government has indicated it will adopt a com-
prehensive attitude towards urban road infrastructure and the transport
which moves upon it.   The dichotomy which has existed between roads and
transport is no longer acceptable and it is recognized that the time is
opportune for roads and traffic management in the KMR to be brought up to a
standard, which would not only enable the revised public transport system
to operate efficiently (in providing the services on which 80% of the
population depends), but also assist Jamaica in meeting major macro-
economic goals of energy conservation, foreign exchange savings, reductions
in Governmental expenditure and benefits to the low-income groups.
2.06        The lack of appropriate investments in the past in the KMR' s
urban transport system has caused the system to deteriorate to the point at
which, had it not been for the decline in the economy and the subsequent
lack of increase in the number of vehicles in the roads, it could have
caused a serious breakdown in the system's ability to move goods and
people.  The increases in mobility, caused by relaxations on the importa-
tion of vehicles and the general deregulation of the economy over the past
few years, are beginning to put considerable demands on the urban transport
system.   By meeting these increasing demands with appropriate  low-cost
remedial, measures it would be possible to prevent the need for major
capital expenditures in reconstruction of the system in later years.  By
selecting  only  those  remedial  measures  which  would  be  directed  at
generating foreign exchange savings, the Government would be confirming its
concern to allocate resources only to those areas which can positively
contribute  to macro-economic  and  structural  development  goals.         The
proposed project represents an expression of these policies.



- 10 -
D. Project Objectives and Scope
2.07      The principal objective of the project would be to provide for an
adequate and efficient system of urban transport in the KMR, capable of
supporting the Government's overall economic strategy, including the use of
the private sector where feasible.  In meeting this objective the project
is designed to meet the following two conditions:
(a)   to minimize the annual amount of foreign exchange needed for the
operation of vehicles in the urban transport system; and
(b)   to reduce budget expenditures by Government.
2.08      The project would comprise the implementation of traffic manage-
ment and control measures, the development of road maintenance programs and
the provision of technical assistance and training facilities.   Each of
these is designed to achieve the above objectives within the framework of
the following urban transport policy measures:
(a)   the closure of JOS operations and the disposal of its assets (see
paras. 1.05 and 1.15);
(b)   the establishment of the TA (see para. 1.16); and
(c)   the reorganization of the public transport route structure and
the award of franchises to private operators (see para. 1.15).
2.09      Many of the revised bus routes use roads which have suffered ex-
tensive surface deterioration due to lack of maintenance. In addition, the
majority of these routes use intersections which are inadequately designed
and the routes converge along corridors with insufficient capacity for the
mix of vehicles and pedestrians using them.   The project is designed to
direct investment into appropriate packages of low-cost measures to ensure
the efficient operation of these routes, as a matter of priority, and also
to direct investments elsewhere in the network to provide support to bus
routings (by resolving congestion on parallel or cross-traffic routes which
would feed back and block bus route intersections for example) and to
provide for the needs of pedestrians on heavily trafficked corridors.  In
addition, the project would provide assistance to Government in staff
training in traffic management techniques and in the monitoring and evalua-
tion of the efficiency of the urban transport system.  Finally, it would
support the integration of urban development and urban transport planning
in the management of the KMR urban system as a whole.
2.10       Project Scope:  The project would finance the following traffic
management and road maintenance measures and technical assistance facili-
ties:
(a)   Traffic Management  (see Map IBRD  17505):   The improvement of
three heavily trafficked public transport corridors servicing the
commercial downtown axis of Kingston; the improvement in design
of 15 intersections along public transport routes outside the
downtown area; the rehabilitation of the existing traffic signal
system; and the addition of traffic signals to 40 intersections



- 11 -
(as part of the corridor and intersection improvements outlined
above);
(b)   Road Maintenance (see Map IBRD 17505):  As part of a comprehen-
sive six year maintenance program, the resealing and resurfacing
of selected roads in the main road network and selected sidewalk
and drainage improvements, the provision of maintenance equipment
and the construction of a central maintenance depot; and
(c)   Technical Assistance:  The provision of staff training, technical
assistance and equipment to MPUT, MOC (W), KSAC, Ministry of
Finance and Planning (Town and Country Planning Authority (MFP
(TCPA)) and the JCF.
E. Project Costs
2.11      The proposed project is estimated to cost about US$29.7 million
equivalent based on January 1984 prices. Cost estimates are detailed in
Annex 1, Tables 1, 2, 3 and 4, and are summarized in the table below:
Summary of Project Costs
(US$ million)
Percent of    Foreign as
Project Components        Local   Foreign   Total   Base Cost        % of Total
A.  Traffic management   4.6        6.2       10.8      47.6           57.4
B.  Road maintenance      2.7       5.1       7.8       34.3           65.9
C.  Technical assistance 0.6        3.5       4.1       18.1           84.6
BASE COST                 7.9      14.8      22.7      100.0           65.2
Physical contingencies 0.6        1.1       1.7        7.6           61.8
Price contingencies    2.7        2.6       5.3       23.4           48.4
Contingencies             3.3       3.7       7.0       31.1           51.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTa/    11.2       18.5      29.7      131.1           62.0
Front end fee             -         0.1       0.1        0.1            0.1
TOTAL FINANCE REQUIRED  11.2       18.6      29.8b/    -
a/  Identifiable local taxes and duties amount to J$ 19.56 million (US$5.94
million) or 20% of total project costs.



- 12 -
2.12       Cost estimates were based on final designs for the traffic signal
component, on advanced preliminary designs for the public transport corri-
dor improvement schemes, on preliminary designs for the road maintenance
component and on extrapolation of sample preliminary designs for the inter-
section improvement schemes.  Final designs have been prepared by UDC for
Spanish Town Road (Section C), which is scheduled to be executed within the
first year of project implementation  (see also para. 3.03).   Base cost
estimates are expressed in prices of January 1984 and are based on consult-
ant's quantity estimates from prevailing contract rates for equivalent work
or equipment in  Jamaica.   Physical contingencies are  estimated  at 10%.
Price contingencies have been derived from estimates of inflation at 12%
per annum  for local expenditures.   Foreign  inflation  is  assumed to  be:
7.5%  (1984); 7.0%  (1985) and 6%  (1986-1990).   The rate of exchange  is
assumed to be US$1 = J$ 3.30.
F. Project Components
(i)   Traffic Management Measures
2.13       Traffic management measures represent the most important category
of investment (48% of base costs) as they are expected to provide the
greatest contribution to improving the efficiency of public transport oper-
ations as well as generating net foreign exchange savings through reduc-
tions in vehicle operating costs.  The greatest amount of investment (30%)
would be used for improving traffic flow along the following three most
heavily travelled public transport corridors in the KMR (see Map IBRD
17505):
(a)   Spanish Town Road Corridor (0.82 miles):  The rehabilitation and
reconstruction   of  critical  road  sections   (Darling  Street,
Beckford Street and Heywood Street) and the redesign of intersec-
tions to provide access for buses between Spanish Town Road and
Parade;
(b)   Half-Way Tree - Cross Roads Corridor (0.53 miles):  The introduc-
tion of traffic control measures (one way systems), bus priority
facilities (bus lanes), bus interchange facilities, and the rede-
sign of intersections and the reconstruction and improvement of
sidewalks in order to relieve traffic congestion, and provide for
better bus access and interchange in accordance with the revised
bus routing proposals in the area; and
(c)   Hope Road Corridor (0.85 miles):  The rehabilitation and redesign
of the carriageway and intersections of Hope Road (between East
King's House Road and Barbican Road) to increase its capacity to
accommodate increased volumes of bus traffic; the carriageway
would be widened from two lanes to four lanes within the existing
right of way.
2.14       The remaining investments in traffic management measures concern
intersection improvements and traffic signals (see Map IBRD 17505).
Fifteen intersections have been identified as requiring improvements in
order to provide adequate levels of service for proposed public transport



- 13 -
flows.   The improvements involve the redesign of each junction to permit
turning movements, increase capacity, reduce delay and improve safety. The
existing traffic signal system would be extensively rehabilitated in order
to function efficiently and be a more effective tool in the management and
control of traffic flow. In addition, some 40 junctions would be signaliz-
ed as part of the corridor improvement and intersection improvement
packages (outlined above).  The new system would respond to micro-computer
control in order to acccommodate different traffic demand profiles and
therefore reduce delay and, consequently, vehicle operating costs.
(ii)   Road Maintenance
2.15      Road maintenance facilities would represent 34% of base costs and
are expected to generate the greatest proportion of foreign exchange
savings.   Many bus routes traverse roads which have suffered extensive
surface deterioration due to lack of maintenance; in addition, much of the
principal traffic route network, the residential access road network, and
the sidewalks in the metropolitan area require urgent attention to avoid
the  need  for  extensive  reconstruction.    A  six year  road  and  footway
maintenance program for the road network in the KSAC area has been develop-
ed based upon agreed routine and periodic maintenance criteria in which
periodic maintenance (sealing and resurfacing) would be carried out by con-
tract and routine maintenance, including trench re-instatement, would be
carried out by force account.  The road maintenance component of this pro-
ject would be limited to financing part of a six year periodic maintenance
program, equipment purchase, depot construction and technical assistance
requirements of this program (the balance of the periodic and the routine
maintenance would be financed by budget allocations (see para. 3.16)):
(a)   Periodic Maintenance:   The resealing of 12-17 miles of residen-
tial access roads per annum (75-100 miles over the six year
period); the resurfacing of 28 miles (or 66%) of principal
traffic roads and the rehabilitation of their curbs and footways;
the rehabilitation of curbs and sidewalks for roads carrying
heavy pedestrian flows; and local drainage improvements would be
undertaken at 35 locations to improve traffic flow and avoid the
disintegration of carriageways;
(b)   Equipment Purchase and Depot Construction:   Routine maintenance
and trench re-instatement, which is estimated to cost J$ 6.0
million (US$1.8 million) per annum and employ approximately 290
persons, would be carried out by the staff and equipment directly
managed by KSAC.   In order to strengthen the capacity of the
roads and works section of the City Engineer's Department of KSAC
the project would include the construction of a central depot to
consolidate  the  organization  and   management   of  men  and
equipment.   The project would also provide for the purchase of
some 60 units of maintenance equipment; and



- 14 -
(c)   Reorganization of Road Maintenance Functions:  The establishment
of a separate and autonomous road maintenance unit within the
Roads and Works Section of KSAC which, if government so decided,
(see para. 1.21) could be eventually transferred to MOC (W) or
the new Island Road Authority (IRA). The subdivision by July 1,
1984 of a plan satisfactory to the Bank for the reorganization
of the Roads and Works Section of KSAC would be a proposed
condition of the loan (see para. 7.01 (a)).
(iii)   Technical Assistance and Training
2.16        Technical assistance and training would represent 18% of base
costs and would assist Government in the implementation of the proposed
project and to provide for improved efficiency in the management of the
urban transport system in the KMR.   A uniform allowance of 10% has been
made on the cost of all infrastructure components to cover the costs of de-
sign, tendering and supervision of civil works. Technical assistance costs
have been estimated at J$ 11.7 million (US$3.5 million), covering 4961/
staff months at an average cost of US$8,000 per month for staff recruited
from overseas and US$4,000 per month for staff recruited locally.
2.17         Technical assistance,  staff training and equipment would be
provided to the following agencies:
(a)   Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport (84 staff months);
(b)   Ministry of Construction (Works) (216 staff months);
(c)   The Kingston St. Andrew Corporation (130 staff months);
(d)   Ministry of Finance and Planning (30 staff months); and
(e)   Jamaica Constabulary Force (36 staff months).
G. Project Financing Plan
2.18       The project requires an investment of J$ 98.0 million (US$29.7
million).    Government  would  finance  the  local  costs  of  the  project,
including taxes and duties, estimated to be J$ 37.2 million (US$11.2
million) from its own budgetary resources over the 7 1/2 year implementa-
tion period.  The foreign exchange requirements of the project amount to
US$18.5 million of which US$2.6 million concern the proposed traffic signal
system.   Arrangements for financing the foreign exchange costs  of this
system are being discussed with export credit agencies.   The proceeds of
the Bank loan would finance the remaining foreign exchange requirements of
US$16.0 million (54% of total project costs plus the front end fee of
US$39,900).   The indicative project investment plan is presented in the
table below. Retroactive financing is recommended for expenditures up to a
total of US$0.5 million equivalent for consulting services, preparatory
1/   Three-hundred eighty-eight staff months are expected to be recruited
from overseas and 108 staff months are expected to be recruited
locally.



- 15 -
civil works and technical assistance carried out after May 15, 1983 which
are required to comply with the implementation schedule (see para. 7.01
(e)).
Indicative Project Investment Plan
(Jamaica Fiscal Year)
(US$ million)a/
Financing Sources   1983   1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990 Total
Government           0.3    1.9   3.3   1.9   1.5   1.1   0.9   0.3   11.2
Bank                 0.2c/  3.6   5.4   3.2   1.2   1.1   0.9   0.3   15.9
Co-financingb/        -      -    0.4   1.5   0.7   -        -     -     2.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST  0.5    5.5   9.1   6.6   3.4   2.2   1.8   0.6   29.7
a/ Current prices.
b/  Discussions with export credit agencies for co-financing arrangements
are underway.
c/  To be retroactively financed in 1984.
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Arrangements
3.01        Government is moving toward the unification of road transport
activities under the proposed Island Road Authority (see para. 1.21) which
is consistent with the concept of integrated physical planning for the
island as a whole.  As a part of this process and consistent with the con-
cern not to burden KSAC with the technical, financial and managerial re-
sponsibilities involved in the implementation of the project (at a time
when the future of KSAC is under review (see para. 1.08)), Government has
decided that the Ministry of Construction (Works) (MOC (W)) would be re-
sponsible for the overall implementation of the project. This represents a
logical choice as KSAC is in such disarray that MOC (W) has been performing
infrastructure and traffic engineering work in KSAC's behalf for some
time. It is, moreover, consistent with the notion that it would be appro-
priate for the national Government to assume an increasing role in the
management of the KMR (see para. 1.07).  A condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan would be that arrangements satisfactory to the Bank would
have been entered into between MOC (W) and KSAC (see para. 7.02 (c)).
3.02      The Directorate of Major Projects (DMP) within MOC (W) has set up
a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to coordinate the execution, supervi-
sion, monitoring and evaluation of project components.   DMP has been re-
sponsible for the implementation of several externally financed development
projects (including Bank-financed highway projects).  Although MOC (W) and
DMP have not been previously involved in the preparation and implementation
of urban transport projects per se, the construction techniques and proce-
dures are very similar to those used in highway projects and the DMP in
particular has proven experience in:   (a) the scheduling of civil works;



- 1 6 -
(b) the hiring of consultants for project design, engineering and supervi-
sion; (c) the bidding of civil works contracts; (d) the supervision of site
works, including reporting, monitoring and evaluation; and (e) the prepara-
tion, approval and monitoring of disbursement applications and the mainte-
nance of project accounts.
3.03        The Urban Development Corporation (UDC) would be the executing
agency for the MOC (W) for the design, construction and supervision of
civil works associated with Spanish Town Road Section C (the improvements
would take place within the area designated as the West Kingston Market Re-
development Area under the jurisdiction of UDC).   The MOC (W) would be
responsible for the execution and supervision of traffic management
measures, including the installation of traffic signals.   These arrange-
ments would be condition of the proposed loan (see para. 7.01  (f).  A con-
dition of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be that arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank would have been entered into between MOC (W) and
UDC (see para. 7.02 (c)).
3.04       DMP within MOC (W) would be responsible for the execution of the
perodic maintenance component (including the supervision of associated
technical assistance and training programs) and for the execution of the
civil works associated with the construction of the central maintenance
depot in collaboration with KSAC. These arrangements would be a condition
of the proposed loan (see para. 7.01 (g)). The submission by July 1 , 1984,
of a plan satisfactory to the Bank for the reorganization of the Roads and
Works Section of the Engineering Department of KSAC and the recruitment of
key staff (a road maintenance engineer) and technical assistance posts (a
consultant/accountant) would be a proposed loan covenant (see para. 7.01
(a)).
3.05       Each of the recipient agencies for technical assistance, training
and equipment (MPUT, KSAC, JCF, MFP, MOC (W)) would recruit technical
assistance,  organize  training  programs  and  procure  equipment under the
general supervision of MOC (W) which would have overall responsibility for
the implementation of the project (see para. 3.01).
3.06        The Traffic Engineering Section (TES) within the Directorate of
Technical Services (DTS) in MOC (W) would be responsible for all traffic
management measures associated with the public transport corridor schemes
and intersection improvements; in addition, DTS would be responsible for
the rehabilitation and installation of traffic signals.
3.07        The project would be implemented between May 1983 and December
1990 (see Annex 1, Table 5).  The procurement of equipment is expected to
be completed by mid-1985 and the installation of traffic signal equipment
is expected to take place during 1985 and 1986 (by which time the civil
works for the public transport corridor schemes are expected to have been
completed).
B. Procurement
3.08       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.



- 17 -
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method                            Total
Project Element    ICB           LCB         Other    N.A.           Cost
Civil works          9.1         11.0         -         -            20.1
(4.7)       (6.1)                              (10.8)
Equipment            1.5          0.7         3.4       -             5.6
(1.4)       (0.6)        (0.2)                  (2.2)
Services             -            -           4.0       -             4.0
(3.0)                  (3.0)
TOTAL            10.6         11.7         7.4       -            29.7
(6.1)       (6.7)        (3.2)      -          (16.0)
NOTE:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the Bank loan.
3.09         Procurement of civil works, materials and equipment would be
subject to prior review by the Bank.  Procurement of civil works, materials
and equipment estimated to cost over US$1 .0 million for the public trans-
port corridors (amounting to US$9.7 million in aggregate) and for the con-
struction of the proposed maintenance depot (amounting to US$0.9 million)
would be through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (July 1980).  Contracts for each of
the 15 intersection improvements amounting to US$1.9 million in aggregate,
and for the periodic maintenance program (resealing, resurfacing, sidewalk
and curb rehabilitation and local drainage improvements) amounting to
US$9.1 million would be through local competitive bidding procedures which
are acceptable to the Bank and which are on file.   It is expected that
individual contract packages would be too small to attract the interest of
foreign bidders;  they would, however, be entitled to participate.   These
arrangements would be a condition of the proposed loan (see para. 7.01
(h)).
3.10         The programs for the procurement of vehicles,  miscellaneous
maintenance equipment and traffic engineering and law enforcement equipment
would be subject to prior review by the Bank.  Contracts with an estimated
cost of more than US$50,000 each, amounting to US$1 .5 million, would be
procured through ICB, following the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (July
1980); other contracts for miscellaneous equipment and vehicles, associated
with the technical assistance and training programs, with an estimated cost
below US$50,000 but not exceeding an aggregate of US$0.7 million would be
procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank,  with  foreign suppliers permitted to bid.   For contracts
smaller than US$10,000, local shopping would be used, involving at least
three price quotations from open suppliers listings.   This is expected to
total no more than US$0.2 million. These arrangements would be a condition
of the proposed loan (see para. 7.01 (h)).



- 18 -
3.11       Technical assistance consultants would be selected and recruited
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August
1981).   This would be a condition of the proposed loan (see para. 7.01
(h)).  The programs for the procurement of training facilities and ancil-
lary items (travel and subsistance) would be subject to prior review by the
Bank.
C. Disbursement
3.12      Disbursements of the loan would be made as follows:
(a)   100% of foreign expenditures and 51% of local expenditures for
civil works (US$9.2 million equivalent);
(b)   100%  of  foreign expenditures  for direct imports  of equipment
(US$1.9 million equivalent);
(c)   100% of foreign expenditures and 33% of local expenditures for
technical assistance and training (US$2.3 million equivalent);
(d)   100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures for
design and supervision (US$0.3 million equivalent);
(e)   Front-end fee of US$39,900;
(f)   Initial deposit into the Special Account (US$0.6 million equiva-
lent); and
(g)   Unallocated (US$1.6 million equivalent).
3.13        Disbursements would be made against standard documentation for
all items except those under US$10,000 equivalent for which disbursements
would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOE) certified by DMP.
The estimated schedule of disbursements, shown in Annex 1, Table 6, is
based on the anticipated investment schedule, allowing for a nine-month lag
for the processing of withdrawal applications. The period of disbursements
would be 7 1/2 years with the loan closing date at September 30, 1991.
3.14      There is insufficient experience with urban transport projects to
prepare a significant average historical profile. The 7 1/2 year period of
disbursement  is  equivalent  to  the  average  historical  profiles  for
transportation  projects  in  the  region  (7.5  years).    The  7  1/2  year
disbursement period for the proposed project is considered to be realistic
for the following reasons:
(a)   disbursements of Bank loans in Jamaica have been timely in recent
years (which reflects the impact of structural adjustment lend-
ing) and the performance of ongoing projects in the last two
years has improved (due in part to the economic environment
becoming more favorable);



- 19 -
(b)   the proposed project is concentrated in one area and has a small
number of components which would aid coordination and management
of project execution;
(c)   the proposed Special Account and Project Account to be set up in
the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ) (see para. 3.15) would avoid delays in
the disbursement of both foreign and local funds; and
(d)   in the past, the single most serious obstacle to timely project
execution has been the lack of skilled personnel in the public
sector, therefore substantial technical assistance is proposed
under the project and would be concentrated in the areas of pro-
ject implementation, scheduling and supervision which would re-
duce delays caused by insufficient project management resources.
D. Special Accounts
Special Account and Project Account
3.15       In order to reduce the interval between the time payments would
be made by the Borrower and receipt of reimbursement from the Bank, a Spe-
cial Account and a Project Account would be established in the Bank of
Jamaica (BOJ). The Special Account would be denominated in US dollars and
would be established with an initial deposit of US$0.6 million, approxi-
mately equivalent to average projected quarterly disbursements.   The Pro-
ject Account would consist of an equivalent advance and an advance equiva-
lent to the Government's counterpart contribution (estimated to total J$3.3
million (US$1 .0 million) and would be used by MOC (W)/DMP for project ex-
penditures. The BOJ would request replenishment of the Special Account by
the Bank on the basis of standard disbursement procedures (see para.
3.13). Conversion from US dollars to Jamaica dollars would be made at the
official exchange rate prevailing on the date the related project expendi-
tures were incurred if payment has taken place within 60 days of the date
of withdrawal otherwise on the date of withdrawal.   The establishment of
both accounts would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(see para. 7.02 (a)). The assurance by Government that the Project Account
would be replenished in respect of amounts withdrawn would be a condition
of the proposed loan (see para. 7.01 (d)).
Routine Maintenance Account
3.16        The road maintenance equipment and central maintenance depot
included in the project are designed not only for the periodic maintenance
program included in the project but also to improve the periodic and
routine maintenance activities which are the responsibility of KSAC but
which would not be financed by the project.   The recurrent expenditures
associated with the routine maintenance program agreed with the Bank would
be provided by Government to KSAC.  The present systems of budgeting and
accounting of recurrent expenditures on routine maintenance are not ade-
quate to support the improvements in routine maintenance that the equipment
and depot (to be financed under the project) are designed to achieve.  It
has therefore been agreed with Government that a separate account would be



- 20 -
established, maintained and adequately funded in KSAC for expenditures con-
cerning the routine maintenance programs agreed with the Bank.  The estab-
lishment and funding of this account would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan (see para. 7.02  (b)).   That the Government would
ensure a level of funding in the recurrent budget allocations for KSAC
sufficient for the carrying out of the routine road maintenance programs
agreed between Government and the Bank would be a condition of the proposed
loan (see para. 7.01 (c)).
E. Financial Reporting and Auditing
3.17      MOC (W)/DMP would establish and maintain the separate component-
related accounts with responsibilities for their consolidation in the Pro-
ject Implementation Unit under the supervision of the Financial Control-
ler. Such accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound and gener-
ally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the
Bank to enable MOC (W) to provide interim and annual financial statements
to reflect the progress and financing of the project and its component
parts. The Government would arrange for the Auditor General to provide to
the Bank within seven months of the close of the fiscal year, as from FY
1983/84, annual audit reports of: (a) component-related accounts; (b) the
Project Account; (c) the Special Account; and (d) the KSAC routine mainte-
nance account. The audit reports would include statements on the adequacy
of the accounting systems and internal controls, on the reliability of SOEs
as a basis for loan disbursements and on the compliance with loan cove-
nants.  These arrangements would be a condition of the proposed loan (see
para. 7.01 (i)).
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.18       Project execution would be reviewed through normal supervision.
DMP would carry out systematic monitoring of project execution in order to
assess, on a monthly basis, the physical and financial status of project
components, including any implementation issues which would require the up-
dating of project costs and schedules.   DTS and MPUT would monitor the
effectiveness of project components in meeting specific and overall project
objectives by using programs which would measure changes in service levels
for public transport in particular and traffic in general.
3.19      For project execution, DMP would monitor scheduling, quantities,
costs, contractual changes, and the achievement of selected physical and
technical targets.  The key indicators presented in Annex 1, Table 7 would
be used to measure progress and provide the basis for quarterly reports to
the Bank describing planned and actual accomplishments in the quarter,
reasons for any deviations, an update of the program for the following
quarter and a statement of problems encountered, solved, pending or expect-
ed. The content and timing of these progress reports would be a condition
of the proposed loan (see para. 7.01 (j)).
3.20       In order to assess the effectiveness of the project in meeting
its objectives, DTS would monitor traffic-related indicators and MPUT would
monitor public transport-related indicators.  DMP would be responsible for



- 21 -
the consolidation of both programs for review by the Bank.  The specific
variables to be measured are presented in Annex 1 , Table 8, in the form of
key indicators. For public transport operations, they would include travel
time, cost and frequency of service, passenger loadings, and the perform-
ance of franchise holders in meeting the conditions of the franchises; for
general traffic, they would include vehicle operating costs, speed and
delay surveys, traffic volumes, accidents and law enforcement; and for road
maintenance aspects, they would include measurement of road surface condi-
tions. These variables would be measured on a sample basis, before, during
and after the implementation of improvements and would form the basis for:
(a) assessing the effectiveness of each component in producing expected
benefits, especially with regard to foreign exchange savings; (b) the need
for any modification in the design or operation of such components in order
to achieve the expected benefits; and (c) the need to reformulate the
range, scale or type of benefits to be expected from the execution of pro-
ject elements.   In comparison with actual cost data,  these measures of
benefits would enable the economic justification to be verified ex post.
In addition, the benefits of reorganizing the management and operation of
bus services and staff training would be monitored and evaluated on the
basis of the specific financial and organizational indicators shown in
Annex 1, Table 9 and Table 10.
IV. FINANCIAL IMPACT
A. Impact on the KMR Urban Transport Sector
4.01       The analysis of the financial impact of the project is designed
to assess the extent to which the project would achieve one of its princip-
al objectives, namely the reduction in budget expenditures by Government in
the urban transport sector, especially the subsidization of public trans-
port operation in the KMR, (see para. 1.05). As a whole, the urban trans-
port sector has been contributing an annual surplus to the Government's
budget.  Without the project, this surplus could be expected to reduce in
constant terms from J$ 50.5 million (US$15.8 million) in FY 1983 to J$ 41.2
million (US$12.5 million) by FY 1990 due to the continuation of subsidies
to JOS. The project is expected to generate sufficient budget expenditure
savings to increase the surplus in constant terms, to the J$ 60.0 - 70.0
million (US$18.2 - 21.2 million) range during the FY 1983-90 period.   In
current, prices, the surplus is expected to increase from J$ 56.8 million
(US$17.2 million) in FY 1983 to J$ 153.2 million (US$46.4 million) by FY
1990, a cumulative surplus of J$ 966.4 million (US$292.8 million) or an
average of J$ 120.8 million (US$36.6 million) per annum over the 8-year
period  (see Annex 1 , Table ll) even though  the lower fuel consumption
generated by the project (see Chapter V) is expected to lower the revenues
from excise taxes.
4.02         These increases in the net surplus are caused by the recent
(November 1983) devaluation which will lead to an increase in revenues from
imported items (such as fuel excise duty) in relation to expenditures and
by the following project-related factors:
(a)   the JOS subsidy would be reduced and then eliminated with the
planned structural changes in the public transport sector.  The



- 22 -
expenditures for the latter half of FY 1983-84 through FY 1988-89
are the costs of liquidation.  No new operating losses or cash
subsidies would occur beyond FY 1983-84.  This would add about
J$ 8.0 million (US$2.4 million) per year to the surplus in
FY 1985-88.  In subsequent years, when the liquidation had been
completed, it would add about J$ 16.0 million (US$4.8 million)
per year to the surplus;
(b)   franchising fees are expected to exceed franchising expenses by
up to J$ 1.6 million (US$0.5 million) per year; and
(c)   it is expected that KSAC would not need  to make any capital
investments in roads outside the proposed project and a proposed
condition of the loan would be that the Government would notify
the Bank of any proposals for capital investments in urban
infrastructure in the Kingston Metropolitan Region which may
affect the proposed project (see para. 7.01 (b)).
B. Impact on the Central Government Budget
4.03      Capital Budget.  The expected cost of the project is J$ 98.0 mil-
lion (US$29.7 million), including J$ 61.1 million (US$18.5 million) in
foreign exchange and J$ 36.9  (US$11.2 million)  in local currency.   The
estimated capital budget for Jamaica for FY 1983-88 is about J$ 4.3 billion
(US$1.3 billion) and the expenditures for the project over this period
would amount to J$ 90.0 million (US$27.3 million) which represents 21% of
capital expenditures.   The expenditures for the year which requires the
greatest commitment of resources (FY 1985-86) would be 1 .9% of the capital
budget for that year. As indicated in para. 4.01, the sector as a whole is
providing a surplus of revenues over expenditures which would be larger
with the project than without the project.   The level of existing charges
(gasoline taxes, revenues from vehicle licenses, etc.) would more than
cover the costs of the project and other urban transport sector
investments, operations and maintenance.
4.04      Debt Service.  The Government would start repaying the Bank loan
for the project in 1987-88.  It is assumed that suppliers credits associat-
ed with the traffic lights provided in the project would have a medium
term, no grace period, and an interest rate of 9%.2/ The estimated maxi-
mum debt service in one year associated with the Bank loan and the loan for
suppliers credit would be US$3.4 million3/ reached in 1992. This would re-
present about 0.6% of total official debt service payments in 1986,
2/   These assumptions are derived from prevailing terms sampled by the
mission.
3/ Bank loan = US$2.9 million in 1993 based on 10.5% interest and standard
Bank terms for Jamaica.
Suppliers credit = US$0.5 million based on 8.5% interest and 8 years of
level payments.



- 23 -
assuming a level of debt service payments of US$543 million4/ for
Jamaica. Assuming that total official debt service payments would increase
in roughly the same annual percentage between 1986 and 1992 and as estimat-
ed between 1982 and 1986, debt service for the project in 19925/ would be
0.3% of total official debt service.
4.05        Recurrent Budget.  The works associated with the project would
imply recurrent annual costs for maintenance and operation of J$ 0.91
million (US$0.28 million) (see Annex 1, Table 12), based on an assessment
of experience in other countries in maintaining similar works and equip-
ment.  This constitutes 0.6% of the existing Government recurrent budget,
and would not represent an undue burden to the Government.  Furthermore,
the actual impact on the budget would be even smaller. The periodic main-
tenace component would eliminate future road restoration costs and reduce
routine maintenance expenditures on these existing roads and about 2/3 of
the new traffic lights would substitute for more expensive repairs of
existing  lights.    The  corridor  improvement  schemes  and  intersection
improvements would also reduce future routine maintenance costs because
entire road sections would be brought to a better standard with less
maintenance required.   Without taking rehabilitation of existing traffic
lights into account, net recurrent costs associated with the project would
be only about J$ 170,000 (US$51 ,500) per year.
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Summary of the Results of the Economic Analysis
5.01        The approach adopted to evaluate the economic viability of the
project and its component parts reflects the key objective of the project,
namely the provision of an adequate and efficient system of urban transport
in the KMR selected and designed to minimize the annual amount of foreign
exchange needed for the operation of vehicles in such a system (see para.
2.07).   Thus, the effectiveness of each component in terms of economic
performance was assessed in the context of these objectives.
5.02          Economic analyses were performed  on all project components
including technical assistance.  As shown in the table on the next page,
all project components are strongly justified. The weighted average IRR is
67% in terms of vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings and 62% in terms of
foreign  exchange  savings.   No time  savings  have been included, in the
benefit streams.  It has been estimated that the IRR's would increase by
five to ten percentage points if time savings were to be included.  The
road maintenance component is expected to yield the highest rates of return
of around 188% which confirms the cost effectiveness of improved road
maintenance in generating VOC savings in urban transport operations.  The
estimated savings in foreign exchange amount to J$ 132.2 million (US$40.1
million) in present values, which represents a savings of J$ 12.0 million
(US$3.6 million) per year (conservatively assuming a weighted average life
of project investments of 11 years).  This would represent about 1% of the
current account deficit on the balance of payments and approximately 20% of
petroleum consumption in the KMR in 1982 and 10% of national consumption in
4/ As projected in Annex 1 , p.6 of the President's Report for the Second
Structural Adjustment Operation.
5/ This is the maximum debt service payment needed for the project.



- 24 -
ECONOMIC EVALUATION:  SUMMARY RESULTS
(in J$ million)
VOC Savings                          Foreign Exchange Savings
Ccmponent                 Costs   Benefits   NPV       B/C IRR    Costs   Benefits   NPV   B/C   IRE
Spanish Town Road Corridor 7.68    23.04      15.36   3.0  34%    3.99    14.18    10.19   3.6  41%
Half WVy Tree Corridor     4.81     12.59      7.78   2.6  29%    2.56         8.35      5.79   3.3  34%
Hope Road Corridor         5-38    15.17       9.79    2.8  31%    3.05       12.17     9.12  4.0  '4
Intersection Improvennts  3.17      15.54     12.37   4.9  45%       1.82    10.29      8.47   5.6  49%
Traffic Signals            8.19    27.84      19.65   3.4  37%    7.19    17.16         9.97   2.4  28%
SUEHIOAL               29.23    94.18      64.95    3.2  35%    18.61      62.15    43.54   3.3  36%
Road Maintenance          14.70   179.22    164.52  12.2  186%    8.91    107.81       98.90  12.1  186%
SUMITCAL               43.94   273.40    229.47    6.2  86%    27.52    169.96    142.44   6.2  85%
Technical Assistance      12.29      o.oa/     -       -      C%a/ 10.27       o.0a/              -  0%a/
TOTAL                  56.22    273.40    217.18   4.9  67%    37.79    169.96    132.17   4.5  62%
a/ Internal rate of return and benefits are assumed to equal zero on technical assistance investments.



- 25 -
the transport sector. The impact of the project on improved efficiency and
productivity in the KMR has not been measured due to the lack of an
adequate methodology for such measurement. It is nevertheless evident that
the impact would be positive and that the project would contribute to
greater efficiency in the functioning of the urban economy.
5.03         The benefit-cost ratios average 4.9:1.0 for VOC savings and
4.5:1.0 for foreign exchange savings which demonstrates the highly cost
effective nature of the proposed project investments.   These ratios are
particularly significant in the case of foreign exchange savings which
range from 2.4:1.0 in the case of the Traffic Signals Component (for which
foreign exchange amounts to 14% of investment costs) to 12.0:1.0 for the
resealing and resurfacing programs of the road maintenance component (for
which foreign exchange amounts to 37% of investment costs).   The total
economic investment in foreign exchange in the project, which would amount
to US$11.5 million, would generate foreign exchange savings of US$40.1
million in present values which represents a foreign exchange earnings
ratio of 1:3.5.
5.04      The estimated foreign exchange savings are considered to be con-
servative in that the results presented are derived from the analyses of
project components at below optimum performance:
(a)   in the calculation of the NPV's and IRR's of the traffic signal
system the benefits from reduced delays were halved and compared
with the full cost of the system;
(b)   in the calculation of the NPV's and IRR's for the road mainte-
nance component the benefits to be generated from fuel savings
were reduced by 25% and the life of the investments was reduced
from 14-16 years to 10 years; and
(c)   in the calculation of NPV's and IRR's for the corridor improve-
ments (and especially Spanish Town Road) the impact of induced
traffic (e.g., traffic currently not passing through the area due
to congestion) and associated benefits were not calculated.
B. Distribution of Project Benefits
5.05       The approach used to estimate the urban poverty impact of the
project was to estimate for each component the proportion of benefits that
would be likely to accrue to the population of the KMR who are considered
to be below the Bank's urban poverty threshold of US$355 per annum per
capita (see para. 1.06). This population is estimated to amount to around
225,000 people, of whom 200,000 are estimated to benefit indirectly from
project components.
5.06      Improved efficiencies in the public transport system are estimat-
ed to have the potential of reducing expenditures on transport up to J$
3.00 (US$0.90) per household per week which represents around 4% of house-
hold income and 28% of current expenditures on transport for the urban poor
(see para. 1.07).   All investments proposed in public transport corridor
improvements, intersection improvements and traffic signal improvements
would contribute extensively to these improved efficiencies in public



- 26 -
transport operations.  Around 75% of road maintenance investments would be
directed to improvements along bus routes and at least 25% of technical
assistance investments could be considered to be concerned directly with
the improvement of public transport services.   Overall, 78% of project
investments can be considered to contribute toward improved public tran-
sport services and, hence to generate direct benefits to the urban poor,
who make up the majority of public transport passengers.
VI. PROJECT RISKS
6.01       Any new program involving a decisive change in policy, such is
the case with the Government's decision to privatize public transport
operations in the KMR,  necessarily carries certain risks.   These could
include the unwillingness or inability of the private sector to respond to
Government's initiative, the lack of adherence to prescribed schedules by
private operators and the development of a complex and inefficient bureauc-
racy in the TA to administer the franchise system at ever increasing cost
to Government. The preparatory studies have examined these risks and they
have been taken into account as much as possible in the design of the
franchising process and of the TA (see para. 1.16).   The Government has
shown a serious and sustained commitment to the realization of this policy
over the two years of its preparation and refinement. Safeguards to detect
and respond to problems with the franchising system have been built into
the franchise agreements themselves and into the monitoring procedures to
be adopted by TA.
6.02      The role of MOC (W), as compared with that of KSAC, in coordina-
ting the execution of the project would imply a new approach to the manage-
ment of the urban transport system in the KMR.  This would also involve a
certain number of risks. However, the design of the execution process and
its coordination (see para. 3.01) takes into account the constraints of
human and institutional resources within MOC  (W) and KSAC.   Sufficient
technical assistance would be provided (see paras. 2.16 and 2.17) not only
to ensure adequate project execution but also to assist in the training and
motivation of a cadre of local staff who would become specialized and ex-
perienced in technical aspects of urban transport management.   This would
help ensure continuity of management at the technical level, whatever
administrative or institutional arrangements are ultimately selected by
Government.
6.03         The problems encountered in the execution of previous Bank-
financed projects in Jamaica which depended on central Government budget
allocation essentially concerned the achievement of physical progress,
largely due to the constraints in financial resources experienced by
Jamaica in the late 1970s. The potential for problems associated with the
fiscal ability of Government to meet counterpart financing requirements on
schedule still exists, despite the recent improvements in the performance
of the economy.   The financial surpluses which would be generated by the
project (see para. 4.01) would be sufficient to ensure adequate budget al-
locations are maintained throughout the project execution period.   More-
over, the proposed monitoring and evaluation programs (see paras. 3.18 -
3.20) would be capable of detecting any potential fiscal constraints suffi-
ciently in advance for remedial actions to be taken ahead of time.



- 27 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01        At negotiations, assurances were received by Government on the
following matters:
(a)   by July 1 , 1984, the submission of a plan satisfactory to the
Bank for the reorganization of the Roads and Works Section of the
Engineering Department of KSAC and the appointment of a road
maintenance engineer and an accountant (SAR 2.15 (c) and 3.04; LA
3.04 (i) and (ii));
(b)   the Government shall notify the Bank of any proposals for capital
investments in urban transport infrastructure in the Kingston
Metropolitan Region which, in its opinion, may affect the econom-
ic criteria underlying the project (SAR 4.02 (c); LA 4.04);
(c)   the Government would ensure a level of funding in the recurrent
budget allocations for KSAC sufficient for the carrying out of
the routine road maintenance program agreed between Government
and the Bank (SAR 3.16; LA 4.03 (c) (i) (ii) and (iii));
(d)   the project account would be replenished in respect of amounts
withdrawn (SAR 3.15; LA 3.01 (c) (iii));
(e)   the retroactive financing of expenditures up to a total of US$0.5
million equivalent for consulting services, preparatory civil
works and technical assistance carried out after May 15, 1983
(SAR 2.18; LA Schedule I, para. 4);
(f)   UDC would be the executing agency for the MOC (W) for the design,
construction and supervision of civil works associated with the
Spanish Town Road (Section C). The MOC (W) would be responsible
for the execution and supervision of traffic management measures,
including the installation of traffic lights, associated with the
Spanish Town Road Corridor (SAR 3.03; LA 3.02 (a) (i));
(g)   DMP within MOC (W) would be responsible for the execution of the
periodic maintenance component (including supervision of associ-
ated technical assistance and training programs) and for the
execution of the civil works associated with the construction of
the central maintenance depot in collaboration with KSAC (SAR
3.04; LA 3.02 (a) (ii));
(h)   the proposed procurement arrangements (SAR 3.09; 3.10 and 3.11;
LA 2.03, 3.03; Schedule 4);
(i)   the financial reporting and auditing arrangements (SAR 3.17; LA
4.02 (a) (b) (c) and (d)); and
(j)   the content and timing of progress reports concerning project
execution (SAR 3.19; LA 3.06 (a) and (b)).



- 28 -
7.02       In addition, the following would be special conditions of effec-
tiveness:
(a)    establishment of the Special Account and estab:ishment and ini-
tial funding of the Project Account (SAR 3.15; LA 2.02 (b), 3.01
(c), 6.01 (a) and (b));
(b)   establishment and funding of a separate account in the Roads and
Works Department of KSAC related to routine road maintenance
activities (SAR 3.16; LA 4.03 (c) (ii) and 6.01 (d)); and
(c)   arrangements satisfactory to the Bank would have been entered
into between MOC (W) and KSAC (SAR 3.01; LA 6.01 (c); and MOC (W)
and UDC (SAR 3.03; LA 6.01 (c)).
7.03        Subject to the above conditions and assurances the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$16.0 million for 17 years with 4 years of
grace to the Government of Jamaica.



-29-
JANLI .CA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ANNEX 1
TABLES
Table 1.    Project Costs:  Project Component by Time
Table 2.    Project Costs:  Summary Account by Time
Table 3.    Project Costs:  Summary Account by Project Component (1)
Table 4.    Project Costs:  Summary Account by Project Component (2)
Table 5.    Implementation Schedule
Table 6.    Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Table 7.    Key Indicators for Monitoring Project Execution
Table 8.    Key Indicators for Monitoring Project Effectiveness
Table 9.    Key Indicators for Measuring Financial and Organizational
Performance
Table 10.   Institutional Indicators:  Schedule of Key Events
Table 11.   Flow of Funds for the KMR Road Transport Sector
Table 12.   Estimated Annual Recurrent Maintenance Costs 'With' and
'Without' the Project



JAMAICA
FILE' SAR-CORPOIENT 2/YEAR/SYE
SEPT. 19, 1983                                                                                              KINGSTON  URBAN  TRANSPORT  PROJECT
REVISED: FEB 8, 1983
Project Costs:  Project Component by Time
(J5'000)
TOTAL COSTS
Jnlie a  Fiscal YYr                           1983                           1994                          1985                          1906                          19S7                           !985                         198                           1990                       IJ  '000)
PRDJECT NAME                      LOCAL  FOREIGN      TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREIGN    TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREIN           TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREISN    TOTAL    LOCAL  FORE1ON           TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREOON       TOTAL    LOCAL  FORE15N    TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREIGN           TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREIGN    TOTAL
TRAFFIC IVROVEttENTS                 069       193      1062      4536      4120      8656      5422      5570    10992        9b6      1226      2212        276       306       661         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0    120B8      10495      23584
INTERSECTIONS                          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         C      581        600      1180       520       557      107I       540       578      119       360       386        746      2002      2120      4123
TRAFFIC SIBSLS                         0         0         0         0         0         0       41S      0247      1665       099      5549      6240          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0      1116       6797      7903
IN     UINTERIE                        0         0         0       046      1943      z009      0820      M331      7153      2124      3<00       5435      20l0     ;232       4744      0448      I19s      zs         993       0363      2356       13i       266       452      0029      6903    25632
TECIACAL ASSISTANCE                 0II        509       620       737      4806      5553       621      3665      4296       404      0804      2290        007       559       746         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0      2070    01434       03504
TOTAL BASE COSTS                 980       702      1602      5409     00879    06298       820       153814    24095      4223     11970    16193       3055      4277      7330       1960     2514       4483      1534      1942      3475       546       652       1098    26006    48749    74755
PHYSICAL CONTINSENCIES            07         09      106       469        607      1076       766      12107     093        m6l 0    000       1309       229       312       541        145       195       343       10O       l 3       237        is        27         45      2194      3523      5700
PRICE CONTINOENCIES                0         0         0       456       622      1078       0000      2042      3853      0596      1967      4063      1645      1206      235       1402        937      2404      0464       375      2339       590        324       914      9044      8469    17513
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             1067       720      0789      6343    02300      08452      00030     09073    29930       6200     15445    20644       4929      5795      07024     3596       364l      7236      3097      2953      6051      1154       1003      2057    37244    60740    97984



JAMAICA
FILE= SAR-ACCOUNT  21rEAR/BrE                                                                                 KINGSTON  URBAN  TRANSPORT  PROJECT
SEPT. 19, 1983
REVISED: FEB. 8, 1984
Pro,ject Costs: Summary Account by Time
(J$ ' OOO)
TOTAL COSTS
Jamaica  Fiscal  Year                         1983                          1984                           1985                           1986                          198'                           1988                           1989                          1990                       1J S '0001
PROJECT  RM E                      LOCAL  FOREIGN      TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREISN       TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREG1N    TOTAL    LOCAL  FORE001            roTRL    LOCAL  FOREI6N       IOTA.    LOCAL  FORE0    N    TOTAL      LOCAL  FOREIGN       TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREIGN       TOTAL    LOCAL FEEZRN           TOTAL
DESIGN               I60                       156       316       325       318        644        B4        al8      165          0         7                   0    O          O              0         C                    0         0         0         0          0         0        69 555             1125
LAND ACQUISITION                     677         0       677       077          0       677         0         0         0          0         O         7         c          0         9         C         0          C         0         0          0        0         0          0      1554         0       1554
CIVIL NORES                           32        37        68      3029      3060      6089       7155      7886    1504!       3706      4236       ?942      26b6      371'      6586       1968      2514      4483      153$       1942      3475       346        652      1190     20835     24043    44882
EQUIPMENT                              0         a         0       340      2594       7934       230      4629      4689        90      6062       6159         0       129        147                   C         C          0         0          0        o         0          0       676     14434      15110
TECHNICAL- ASsISTANCE                111       509       627       671      3737       4408      5O       2979      3559       401       267       70551      !a        422       872          O         2          '         0         7         O          C         7         0      1941       9297     11213
SUPERYISION                            0         o          I      17b        172       248       133       226       461         19        19        28         1         C          C         C,   0               1         0         0          0        0          D         0       429       418        947
TOTAL BASE COSTS                 901        702      16B2      5419    1oB0o    16299        0282      1012    24094        A223    i1968       16891      3032      4798 7            :90E          514      44e2      1229       1942      3473       546       852      1198    26007       48748     74755
PHYSICAL COINAENCIES              07         19-      106       469       607      1076        766      121?      !9A3       381      1770       1389       229       312       534        145      !15        31         c 170     137       237         Is        27        45      2194       252Z      3717
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                 O         0 -               45b       b22      1078      1S11       2042      3853      1358      2467       4063      1643      12C6      2031      1402        912      1914      1464        872      2379       590       324        914      9044-     8469      17513
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             1067        721      1789      8243     12159      8452     :0859   19071   2990            6200    :5443    21642         4929      3797    IL'C6       1596      1.41       7236      3097      2952       bC1l      1154      1003      2157    37245       60739    97984



FILE= SAR-COMPONENT 2/GYE                                                                                                JAMAICA
SEPT. 23, 1983
REVISED: FEB 8,1984                                                                                KINGSTON  URBAN  TRANSPORT  PROJECT
Project Costs: Summary Account by Project Component (1)
(J$'000)
LAND                                                                                        -ECHNiCA.
Jamaica  Fiscal  Year                          DESIGN                     ACOQISITION                      CIVIL WO3RKS                    EQOiMTENT                       ASSIS2ANC-                      SJFERVSIJN                       BASE COSTS
PRO2ECT NAME
------------                  LOCAL  FOREIGN       TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREI3N         T2TA       LOCAL  FORDEIN      TTAL       LO.CAL  FORTEDN      TOTAL      LOCAL  FORElGN       T3A2       LOCAL  FOREIGN       TOTAL      LOCAL   FOREIGN       TOTAL
SPANISHROAD-A                          35         25         70         C          C          3       687        643      1335         15         50        65          V          0          o        75         -5         70       772        767       1539
SPANISHROAD-E                           43        42         86          V         0          C       753        773      1526         33        18        242          Q          Q                   4          42         86       E95       I049       194C
SPANISHROAD-C                          160       153       .!8        842                    42      23i:       25        4439        217        753       9795                     ^                 130        158        2:8      3b681      379        b861
SFANISHROAD TOTAL                     239        235       474        842          3        842      3742       3526      7260        287        995      1282          0          0          0       229        235        474      5348       49T2      10343
HALFWAYTREE-COMPLEX                     54        54        !08       270          3        270       E44        900      1744         21         71.       92          I          L          0        54         54        108      1243       IoBT       2322
HALFWAYTREE-R3AD                        6b        58        1l1          0         3          V       720        909      1620          4         13        10          0          0          Q        60         59        :!3       945       :337       !3e2
HALFWAYTREE-OXFORD                       s        IQ          1          6         0         56       143        147       290           1         4          50 Q                                                            s O  10  :!7        170       387
HALFWAVTREE-CROSSROIAOS                 12        12         23       113          3        112       157        162       319          0          o          0         0          0          0        12         12         22       293         185       478
HALFWAYTREE-<LIPE BRENT                 24        25         49       275          0        275       270        2895      556         22         75         97                    0                   24         25         49 "6                411      1027
HALFWAYTREE TOTAL                      159       158        217       713          0        713      2124       2402      4306         49        164       213          0          0          C:      159        158        317      2214       28E2       6096
HOPE ROAD                              170       b66        335          0         0          0      3233       3120     6b39          92        312       405          0          0          C        29         27         56      3923T      262        7148
TRAFFIC INPROVEMENTS TOTAL           567        559      1126       1555          0      155i       9:09       9049     18157        428       147:      1899          0          C          0       426        420        846     12085      il499      23584
INTERSECTIONS IMPROVEMENT                0         0          0         0          0          0      2003      2101       4124          0          0          0         0          0          C         0          C          0      2003       2121       4124
TRAFFIC SIGNALS                          0         0          0          0         0          0      ilib          o      1116          0       6797      6797          0          0                     0         0          0      1116b      6797       7913
ROAD MAINTENANCE                         0         0          0          0         0          0      8613      12874     21486        117       4030      4146          0          0          0          0         0          0      8729      16904      25632
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0          0       130      2132   2263           194:       9399     11230          3          0          3337!            1:4330      1501
TOTAL        567       559       !126      1555          0       1599     2084!    24043       44804        675      14430     15105       !94!       92918 1233            42         43         946     26005      48750      7475
H M
a   X



FILE= SAR-COMPONENT 2/GYE
SEPT. 23, 1983                                                                                                JAMAICA
REVISED: JAN 6I1984
KINGSTON URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Costs: Summary Account by Project Component (2)
(J$'300)
Jamaica Fiscal Year
BASE COSTS             PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES            SUB-TOTAL                  PRICE CONTINGENCIES             TOTAL COSTS
PROJECT NAHE
------------                                LOCAL  FOREIGN    TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREISN    TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREISN    TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREIGN    TOTAL    LOCAL  FOREI1N    TOTAL
SPANISHROAD-A                                  772      767      1539        77        77       155.     849       845      1694       187       112      299      1036       957      1993
SPANISHROAD-S                                  995      1045      1940       89       104       193      984      1149      2133        84        65       149      1068      1214     2282
SPANISHROAD-C                                 3681     3179      6861       368       318       686     4049      3498      7547       368       259       627     4417      3757      8174
-------------                           ----~-    - - -     - - -      - --     -  --     - --     - ----    --  -     - - -    -  - -    -  - -    - -  -    - -  -    - -  -
SPANISHROAD TOTAL                             5348     4992    10340        534       499      1034     5882      5491    11373        69        436      1075     6521      5927    12448
HALFWAYTREE-COMPLEX                           1243      1080      2323       124      108       232      1367      118E     2555       148        90       238      1515      1277      2793
HALFWAYTREE-ROAD                               845      1037     1882        35       104       189       930     1141      2071       195       149       344      1125      i290     2415
HALFWAYTREE-OXFORD                             217       170       387       22        17        40       240      I17       427        32        17        49       272       204       476
HALFWAYTREE-CROSSROAEiS                        293       185      478        30        19        49       322      204       527        31        14        45       353       219       572
HALFWAYTREE-SLIPE BRENT                        616       411      1027       61        40       102       b77       451     1129        56        35        91       733       486      1219
-----------------------        -----    ----~~~~-  ----   -  -- ---   -  --  -  ---      --  -      -- -     -----        -       - -       - -      -  -      -  -      -  -
HALFWAYTREE TOTAL                             3214      2882      6096       322      289       611      3536      3172     6708       462       304       766      3998      3476      7474
HOPE ROAD                                     3523      3625      7148      352       362       714      3875     3987      7863       970       612      1592      4845      4600      9445
TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS TOTAL                  12085    11499    23584       1208      1151      2359    13293    12650    25944        2071      1353      3424    15364    14003    29368
INTERSECTIONS IMPROVEMENT                     2003      2121      4124         0         0        0      2003      2121     4124      1534       784      2318      3537      2905      6443
TRAFFIC SIGNALS                               1116      6797      7913       111      681       792      1227     7477      8705       355      1314      1669      1582      8791    10373
ROAD MAINTENANCE                              8729    16904    25633         873      1691     2564      9603    18594    28197        4661     3864      8525    14264    22459    36722
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                          2071    11430    13501           0        0         0      2071    11430    13501        423      1153      1576      2494    12593    15077
TOTAL               26005    48750    74755        2193      3523     5716    28198    52273    80471         9044     8469    17513    37242    60741    97994
I-. ===
O a
M 
XD X,



JAMAICA
KINSTtN URBAN IRA1ePRT PROJECT
Implementation Sdiedle
1983            1984                    1985                   1986                   1987                   1988                    1989                 1990
PROJECT 014}EN4T             QU-titb  JAS 0ON   JFM   AM)  JAS0 N          M  IA-   JAS  OND JFM   AMJ  JAS  OND JFM   AM)  JAS  OND JFM IA)  JAS  OND  1FMI AMJ JAS  OND  JEM  AK_  JAS  08
Spanish Twn Rd. Corridor         2             _           -    1    5    1    d       b           -    _
508  100%
Part A                        2-50'                                          dddbb bxxx Xooocx ,ooo
15%  55%  100%
Part B                      2,200'              ddddd bbbbx xxxx  xxxx xoxo
11%   22%  31%   40%  53%  61%   75%   87% 100%
Part C                      5,284'   dddd dbbb bbxxx xxxxx xxxx  xxxx xxxx xOccx  xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxcox
Halfwy Tree Corridor                                                           I _
5%   25%  50%   80% 100%
Part A                         iS                bbbbb xxxxx xxox   xxxx xxxx xx0%          0     0
208 608 1(0%
Part B                       1,700'                          dddd  dddd       bbbbb xxcc  bxxx mxxx
508I 1007
Part C                         LS                            dddd  bbbb xxxc xxKc
508 100
Part 0                         LS                            dddd  bbbb mmcc  mumc
5C08100%
Part E                         600'              ddddd ddddd        bbbb MMx xxxxxKK
5%  108   208   35%  508  65%  80%   908  100%
Hope Road Corridor             7,125'                          dddd  dddd bbbb xxx=cxxc     bxx    xx xxxx x     x xx      xx xxxxc xxxx xxoo
7%  15%   22%  29%   35%  42%   49%  55%  62%   69%   75%  82 %  89%  95% 1X00%
Intersection Improvents        15ea                                                   5%    10%   20%  30%   50X  75%  100%  xxx  xxx    xxx  xox   xxx  xxx   xxx  xx   xxx   xxx   xxCc  xxx   xxx  xxx  xxx
Traffic Signals                  140 ea                                         ddddd dddd xxxcx xxxx x xx xxxxxx _xx x_c_c
Road MaThtenance-                                                            -     -    -     -     -     -    -     -     -                                                                       
5%   10%  15%   208  25%   308  35%   408  45%   508  608   65%  708   75% 80X   85%   908  95% 100%
Resealing                      128 mi                                         ddddd dddd xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxo xxxcx xxxc xc           c000ccx xcxx  bmccmx xxlcc xcxx  xxxx xxxx  xxX  xcx xxx xcx
5%   108  15%   208  25%   308  35%   408  45%   508  55%   608  65%   70%  75%   808 85%   908   95% 100%
Road Sides                      30 mi                              ddddd bbbb xxxcx xxcx xxxx      c xxxx   100cc cccx x*xxx xxxx xxxxx  xxxx xxxxx xxxxx 000c xxxx xxxxxc xxxx xxx   xxx   xxx xxx
9%   17%  25%   34%  43%   51%  608   69%  77%   86% 100%
Drainage                        35 ea                                         ddddd dddd  000  0cxx00 x0x  ccKx  0c00xx 0o ooxn   xxcr xxcxx cxxx  ,cx
25%   50% 100%
Equipient                       60 ea                              ddddd bbbb xx0xx,cc xxoc00
5%  15%   25%  408/  75% 100%
Depot Construction               I ea                                    dddd ddddd dddd bbbbb |x= xxx         )M ,cDOOM  mmooc ,ccccx x| 
Techmical Assistanoe and                 3%  8%  14%   23%   34%  45%   56%  66%    73%  78%   83%  87%   91%  93%   95%  98Y   99%  100%
Training                        526mm bbbb bbbb xxxxx xxbcco  x oc bxxxx jOcoc ,cc  xxxOO  xxxODC xxxCx xx C| x,c  |     xxx,cc xxxx |cxx x  xxxx c
Loan Effectiveness                                        X
Note: % figures represent cmulative % cowmleted during eadl quarter.
Design                 ddddd
Biddirg/Evahiation    bbbbb
Inylementation        XXXKK
LS                    luip sum (traffic mnngemnt mrsasures)



-35-
ANNX I
JAMAICA
Sd&&ae of Fatitd 8lbursets
(US$ ilium)
ID Fiscal Year           Qsarterly               Qmulatiwe                G4mulatiw
Carter Enkdr           Dislnvents                 Amoimt                  as % of total
Bmik Lomi  Cainmidng  Bmk Loi  Cofinanig total
1984
Jume     1984       0.68          -          0.68         -        0.68    .04
1985
S,tember 1984       0.03          -          0.71        -         0.71    .04
Deter 1984           0.16         -          0.87         -        0.87    .05
Mardc    1985        0.56         -          1.43         -        1.43    .08
Jane     1985       0.65          -          2.08        -         2.08    .11
1986
Setemer 1985        0.78         0.20        2.86        0.20      3.06    .16
Deceaber 1985        1.38        0.10        4.24        0.30      4.54    .24
Hard,    1986        1.67        0.10        5.91        0.40      6.31    .34
June     1986        1.30        0.10        7.21        0.50      7.71    .41
1987
Septerber 1986      0.42         1.00        7.63        1.50      9.13    .49
Deceiber  1986      0.90         0.30        8.53        1.80     10.33    .56
Mardc    1987        1.62        0.10       10.15        1.90     12.05    .65
.ilue    1987       0.18         0.70       10.33        2.60     12.93    .70
1986
Septeaer 1987       0.65          -         10.98        -        13.56    .73
Decm6ber 1987        1.44         -         12.42         -       15.02    .81
Mardi    1988        0.60         -         13.02         -       15.62    .84
Jine     1988       0.39          -         13.41         -       16.01    .86
1989
Septaembr 1988      0.32          -         13.73        -        16.33    .88
Deeirber 1988        0.29         -         14.02        -        16.62    .89
Mardi    1989        0.26         -          14.28        -       16.88    .91
Jine     1989       0.24          -         14.52        -        17.12    .92
1990
Septenbr 1989       0.24          -         14.76        -        17.36    .93
Deaeiber  1989       0.21         -         14.97         -       17.57    .94
Mardi    1990        0.21         -          15.18        -       17.78    .96
Juie     1990       0.21          -         15.39        -        17.99    .97
1991
September 1990       0.17         -         15.56        -        18.16    .97
December 1990       0.16          -         15.72        -        18.32    .98
Mardi    1991        0.16         -          15.88        -       18.48    .99
June     1991       0.05          -         15.93        -        18.53    .99
1992
Septeaer 1991        0.07         -         16.00        -        18.60   1.00
Asmuiptics:
Lcmn Sigisatre:    Marci, 1984
lcan Effectiveness: Jume 1984
Loan Closiig Date: Septemkber 31, 1991
Disbursment lTag Expnditure: 9 nxths
ANNAL FSIj4AJED DISBt5ia
IhE Fiscal Year
U1$ million
PY  84 -        n85  FY 86   FY 87   PY 88  FY 89  PY 90  FY 91   FY 92
Arnial             0.7      1.4    5.1      3.1      3.1    1.1    0.9    0.5       0.1
Cualative          0.7      2.1    7.2    10.3    13.4   14.5   15.4   15.9    16.0



JAviAICA
KI1BSS     URBAN TdANSPORT PROJECM
Key Indicators for Monitoring Project Execution
Serester                         1               2               1                 2                 1                2           1          2          1         2           1          2            1         2
Year                                    1984                           1985                                1986                       1987                   1988                  1989                   1990
Span Town Rd. 'A"                                             Design          Complete E.B.   Cumrplete W.B.
Compiete       lanse  except.    lnes plus all
Paving           Paving
Span Twie Rd. "B"           Complete         Capolete         Complete
Land Aoquis.   W.B. lanes        E.B.lanps
except.Pav.      plus all
Paving
Span Town Rd. 'C"           Cxplete          Complete         Ccmplete        Complete         Complete           Ccrplete
Darling St.     Backford St.      Darling        Span Town Rd.   Heywod St.          Beckford
(a)             (a)               (b)                                                St. (b)
Palfwxay Tree Car.          Complete         Crrplete         Complete        Corplete
Land Acquis.      20X               601            10
Halfwy Tree Rd.                              Design                           Intersection     Roadway
Complete         Complete
Halfwxiy Tree/Oxford                         Design           Construction
Complete         Complete
H1alfway Tree/Crossroad3                     Design           Construction
Complete         Corplete
Halfra0 Tree/Slipe          Design                            Construction
Com,lete                          Complete
lHpe Road                                    Design           Utilities       Utilites         Reconstrution      Reounst.        Paving &
Complete            407            100%           E.B. lane         W.B. lan.       Intersec.
Intersection Iaprvt.                                                                                                             3 compl.              7 carpl.             11  soi.             15 cmipl.
Traffic Signal                                                                Design Coupl.    Civil WoIxs        Civ. &1ks.      Sig. Inst.
757 Complete      100y Sig.
50%
Road Maintenance (mi.)      Reorg./Dept.                                       6 nii.           10 mi.            32 mi.          60 mi.               90 nld.              115 mi.               128 mi.
NOEE: E.B. = East Bound
W.B. = West Boaind
_ Is



-37-
Ta ble 8
Page 1
JAMAICA
KISSTON IRBAN EANSPCRT PROJECT
Key Indicators for Monitoring Project Effectiveness
(in constant J$)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988/90
A. Public Tranporta/
Travel time (1984 = 100) %         100       95       90       80      70
Peak load factors
(low demand routes)              1.20     1.10    1.05      1.00    1.00
Peak load factors
(high demand routes)             1.20     1.15     1.10     1.05    1.05
Regularity of service             +2C0%    +15%    +l1r/%    + 5%    + 5%
Operating cost/passenger (J$)     -D.25   -D.24   -D.23   m0.22  -0.21
B. Traffic Improvements
Spanish Town Road A
Volume/capacity ratio (peak hour)   1.15    1.15     0.50     0.55    0.60
Traffic speed (peak hour) uph      10       10       26       26      25
Traffic volume (peak hour) veh/hr  600  ~600         720      770    820
Foreign exchange cost savings per
vehicle in J cents/mile
(peak hour)                       -        -       20.10   20.50   20.80
Spanish Town Road B
Volume/capacity ratio (peak hour)   1.05    0.31     0.33     0.35    0.37
Traffic speed (peak hour) mph      13       26       26       26      26
Traffic volume (peak hcur) weh/hr  320      320      340      360    380
Foreign exchadge cost savings per
vehicle in J cents/mile
(peak haur)                      -       18.15    21.50    21.15   25.80
Spanish Town Road C
(i) Darling Street
Volume/capacity ratio (peak hour)   -        -        -       0.39    0.42
Traffic speed (peak hour) mph       -        -        -       26      26
Traffic volume (peak hoar) weh/hr   -        -        -       290    320
Foreign exchange cost savings
per vehicle in J cents/mile
(peak hcur)                       -        -        -       58.35   62.0
a/ SOIRCE: Kingston Metropolitan Region Transport Project Draft Final Report,
ArexM  - (A route cost nmdel) MPUT December 1982



-38-
(continred)                                                                                    ANNEX
YT ble 8
Page 2
1984     1985     1986     1987    1988/90
(ii) Heywood Street
Volun/Capaciy Ratio (peak hour)          -       -        -       0.22    0.24
Traffic Speed (peak hcur) mph            -       -        -       27      27
Traffic Volures (pea hur) veh/hr          -      -        -       250     270
Foreign Exdiange Ccst Savings per
vehicle in J cents/mile (peac haor)    -       -        -       40.65   42.25
(iii) Beckford Street
Voluse/Capacity Ratio (peak haor)        -        -       -       0.28    0.30
Traffic Speed (peak hour) lph            -       -        -       27      27
Traffic Voluues (pea hour) veh/hr         -      -        -       280    285
Foreign Exchange Cost Savings per
vehicle in J cents/mile (peak haor)    -       -        -       40.65   42.25
Half Way Tree Corridor (part B only)
Volbis,Capacity Ratio (pee hlr)          1.10     1.16    0.84    0.89    0.97
Traffic Speed (pea hcur) mph            12       10      21       20      17
Traffic Volume (peak haor) vehtnr        1,380    1,460   1,600    1,630   1,730
Foreign Exchange Cost Saving per
vehicle or J cents/mile (peak haor)    -       -       14.10    14.80   15.50
Half Way Tree Corridor (part D mnly)
Average waitirg tire/vehicle (secs)      43.5    25.0   11.0       11.0   11.0
Hope Road
Volune/Capacity Ratio (peak hair)       0.98     0.98   0.98      0.63    0.67
Traffic Speed (peak hoir) mph            16      16      16       25      24
Traffic Volune (peak hoar) veh/hr        710      710    710      755    800
Foreign Exchange Ccst savings per
vehicle or J cents/mile (peak har)             -        -       23.00   25.75
Intersector Inprovemnents
Average waiting tine (pe*c hair) X       100      70     71       72      73
Approach speed (peak hour) x             100      180    165       150    135
Traffic Signals
Reduction in delay of pre-tinmed
signals (secs/veh)                     -       2       3        5       5
Reduction in delay at fixedI
time signals (secs/veh)                -       2       3        5       6
Road Maintenance
Residential Access Roads (miles)         10      15       20       20      20
Principal Traffic Roads (miles)          2       4        6        8       8
Drainage Inprovenents (runber)           5       6        8        8       8
Road Roughness  100" - 160`7              30     50       20       -       -
80" - 100"%             -       -        75       25      -
60"- 80"%               -       -        -        50      50
25"-  30"%              12      22       22       22      2



JAMAICA
KINGSTCN URBAN TIAME1RT PROJECT
Key Indicators for Measuring Financial and Organizational Peformance
Calendar Years                                   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9
Institutional
Nunber of professional                                    9        1       0        0          0      0        0        0
staff recraiteda/ in TA
Number of employees in TA                        -      100       90      80       80         80    80        80       80
Man mnths of tedhircal assistance
received                                               254     1130      79       33          0      0        0        0
Financial
Project expenditures (J$ million,
cumulative)                                   1.8      20.3    50.2    71 .8    82.5        89.7  95.7    98.0        -
Bank disbarsements (US$ million,
cunulative)                                     -      0.9      4.2      8.5    12.4        14.0  15.0    15.7    16.0
Cofinancing disbA.mements (US$ million anul.)  0.0        0.3      1.8      2.6      -          -      -        -        -
TA expenditures (exluding bases)
(J$ million-yearly)                             -      0.5      1.1      1.2      1.3        1.4   1.4       1.5      1.5
Franchise fees collected (J$ million yearly)      -       0.7      2.9      2.9     2.9        3.0   3.0       3.0      3.1
JOS liabilities satisfied                      35.0      50.0    65.0    75.0    90.0        1C00.0    -        -        -
a/ Includes professional staff recruited during project preparstion



JAMAICA
KltCS     UtBAN TRANSPCRT PROlECT
Institutional Indicators
Schedule of Key Elvents
Preparation    n I-          Starr-up-.                   F                       First Year Operathu,.                                                 Second Year Operations      -
March 1984                             May 1984                       July 1984                        October 1984                  Janiary 1985
Public Transport
JTA
(a) Cunplete organizational plan     (a) Place bus stops                  (a) Legal JTA extablisment         (a) Operate accounts            (a) Operate accounts         (a) Operate accontts
(b) Recruit execitive director       (b) Start franchises                 (b) Operate full accounts          (b) Recelve TA                  (b) Recetve TA               (b) Receive TA
(c) De facto establishient of JTA    (c) Start franchise inspection       (c) Receive T.A.                   (c) Complete financtal planming  (c) Prepare bludget for     (c) Full MIE program
""'stem                         FY'85
(d) Complete preliainary design of   (d) Operate Interim accounts         (d) Desgin long-term training      (d) Start Wm. program            (d) Pull M'   program      (d) Flrachise and
monitoring and evaluation (M%E)                                           program                                                                                         bus inspection
program
(e) Complete TOR's for technical     (e) Obtain & evaluate T.A.           (e) Finalize MIE program           (e) Full franchise inspection    (e) Franchise and bus       (e) Research program
assistance                           proposals                                                                                               inspection
(f) Finalize accounting procedures                                        (f) Design his tnspection program  (f) Start his inpection program                              (f) Full training program
(g) Design initial training program                                                                          (g) Design research program      (g) Start research program  (g) Report to Bark
(h) Start training program      (h) Full training program       (through MOC(W)
KSAC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(a) Fund routine road saintenanice   (a) Submit organizational plan to  (a) Design M6E System           (a) Start new salary        (a) Full operation of
account by 4/1/84                   World Bank                                                          policies                    rutine maintenance
programs
(b) Review organizational plan and  (h) Finalize & annunfce organiza-  (b) Start training               (b) Hire contracts          (b) Begin periodic
detaited requirements               tional plan                                                         engineers                   vaintenance program
(c) Disouss plan with ewloyees      (c) Hire consultants to set up    (c) Start routine msintenance
program
(d) Set up accounts and procedures (d) Retire excess enployees
(e) Operate accounts              (e) Ooiiplete design of depot
and submit to Baik
(f) Devise training plan
(g) Hire acccuRtant
(h) Hire road maintenance engineers
(1) Choose site for a new depot
(j) Ltaise with MDC (W) on new
equipment
H1
a



-41-
ANNEX 2
JAMAICA
KINGSTON URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Kingston Metropolitan Region Urban Transport Project, Final Report,
Dorsch-Consult, May 1981
2.    Kingston Metropolitan Region, Transport Project, Draft Final Report,
MPUT, December 1982
3.    KMR Urban Transport Project, Road Maintenance, T.P. O'Sullivan &
Partners, April 1983
4.    KMR Urban Transport Project, Traffic Signal System, Donald W.
Proctor, January 1983
5.    KMR Urban Transport Project, Economic Evaluation, Marlies Vogel,
DIWI-Consult, May 1983
6.    KMR Urban Transport Project, Management and Institutional Analysis,
John C. Williams, February 1983
7.    A Study of the Model Distribution of Nonurban Traffic in Jamaica,
DELCANDA, January 1982
9.    A National Physical Plan for Jamaica, MFP, October 1971
10.    Kingston Metropolitan Regional Plan, MFP, November 1978
11.    West Kingston Development Project, UDC, August 1982
12.    Jamaica:  Kingston Urban Transport Project, Supplementary Volume,
IBRD, December 1983:
ANNEX 1:   Investment Strategy and User Charges in the Transport Sector
ANNEX 2:   Institutions Responsible for Urban management
A. National Institutions
B. Local Institutions: the Kingston St. Andrew Corporation
ANNEX 3:   Institution Responsible for Management of the Urban Transport
Sector
ANNEX 4:   Road Maintenance Component
ANNEX 5:   Technical Assistance and Training
ANNEX 6:   Economic Evaluation






I BR D 17505
__                                 ~~~~JAMAICA                                                                                                                                                    odAe2     
KINGSTON  URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                          3             #~o-c
70  fld
M.J., --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  ~~~~~~-                                                                       -     zSnr,---
POITMO" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Ot4&foote W4>
E-t'g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~No
_P,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p ... d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ):R,                                          O
11,9 t  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g~~~~~pd.d~                                                                                                          3                                            9$      '5
Pl~~~~~~~~~~~~~p ... d ~ ~ ~     ~            ~           ~           >'-                              ~e o  s,encnnosne
,~~~~~~~p-d I kI,d ~~~        ~~                           ~~~                                     ~K                        .0       1      O             P         R        !if K*
3%  Plo 'oay  seeIC,o,n Rosin condo   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K                                                      ,SNI
fT i lssRodsr  n                                                                                                                             >                                        Yone            >-
[lotpss, Rpd .po. es-,Pt,nono                                                                                                                                                                               7
Eubi-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                                                                                                                                             ->7>                                                       ---
o-,I n...n  no,oS' Io otnoj                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7
____     oz, -50 i
Rn                                                                                     >                                                                                                                                                   5oonln>
--Pespeeso- Y                                                                                                                                                                                          --o  C                                                  0KNNA    e
P- - hRss bessotPar                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tt .ot5ty 
..   Anals..  "t                            I,RL50ES  -dhon,A,uds0,gsssssoaonsoo  oio oa                                                                                                                                              ,             5  t           uiesl
Swoops                                                                                                tresnuosos eo'Re.ssooSoR'Soe ese onraso Sot s'Ssn eOpoABtnf 457 CseAteeeaoaseol  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



