Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3730-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF $16 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR AN
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
February 6, 1984
rThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Official Rate (1979 - Nov. 1983)        Official Parallel Rate (Jan. 1983 -
Nov. 1983)
US$1.0  =  J$ 1.78                      US$1.0  =  J$ 2.4- 2.9
J$ 1.0  =  US$0.56                      J$ 1.0  =  US$0.34 - 0.42
Official Rate (November 24, 1983)
US$1.0  =  J$3.00 - 3.30
J$ 1.0  =  US$0.29 - 0.32
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
British/US Units                        Metric Equivalent
I inch (in)                  =          2.54 centimeters (cm)
1 foot (ft)                  =          0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)                  =          1.609 kilometers (km)
I square mile (mi2)                     2.589 square kilometers (km2)
1 acre                       =          0.4047 hectares (ha)
1 mile per hour              =          1.6093 km per hour
I imperial gallon (gal.)                4.454 liters (1)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOJ       Bank of Jamaica
DMP       Directorate of Major Projects (MOC (W))
DTS       Directorate of Technical Services (MOC (W))
JCF       Jamaica Constabulary Force
JOS       Jamaica Omnibus Services
RMR       Kingston Metropolitan Region
KSAC      Kingston and St. Andrew Corporation
MFP       Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOC (W)  Ministry of Construction (Works)
MPUT      Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport
NWC       National Water Commission
PIU       Project Implementation Unit (MOC (W))
TA        Jamaica Transport Au-thority (MPUT)
TCPA      Town and Country Planning Authority (MFP)
TES       Traffic Engineering Section (MOC (W))
UDC       Urban Development Corporation
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
VoC       Vehicle Operating Cost
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






JAMAICA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Government of Jamaica
Amount:                       US$16.0 million equivalent (including a capitalized
front-end fee).
Terms:                        17 years, including 4 years grace; standard variable
interest rate.
Project Description:          The principal objective of the project is to promote
the development of an adequate and efficient urban
transport system in the Kingston Metropolitan Region
(KMR), following the divestment of the publicly-owned
Jamaica Omnibus Company to the private sector. The
project is designed to minimize the annual foreign
exchange requirements for the operation of vehicles in
the KMR and to rationalize and reduce in real terms
Government expenditures in the urban transport
sector. The project comprises the following major
components: (i) traffic management measures,
including steps for improving traffic flow along the
three most heavily travelled public transport
corridors in the KMR, intersection improvements, and
traffic signals; (ii) support for the 71-year road
maintenance program in the KMR; and (iii) technical
assistance and training to assist in the execution of
the project and to improve management of the KMR urban
transport system.
Project risks include the unwillingness or inability
of the private sector to respond to the Government's
policy initiative, lack of adherence to prescribed
schedules by private operators, and development of a
cumbersome bureaucracy to administer the privatized
system. The preparatory studies have examined these
risks and taken them into account in the design of the
franchising process and of the technical assistance.



Project Costs:                            Foreign    Local       Total
Traffic Management                          6.2        4.6       10.8
Road Maintenance                            5.1        2.7        7.8
Technical Assistance                        3.5        0.6        4.1
Base Cost                             14.8        7.9       22.7
Physical Contingencies                       1.1       0.6        1.7
Price Contingencies                         2.6        2.7        5.3
Total Project Costs a/                     18.5       11.2       29.7
Front-end Fee                               0.1         -         0.1
Total Financing Required                   18.6       11.2       29.8
Project Financing:
IBRD                                       16.0         -        16.0
Suppliers' Credits                          2.6         -         2.6
GOJ                                          -        11.2       11.2
TOTAL                                   18.6       11.2       29.8
Estimated Disbursements                      Bank Fiscal Years
(US$ million)
FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91   FY92
Annual           0.7      1.4      5.1     3.1      3.1      1.1     0.9      0.5    0.1
Cumulative       0.7      2.1     7.2    10.3    13.4    14.5    15.4    15.9   16.0
Estimated Rate of return:   67%
St:aff Appraisal Report: No. 4727-JM
Map No.: IBRD 17505
a! Identifiable local taxes and duties amount to US$5.9 million or 20% of total
project costs.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR AN
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Jamaica for the equivalent of US$16.0 million, including a
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance an urban transport project. The
loan would have a term of 17 years, repayable on a fixed amortization
schedule, including 4 years' grace, with interest at the standard variable
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report entitled "Jamaica:  Recent Developments and
Economic Prospects" was distributed to the Executive Directors on
January 17, 1984. Annex I contains the basic country data.
A.  The Jamaican Economy to 1980
3.        The economy of Jamaica was affected by severe disturbances during
the 1970s. The first years of the decade repeated the brisk growth perfor-
mance of the 1960s, but the trend was abruptly reversed as a result of
external shocks and the impact of domestic policies. As a result, in 1980
total GDP stood 18% below the 1973 peak, and every year between had seen
negative real growth in per capita income. Manufacturing declined by 31%,
and construction by 58%. The share of investment expenditures declined
from 22% of GDP in 1974-75 to 12-15% of GDP in 1977-80, while consumption
expenditures increased proportionately, reflecting the private sector's
declining confidence and a rapid expansion of Government current
expenditures.
4.        As a result of Government's expansionary policies for the public
sector, fiscal performance was weak over the period. The Central Govern-
ment current account, which had registered a surplus of 6% of GDP in
1974/75, showed a deficit of 4% of GDP in 1979/80, a downward trend which
was reflected in increased overall deficits. Reflecting this, and declin-
ing production for export, particularly in bauxite/alumina manufacturing,
sugar and bananas, the balance of payments was under continuous pressure.
The current account deficit on the balance of payments reached a high of
11% of GDP in 1976, but declined after the devaluations of 1978 and 1979.
Lack of confidence had by this time caused considerable capital flight, so
the deficits resulted in increasing levels of public debt, which rose from
17% of GDP in 1973 to 46% of GDP in 1980, and in declining net interna-
tional reserves, which fell from US$37 million in 1973 to US$-518 million
in 1980, with gross reserves down to four weeks' imports.



- 2 -
B. Development Strategy
5.        The Government which came to power in October 1980 was therefore
faced with considerable economic problems, as noted above, but was committ-
ed to a reform of past economic policies, and to the institution of changes
designed to reverse the economic decline of the 1970s. It saw the private
sector as the main engine cf economic growth, and consequently sought a
reduction in the role of the public sector, through deregulation and
divestment of government-owned assets, such as hotels and sugar factories.
The development of exports, particularly outside CARICOM, was considered
the main impetus for economic recovery. The Government also sought to
improve the overall investment climate, in particular so as to attract
foreign private investment in sectors with potential for exports.
6.        The new Government quickly established relations with the IMF and
ir March 1981 reached agreement on a three-year Extended Facility
Arrangement and Compensatory Financing Facility drawing, which would
together provide SDR 536 million over the three-year period. The
Government also requested a structural adjustment loan from the World Bank,
and a first such loan, for US$76.2 million, was approved in March 1982.
The SAL included conditions in balance of payments management, industry,
agriculture, and savings and investment, both public and private. A second
SAL was approved in June 1983, covering the same policy areas, but with the
ac.dition of action programs in the field of public administration.
7.        One of the binding constraints on the economy during the 1970s--
and, of course, for the incoming Government--had been the balance of pay-
ments, and the shortage of foreign exchange. The Government had various
policies to address this problem, and indeed, the program in this area is
still evolving. One aspect was to attract a high level of official assist-
arLce from bilateral and multilateral sources during the first few years of
the economic recovery program, to finance an increased volume of imports,
particularly of raw materials, spare parts and capital goods, in order to
increase levels of output, and provide the means to expand exports.
Secondly, the Government was committed to a gradual replacement of the
constrictive administrative controls over the level of imports and the
allocation of foreign exchange by a system of allocation controlled
primarily by market forces.
8.        An immediate devaluation of the Jamaican dollar, which is tied to
thie US dollar, was ruled out as a policy option by the new Government, both
because it believed that Jamaican exports had become competitive after the
1978/79 devaluations, and also because it feared that further devaluation
would merely fuel the fires of inflation through wage demands. Rather, the
need for a devaluation would be avoided through an attack on inflation and
restraint on wages, with the public sector acting as an "example" to
others.
9.        The first step in introducing a more market-oriented system was
to decriminalize the informal foreign exchange market, and to issue import
licenses to be funded through purchases on this market (so-called
"nIo-funds" licenses) on a liberal basis. The second step took place early



in 1983.  It consisted of the full legalization of the parallel market,
formalization of its operations through institutionalization within the
commercial banking system, and a si-mplification of the import licensing
arrangements. This process was taken a stage further in November 1983.
The two-tier system was abandoned in favor of a unified exchange rate
system, with some built-in flexibility. The initial rate was set at J$3.15
= US$1.00, which represents a 77% devaluation of the official rate. At the
same time, the import licensing system has been dismantled, and the only
imports subject to continued administrative control are items on the
restricted list, and certain low priority consumer goods. These remaining
controls will be phased out graduallys
10.       The manufacturing sector--together with agriculture and
tourism--was viewed as having major potential for growth, and in particular
for an immediate expansion of exports. It suffered from three major pro-
blems: (i) an orientation towards the domestic market and against exports,
because of the structure of incentives, (ii) low capacity utilization, as a
result of a shortage of foreign exchange; and (iii) outmoded,
inappropriate. and badly run-down working capital equipment, because of a
lack of investment during the 1970s, and the unavailability of foreign
exchange for spare parts. To reorient the sector, the Government is
attempting to redress the balance of incentives towards export markets, by
gradually eliminating the main means of protection, the quantitative
restrictions, by the gradual changes in the exchange rate, and by the
expansion and liberalization of the Export Development Fund, which provides
exporters with foreign exchange to acquire needed imports. Private
investment, particularly from overseas, is being-actively encouraged,
through the general improvement in the investment climate, and through an
agressive investment promotion agency.
11.       The agricultural sector had been the one area of growth amongst
the productive sectors during the 1970s. However, this had primarily been
through an expansion of production for the domestic market, and export
agriculture had steadily declined.  Government was committed to a revival
of export agriculture. Several programs were designed to achieve this
goal, including: (i) rehabilitation programs for sugar and bananas, and
the encouragement of private sector involvement in these crops; (ii) the
introduction of competition into the external marketing of other crops,
through a termination of the nonopsony powers of the external marketing
organizations (EMOs), and a rationalization of the activities of the EMOs;
and (iii) the encouragement of private investment, which has to date
included major investments in coffee, bananas, floriculture, and winter
vegetables.
12.       Tourism was seen as the other sector capable of an immediate
expansion of export earnings, because occupancy levels had fallen to very
low levels, and capacity underutilization was widespread. An intensive
promotion campaign was mounted, and Jamaica succeeded in counteracting the
negative image of lawlessness and antagonism to foreigners that had been
created in the seventies and t-hat had seriously damaged the tourist trade.
Several Government-owned and operated hotels were leased to the private
sector, under terms where initial rents could be used for refurbishing. In



addition, the decriminalization and subsequent formalization of the
parallel market permitted an effective reduction in the price of tourism in
Jamaica, increasing its price competitiveness. The collective results of
this effort has been a rapid increase in tourist arrivals (25-30% a year)
at a time when tourism in the Caribbean has been falling by 7-10% a year.
13.        Less emphasis was placed on the role of the bauxite/alumina
sector as a source of growth, although the continued decline that this
sector has suffered recently was not expected or provided for in the
Government's scenario. Rather, it had been expected to continue at a
similar or slightly higher level of output. In recent months, the
Government has been very active in attempting to negotiate bauxite/alumina
barter deals, in order to aLttempt to maintain the level of output, or
prevent it from falling even farther, and some success has been achieved.
14.        Finally, the Government has been trying to overcome another major
constraint to growth--the shortage of skilled and managerial manpower.
There was a major exodus of such persons during the 1970s, and attempts
have been made to attract them back to Jamaica, in addition to ongoing
ei.forts to upgrade skill levels of the work force, and in particular those
oi- new entrants to the work force. Some success has been achieved in
al:tracting people back, but the shortage remains an important constraint to
development.
C. Recent Economic Performance
115.       In contrast to the sharp decline of the 1973-80 period, the
Jamaican economy grew in 1981 by 3.3%. Construction and non-government
services were the leading growth sectors, but most productive sectors
responded positively to the improvement in the business climate and the
greater availability of foreign exchange. Unemployment and inflation both
decreased, the former modestly, but the latter dramatically, falling from
28% in 1980 to only 4.7% in 1981. The fiscal situation also improved, in
particular as a result of improved tax collection, and the current and
overall deficits improved by about 4% of GDP with the financing of these
def:Lcits coming largely from external official sources. However, the
current account deficit on the balance of payments increased sharply to
12.8% of GDP in 1981, although this had been largely anticipated. It had
been expected that this higher deficit would be covered by increased flows
of official assistance. This occurred for the fiscal year 1981/82, where a
balance of payments surplus of US$43 million was achieved, but a large
proportion of the increased flows came in the last quarter, and on a
calendar year basis, there was a further decline in reserves by US$81
minllion.
16.        In 1982, the Jamaican economy was severely affected by the
international recession. In particular, output of bauxite/alumina declined
by 26%, equivalent to 2.7% of GDP; consequently, overall GDP growth was
only 0.2%. The severity of the decline in bauxite/alumina in 1982 reflects



- 5 -
the decision by the companies to maintain output in 1981, in the hope of a
recovery in 1982, which resulted in large stocks, and also the presence in
Jamaica of those aluminum companies most affected by the recession. If the
bauxite/alumina sector is excluded, real growth was 3.4%, with particularly
strong performance again in construction, non-government services, and
manufacturing. However, there was also a decline in agriculture,
reflecting stagnation in sugar production and slower than expected recovery
of bananas, and the depressive effect on output of other crops of the
greater availability of foreign exchange to finance food imports.
Preliminary figures indicate that economic growth of about 1.5% was
achieved in 1983, because of a recovery in the agricultural sector, and
continued expansion in the services sector.
17.       The decline in bauxite/alumina also affected the public
finances in FY82/83. The loss of revenue from the bauxite production levy
amounted to J$109 million (1.9% of GDP). In addition, expected Bank of
Jamaica profits (0.7% of GDP) failed to materialize. Despite a further 23%
increase in tax revenue, the Central Government current deficit worsened
from 2.6% of GDP to 4.0% of GDP and consequently the overall deficit
reached 15.2% of GDP with two-thirds of the financing required coming from
external sources. A similar pattern is emerging for FY83/84, although the
current account deficit is expected to worsen to over 6% of GDP with the
overall deficit held to a similar level to FY82/83 through compressed
capital expenditure.
18.       With the decline in bauxite/alumina, total merchandise exports
are estimated to have declined by 23% in nominal terms and merchandise
imports by 6% in 1982. Non-bauxite exports rose by about 13%, and with
tourism earnings rising by a further 15%, and transfers by 28%, the current
account on the balance of payments improved to an estimated 11.9% of GDP.
On a calendar year basis, this resulted in an overall surplus of US$88.2
million, but for FY1982/83, the net international reserves position
declined by close to US$150 million, causing difficulties with the net
foreign assets target of the EFF. Although a waiver in this respect was
granted by the IMF, the balance of payments situation did not improve
sufficiently in 1983 to permit the revised EFF program targets to be met.
Exports and imports were at similar levels to 1982, but with rising
interest payments and with private capital outflows, the balance of
payments recorded a large overall deficit in 1983. Consequently, the EFF
program was abandoned, and is to be replaced by a new Stand-By arrangement
with the IMF which is expected to be in place on April 1, 1984. The high
level of official capital inflow of the last three years has increased
substantially the level of public debt and debt servicing, which rose to
the equivalent of about 26% of exports of goods and services in 1983.
D. Economic Prospects
19,       The economic recovery program has begun to reverse the negative
trends of the economy, and this process is expected to continue. GDP
growth is projected to average 3% over the next few years, on the as-
sumption that there is a recovery in the economies of the OECD countries.
This is a critical assumption, particularly with respect to bauxite/



-6-
alumina, tourism and manufactured exports. Even with this rate of growth,
G3DP per capita in 1986 would still be 12% below the 1972 peak.  Moreover,
most of the recovery would be concentrated on raising domestically financed
investment levels rather than consumption, which is projected to grow very
modestly, with national savings rising from 8.4% of GDP in 1982 to about
20% of GDP towards the end of the decade, particularly through expected
improvements in public savings.
20,       As a consequence of the export-oriented strategy adopted by the
Government, with the recovery in the OECD countries, exports of goods and
services are projected to grow by about 7% a year, largely reflecting
recovery from present depressed levels. Bauxite/alumina exports would re-
cover their 1981 level by 1988, and sugar and banana exports are projected
to increase as a result of rehabilitation programs to the point where they
can satisfy, from domestic production, the protected EEC and US markets.
With imports projected to grow less rapidly, the current account of the
balance of payments is expected to improve gradually from the present level
of -11.9% of GDP, to a level of about 4.5% of GDP towards the end of the
1980s.
21.       Net external capital flows would therefore gradually fall over
the period, but would need to average about US$200 million a year. With
high levels of amortization payments, this would mean that gross inflows
would have to average over US$400 million per annum; private flows are
expected to increase gradually, and to supply about one quarter of the
required inflow over the period. Debt service levels will remain high, and
are projected to be at a 'Level of about 15% of exports of goods and
services throughout the 1980s. This is considered manageable; provided
that Jamaica continues to pursue successfully its present stabilization and
economic recovery program,, it should be considered creditworthy for limited
external borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
22.       The Bank has made 34 loans in Jamaica totalling US$583.4 million
after cancellations. Of this amount, US$162.9 million (28%) has been for
infrastructure investments in transportation, electric power, water supply
and sewerage; US$271.1 mi:llion (46%) for program-type lending, related
technical assistance, and for a revolving fund for financing of inputs for
export industries; and the remainder has been for agriculture and
agroindustry (7%), education (7%), sites and services (2%), forestry (2%),
population and nutrition (2%), small-scale enterprises (2%), and petroleum
exploration (2%). As of September 30, 1983, Jamaica's debt to the Bank
stood at $527 million, or 21.1% of external debt outstanding and disbursed;
debt service to the Bank during FY83 amounted to US$36.4 million, or 10% of
total debt service. These shares are not expected to change substantially
in the next five years. The undisbursed amount of Bank loans as of
September 30, 1983 amounted to US$161.5 milllion. There have been four
IFC investments in Jamaica, the most recent being a loan in 1981 to a flour
mill company.
23.       Bank lending in Jamaica has covered a wide range of sectors and
development problems. Initially, the Bank lending program emphasized



-7 -
infrastructure investment. Although financing for this purpose continued,
the emphasis of the lending program in the early and middle 1970s moved to
the social sectors, with projects in education, population and nutrition,
housing and employment for the urban poor and rural development. In
response to the changing economic situation, a further shift in Bank
lending took place in the late '70s which gave priority to financing to
help relieve the country's pressinig balance of payments problems and
improve Jamaica's export performance. Thus, in FY78 the Bank lending
program contained a $30 million program loan and an $18 million loan for
the rehabilitation of factories for Jamaica's export oriented sugar
industry. The Bank's second $31.5 million program loan in FY79 was also
directed at providing needed balance of payments support, with most of the
proceeds allocated to the financing of the import needs of export
industries throughl the establishment of a revolving Export Development
Fund; additional loans to augment its resources were made in FY81 ($37
million) and FY83 ($30.5 million). Bank lending to Jamaica has recognized
that resolution of the country's balance of payments difficulties will
require making adjustments to the economy over a period of time. The
Government embarked on a structural adjustment program in 1981; the Bank
has supported this program with two structural adjustment loans in FY82
($76.2 million) and FY83 ($60.2 million). The technical assistance
requirements of the structural adjustment program were met through a $6.1
million technical assistance loan made in FY82. Additional support for the
Government's export program was provided by a $13.5 million loan in FY82
for the expansion of a free zone project in Kingston.
24.       Although basic physical infrastructure in Jamaica is to a large
extent in place, much of that infrastructure is badly in need of mainte-
nance and rehabilitation. In response, the Bank provided loans for highway
maintenance and rehabilitation in FY79 ($16 million) and FY83 ($15
million), as well as a $30.5 mil:Lion loan for a similar purpose for the
electric power system in FY82.
25.       Future Bank lending is likely to be directed mainly at the
following areas: a) support for the structural adjustment program; b)
projects in support of export development; and c) projects aimed at
conserving existing investment. In later years of the program, when the
country is better able to deal with its short and medium term balance of
payments situation, the Bank lending strategy contemplates greater emphasis
on more socially oriented projects.
26.       Loans currently in preparation include a loan to strengthen the
Agricultural Credit Bank and to provide longer-term credit and technical
assistance in the export agricultural sector as well as a loan to support
measures to improve public administration. If the Government's structural
adjustment program continues to be executed as projected with the expected
results, further structural adjustment loans may also be considered.
27.       Disbursements of Bank loans in Jamaica have been timely on the
average in recent years; this largely reflects the high proportion of
quickly disbursing program and structural adjustment lending. Many project
loans, however, have encountered delays in execution, reflecting primarily
the country's difficult economic circumstances, resulting in fiscal and
foreign exchange constraints, and institutional weaknesses, exacerbated by
an exodus of skilled and managerial personnel. The single most serious



- 8 -
obstacle to timely project execution remains the lack of skilled personnel
in the public sector; current Bank lending attempts to address this problem
in part through the provision of substantial levels of technical assistance
and an even greater focus on institution-building than in the past.
III. THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
28.       After almost a decade of sustained decline, the Jamaican economy
is now beginning to experience a certain amount of growth due to the
introduction of an economic recovery program designed to correct structural
weaknesses in the economy and to attain a path of economic growth that
would be sustainable without recourse to special balance of payments
assistance.   Several reforms in the operation and management of the urban
transport sector have been formulated explicitly by Government to be
corgruent with the external objectives of this program (especially energy
savings and the reduction of oil imports) and to be consistent with
internal fiscal measures designed to reduce budget expenditures.
29.       Approximately 90% of Jamaica's total energy consumption is
dependent on petroleum, all of which is imported. By 1982, fuel imports
had. cleclined from a peak of US$470 million in 1980 to a total of US$453
million owing to reduced production in the bauxite/aluminum industry.
Petroleum importation for the domestic sector, however, increased by 8.4%
in value and by 3.8% in voluime over 1981 levels.  The transportation sector
(road and rail) undoubtedly contributed significantly to this increase as
its share of total petroleum consumption increased from 12% in 1980 to over
14%i in 1982. The urban transport sector accounts for around 9% of total
petroleum consumption and around 60% of retail gasoline sales are
concentrated in the Kingston Metropolitan Region (KMR).
30.       In the area of energy conservation, the Government is pursuing a
policy of realistic pricing. In January 1980, all subsidies on petroleum
products were eliminated and Government policy is to fully reflect
production costs in the final selling price of petroleum products. Taxes
are levied on gasoline and automotive diesel oil and serve as a source of
revenue and for conservation purposes. The tax components of gasoline and
diesel oil prices are 40% and 12% respectively.
31.       Given that the balaince of payments is, and is likely to remain,
the binding constraint to Jamaica's economic growth for some years to come,
the connection between energy policies and economic performance is
inescapable. Analysis of the performance of the urban transportation
sector in Jamaica indicates that the relief of congestion in urban areas
through improved traffic conitrol would have the highest cost/effectiveness
ratio of all energy savings measures because of fuel savings which would be
achieved through the reduction of vehicle idling time and stopping time
(estimated to be responsible for an average consumption per vehicle of
1.63 gallons of fuel per hour of operation in the K<MR). Buses and
commercial vehicles are more seriously affected by congestion than
automobiles because of their lesser flexibility in terms of hours of



- 9 -
operation and route choice. The potential fuel savings from improved
traffic control are therefore greater per vehicle/hour for buses and
commercial vehicles. In noncongested urban areas, it has been estimated
that the highest cost-effectiveness ratio of all foreign exchange savings
measures would be achieved by improved road surface conditions derived from
improved routine and periodic maintenance operations. These energy
conservation and foreign exchange savings measures form the main thrust of
the Government's urban transport investment program which the proposed
project is designed to strengthen and support.
32.       A cornerstone of the Government's economic recovery program is
the limitation of the role of the state in commercial activities. The
private sector would be responsible for productive and commercial
activities while the state would provide the infrastructure and policy
environment to allow market mechanisms to function effectively. As a
result, a program to divest government assets began in January 1981. By
December 1981, the operational and financial performance of the state-owned
bus company which operates in Kingston, Jamaica Omnibus Services (JOS), had
deteriorated to such an extent that Government decided to include JOS in
the program and turn over its operation to the private sector. From a
positive net worth of over J$ 4.0 million in 1978, the equity of JOS is
estimated to have been in a deficit position of over J$ 40.0 million
by the end of 1982. In the same year, JOS' cash operating loss was J$13.0
million before taking into account the fare subsidy of J$6.0 million
provided by Government. The Government has taken several actions in 1982
and 1983 which led to the phasing out of JOS provision of public transport
services on December 31, 1983, and to the introduction of a private system
operating on a route franchise basis on January 2, 1984. These measures
are consistent with the internal fiscal measures of the Government's
economic recovery program which are designed to reduce budget
expenditures. They form the public transport framework which the proposed
project is designed to strengthen and support.
The Kingston Metropolitan Region
33.       Between 1970 and 1980, almost 75% of national population growth
occurred in urban areas. Since 1970, population increases have tended to
concentrate in the larger urban centers with the largest population
increases being achieved in the Kingston Metropolitan Region (KMR) which
accounted for nearly one third of Jamaica's total population by 1980. The
KMR covers a total land area of 250 square miles and includes three main
urban areas: Kingston, the capital city with a population of about
500,000; Portmore, a dormitory suburb with a population of around 70,000;
and Spanish Town, the historical capital of Jamaica with a population of
80,000. In 1983, the average household income for the KMR is estimated at
about J$ 100.0 (US$30.3) per week and 75,000 households are estimated to
have incomes below the relative urban poverty threshold of J$ 67.50
(US$20.5) per week. Transport costs absorb relatively large proportions of
household income, especially for lower-income groups, who are estimated to
spend around 14% of their incomes on transport. Higher income households
spend 9% of their incomes on transport. The KMR dominates not only the
urban sector but also the island as a whole. With an estimated population
of about 650,000, it is almost eight times larger than the next largest
city, Montego Bay. Apart from being Jamaica's capital and, therefore, the



- 10
center of Government and administration, it is also the largest consumer
narket, the major source of skilled labor and the country's center for
offices, manufacturing, transport, banking and retail and wholesale trade.
The iAR accounts for about 35% of the island's labor force; over 70% of
industrial activity; 80% of manufacturing employment; and 48% of total GDP.
34,,      Despite attempts in the past to distinguish between local and
national matters in the procedures set up for the governance of urban areas
in general, and of the capital city in particular, Jamaica's urban system
has become so closely interwoven with the national economy that the
management of the DIR and urban facilities elsewhere in the island are
becoming increasingly integrated, de facto, into national Government.
Already, the planning and control of investment in urban areas is
undertaken by national agencies and these agencies are increasingly
:involved in day-to-day urban management and the maintenance of urban
services. The continuation of this trend is somewhat inevitable in an
island the size of Jamaica as the pace of urbanization increases and more
efficient ways must be found to manage urban growth. The development of
this trend is becoming crucial in the case of the KMR as the present system
f local government is proving to be increasingly incapable of providing
the level of services necessary for the basic functioning of the city.
35.       Although the KMR has been spared many of the unmanageable
zonditions of other cities in the world, the physical systems which are
needed to sustain the city-region are beginning to break down, with a
resultant deterioration of urban services and stagnation in the urban
development process. Although many of these breakdowns in the urban system
result from a difficult macroeconomic situation, they also result from
inefficiencies in the governance of Kingston. The principal local
authority, the Kingston St:. Andrew Corporation (KSAC) has little power to
raise revenues on its own.. Modern administrative systems do not exist.
There is no real goal setting, either among the elected members of Council,
or the key officers. In addition, budgets are not funded fully,
expenditures are not recorded in a timely or accurate way, and reports to
management are inadequate. Solutions to the administrative crisis of
governance in the KMR are being examined by Government along with
improvements in the role of national agencies in the provision of services
in the KMR (especially, water and power service, markets and drainage). In
order to provide some background information for the development of
pclicies concerning the future of KSAC, Government has requested assistance
from USAID in performing a management audit of KSAC. This audit is
scheduled for completion lby March 1984. In addition, the principal urban
functions are receiving attention.  Of these, the most important is urban
transportation.
The Urban Transport System
36.       The urban transport system in the KKR comprises a road network
of about 900 miles of which 105 miles are classified as main roads and 565
miles are used as bus routes. Traffic signals control 72 intersections and
15 pedestrian crossings and a comprehensive one-way traffic flow system
operates in downtown Kingston. The vehicle fleet represents 58% of the
national fleet and is estimated to be around 35,000 vehicles of which
26,000 are private cars and 4,000 are public transport vehicles (including
taxis.). The urban transport system is estimated to handle in the order of



11 -
1.6 million person trips per day.  The dominant mode of travel is public
transport (47% of all trips) followed by walking (29% of all trips) and
private car (20% of all trips). The most important trip generators are
work (35%), school (29%) and commercial activities (22%).
37.       Traffic volumes have declined in the KMR since the mid-1970s due
to the decline in the economy, restrictions on the import of vehicles (the
vehicle fleet in the KMR declined from a peak of 54,000 in 1975 to 32,000
in 1979) and increases in fuel prices (which increased from J$ 2.85 per
gallon in December 1978 to J$ 4.55 per gallon in May 1983). Car ownership
also declined but is now on the increase and is currently estimated to be
four cars per 100 population which is still 50% lower than in 1963.
Private cars represent between 55% and 60% of total vehicles on the road
system (and account for the bulk. of fuel consumption in the KKR) whereas
public transport vehicles (excluding taxis) probably represent no more than
20% of traffic volumes on the main road network.
38.       The urban transport system is operating inefficiently in meeting
demand and in the use of both local and national resources. The KMR
vehicle fleet, which represents less than 50% of the national vehicle
fleet, accounts for over 60% of national fuel consumption. The cost of
operating vehicles in the KMR is significantly higher owing to the poor
condition of road surfaces (which can result in a doubling of vehicle
operating costs per mile) and to insufficient capacities at intersections
(which cause delays and unnecessary fuel consumption through increased
stopping and idling time). The main road network is congested at peak
hours and it is a common habit for car drivers to circumvent congested
streets or intersections by using residential roads as bypasses, thereby
increasing vehicle operating costs per trip and causing damage to the
residential roads. Public transport services are unreliable and
overcrowded. Although 92% of the population in the KMR have a bus stop
less than 300 yards from their place of residence, bus availability is so
poor that the majority of people wait for periods of 20 minutes or more for
a place in an already overcrowded bus. In most cases, optimum bus routing
plans are not being used, there i.s a duplication of routes, and services
are overextended in suburban areas. Thus, inefficiencies and waste are an
integral part of the public transport system.
39.       Public Transport.  Travel demand for public transport is
characterized by highly diversified origins and destinations, by widely
variable trip lengths and a very high daily per capita trip rate 1.05 trips
per head. While downtown Kingston is the dominant focus for travel demand
(in part due to the concentrat:ion of market activities) trips are widely
scattered throughout the KMR antd spread over an eighteen hour day (from
6:00 a.m. to midnight). Weekday peak demand is generally from 7:00 a.m. to
9:30 a.m. and between 3:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. with passenger volumes
reaching 70,000 or more per hour. Public transport trips total 780,000 per
day and, until the end of 1983, were provided on 77 individual bus routes
by the state-owned bus company, JOS, and by a variety of private
operators. Since January 2, 1984, public transport is provided by private
operators (see para. 42). Fares range from J$ 0.50 to J$ 0.65 (US$0.15 to
US$0.20) per trip.
40.       The Jamaica Omnibus Service (JOS).  JOS was founded in 1953 as a
private company and was nationalized in 1974 as a public sector enterprise



- 12 -
under the Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport (MPUT). JOS was
already finding it difficult to cover its operating costs due to its
unprofitable fare structure, when, in 1979, bus workers' wages were doubled
by Government in a year which also witnessed a serious decline in
performance. No regular supply of spare parts had been available since
nationalization and, by 1980, although JOS owned a fleet of 567 buses, only
45% were operational. By 1982, JOS was in the terminal stages of decay.
Average daily bus turnout was as low as 140 and ridership had dropped by
23% from the preceding year. JOS was also in the terminal stages of
insolvency and by 1983, JOS operations involved the Government in overall
deficit financing on the order of J$ 2.0 million (US$0.6 million) every
ironth.
41.       Private Bus Operations.  Privately-owned and operated minibuses
first appeared on Kingston's streets in significant numbers in 1974. Their
operations were illegal as JOS had been granted the monopoly for public
transport services. By 1977, they numbered 1,350 and accounted for one
third of passengers carried. Since 1977, JOS has been obliged to grant an
increasing number of sub-franchises to private operators because of its
inability to provide service; by 1982 legally franchised private operators
were carrying 80% of total passengers. In addition, it would appear from
sample surveys that severaL thousand passenger trips per day were being
provided by illegal minibuses. The number of illegal minibuses were
impossible to estimate with any accuracy but may well have totalled 500
buses in addition to the 80 privately-owned large buses and 1,300 minibuses
which were legally authorized to operate on JOS routes.
42.       Public Transport Policy.  As a consequence of the serious
deterioration of JOS and the relative vigor of the private sector, and in
keeping with its overall strategy of reducing the role of the public sector
in the economy, Government decided in December 1981 to privatize public
transport operations in the KMR.  This decision reflected the Government's
determination to improve the efficiency of the system and make it more
responsive to demand by encouraging competition in the provision of
services.  JOS ceased operations on December 31, 1983.  A revised bus route
structure has been developed and provides the basis for the designation of
franchises to private opereLtors. The urban route structure nominally
operated by JOS has been reduced, by amalgamation, from 44 routes in the
main urban area to 20 (see Map IBRD 17505). The revised route system has
been organized into 10 franchises each of which is designed to encourage
competition between franchise holders on contiguous routes. All the routes
are designed to be individually profitable and no subsidy of any kind would
be granted to franchise operators. Fares do not exceed those currently
charged by private operators and accepted by the public.  Franchises offer
security of operational rights for six years.
4.3.      Government is in the process of setting up a Transport Authority
(TA) wh:Lch would exercise all the powers necessary for the complete award,
control and monitoring of the franchises as well as the consolidation of
vehicle inspection and licensing. The TA would replace the existing
l:Lcensing boards operated by the MPUT. The TA would review the performance
of private operators every three months especially regarding adherence to
prescribed routes, hours of operation, frequency of service, fare structure
and overloading. It would be administered by a Board of Directors



- 13 -
comprising: a Chairman, appointed by the Minister of Public Utilities and
Transport; a Managing Director; and representatives of MPUT, the Attorney
General's Department, the (MOC (W)), the Commissioner of Police and the
franchise holders. The Managing Director would be responsible for the
overall administration and management of the TA which would have a staff of
around 100.
44.       Traffic Management and Road Maintenance.  Although the road
network in the KMR is extensive and the main roads are all paved, the major
part of the road system is operating below capacity due to inadequate
traffic management (the control and regulation of traffic flow through
traffic signs, traffic signals, lane markings, channelization of
intersections, one-way streets, parking control, etc.) and the inadequate
condition of road pavements and of sidewalks (which forces pedestrians to
use the carriageway and impedes traffic flow).
45.       Signing and road marking are the responsibility of the Traffic
Engineering Services Section of the City Engineer's Department of KSAC.
The 3,000 traffic signs which are designed and located to control traffic
flow have either faded or are in such poor condition as to be ineffective.
Advance direction signs do not exist and practically all road markings have
become invisible. Although most critical intersections are controlled by
traffic signals, none are linked to provide for synchronization of corridor
flows. Many are controlled by controllers which are incorrectly programmed
for peak and off-peak traffic flows, few are vehicle actuated due to
electronic or road surface failures which have destroyed the loop detectors
buried in the roadway, and 30% are out of service or defective on any given
day. The performance of the signal system has deteriorated to such an
extent of unreliability that many motorists regard a red signal as a
"yield" indicator.  Individual intersections are not adequately channelized
to efficiently handle traffic flows and traffic movements. This is
especially noticeable on the main road network, along bus routes and in the
downtown area. The resultant congestion is more due to poor intersection
design or layout than physical capacity per se. The comprehensive one-way
system which exists in downtown Kingston operates relatively well except
for inadequate signal control at the many intersections in the system.
46.       KSAC is responsible for the maintenance of all roads in its
jurisdiction except for the main road network of rural St. Andrew which is
maintained by the (MOC (W)). On the whole, the carriageways of the primary
and secondary roads in the KMR are in a reasonable condition although curbs
and footways have been neglected and considerable fatigue and pavement
stress exists where drainage is inadequate. Over 100 miles of the road
system have inadequate sidewalks and many are primary roads which cater to
large volumes of vehicles and pedestrian traffic. Although there is little
evidence of failure or deficiencies in the basic infrastructure of the main
road network, irregularity of road surfaces and surface deterioration is
becoming widespread, even where overlays have been recently applied. There
is little planning of routine maintenance and works tend to be carried out
on an ad hoc basis. Repair work is often poorly implemented and the
continuous re-appearance of potholes at the same locations throughout the
network is evidence of serious deficiencies in the work methods and/or
materials used.



- 14 -
47.       Traffic Law Enforcement.  The enforcement of control over both
stationary and moving traffic is defective in the whole KMR area but
particularly critical in the downtown area. The institutional framework
for road and transport policy has been weak and fragmented and the problems
of public transport operations, road and traffic signal maintenance and
inadequate traffic management have all contributed to a lack of clear
guidance to the police concerning traffic control priorities. Too often,
the police are used in forceful and remedial rather than preventative
roLes.  The traffic branch of the Jamaica Constabulary Force (JCF) is not
short of staff but lacks essential equipment such as motorcycles, tow
trulcks, 2-way radio transmitters, support vehicles for accident squads and
training aids needed for preventative traffic control. The staff,
moreover, is not sufficiently experienced or trained in traffic management
procedures.
48.,      Administration.  There are too many agencies involved in the
management of roads, traffic and public transport in the KMR and the
assignment of responsibilities has not always been clearly defined nor have
the functions been delegated in an appropriate manner. Government has
decided to regroup responsibilities for managing the urban transport system
uncLer the MPUT and MOC 1W).  A unified Island Road Authority (IRA) is in
the process of being established under MOC (W); it would ultimately be
responsible for the design, construction and maintenance of all road
infrastructure throughout the island. As a first step in this process,
Government has decided that MOC (W) would be responsible for the design,
cornstruction and supervision of traffic improvement and management schemes
and for the execution of periodic road maintenance in the KMR under the
proposed project. As is discussed above, MPUT is also in the process of
establishing the TA in order to consolidate the vehicle licensing, vehicle
inspection, public transport licensing and driver licensing functions and
to manage the privatization of public transport operations in the KMR.
49.       Bank Involvement in the Sector.  Although the proposed project
represents the Bank's first project in the urban transport sector, the Bank
has assisted in the development of road transport through five highway
projects over the last 19 years. A loan for the first Highway Project
(Loan 408-JM) for $5.5 million was made in April 1965. It helped finance
detailed engineering and construction of main roads and was completed in
1973. A 1975 Project Performance Audit Report highlighted the need for
detailed engineering and improved cost estimates before loan signing, now
standard practice for road projects.  Follow-up projects focused on road
maintenance (Second Highway Project, Loan 899-JM, $9.3 million), and
construction of arterial roads (Third Highway Project, Loan 1032-JM, $13.2
million). In the latter project, construction was completed by force
account after substantial deLays; a 1981 Project Completion Report
concluded that MOC (W) performed well under extremely difficult financial
circumstances and with its r(esources overtaxed by the unplanned force
account construction. A Fourth Highway Loan (1740-JM) for US$16.0 million
was made in 1979 for road maintenance and is substantially completed; the
project is reasonably successful, although severe Government budget
constraints prevented it from fully achieving its objectives. To continue
support for the Government's main road maintenance program, a Highway



- 15 -
Maintenance Project (Loan 2293-JM, $15 million) was approved by the Board
in June 1983 and was declared eiffective on January 31, 1984.
50.       The Bank lending program has also supported the development of
other infrastructure in the KMR, particularly in the water and power
sectors. In power, Bank Loan 454-JM ($22 million, 1966) helped finance
approximately 121 MW of generating capacity. A follow-up loan (1516-JM,
$20 million) in 1978 was directed at the expansion of the transmission and
distribution system in urban centers, as well as providing technical
assistance for the improvement of operating and maintenance practices.
Because of financial constraints and a severe shortage of foreign exchange
in the economy, the maintenance program recommended by consultants financed
under the loan was never fully implemented, resulting in serious
unreliability of electricity services during 1981-1982. A third power loan
for $30.5 million 1982 (2188-JM) provides for the rehabilitation of the
existing plant, as well as additional financing to assist in restoring the
security and reliability of the electricity supply to an adequate level.
51.       In the water supply sector, Bank lending focused on the
improvement and expansion of water supply and sewerage facilities in
Kingston through two loans, for $5 million in 1969 and $15 million in 1975
(468-JM and 1146-3M). Implemeritation of the second project was
substantially delayed, in part as a consequence of difficulties in
obtaining import licenses, the inexperience of contractors, and shortage of
materials. As a consequence of cost overruns the scope of the project was
reduced; it was completed in mid-1983. Weak management of the National
Water Commission (NWC) and inadequate tariffs were major obstacles
throughout project execution. The Government has recently installed a team
of consultants to strengthen NWC's management, and substantially increased
water and sewerage rates in November 1983.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
52.       The project was identified through IDB-financed pre-investment
studies completed in 1980. The project was prepared with the support of
funds from the Fourth Highway Loan (1740-JM). Appraisal took place in May
1983. Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1984. The Jamaican
delegation was led by Mr. Harold Milner, Financial Secretary.
Project Objectives and Scope
53.       The principal objective of the project is to support the
development of an adequate and efficient system of urban transport in the
KMR, capable of supporting the Government's overall economic strategy,
including the use of the private sector where feasible. In meeting this
objective the project is designed to meet the following two conditions:



- 16 -
(a)   to minimize the annual amount of foreign exchange needed for the
operation of the urban transport system; and
(b)   to reduce budget expenditures by Government.
54.       The project wou]Ld comprise the implementation of traffic
management and control measures, the development of road maintenance
programs and the provision of technical assistance and training
facilities. Each of these is designed to achieve the above objectives
within the framework of thie following urban transport policy measures: the
closure of JOS (see para. 42), the establishment of the TA (see
para. 43), and the reorganization of the public transport route structure
and the award of franchises to private operators (see para. 42). The
Tovernment would not undertake capital investments in urban transport
infrastructure in the KMR without prior consultation with the Bank (Loan
Agreement Section 4.04).
Detailed Features of the Project
55.       Traffic management measures represent the most important category
of investment ($10.8 million or 48% of project costs) as they are expected
to provide the greatest contribution to improving the efficiency of public
transport operations as well as generating net foreign exchange savings
through reductions in vehicle operating costs. The greatest amount of in-
vestment (30%) would be used for improving traffic flow along the three
most heavily travelled public transport corridors in the KMR: Spanish Town
Road Corridor (0.82 miles); Half-Way Tree - Cross Roads Corridor (0.53
miles).; and Hope Road Corridor (0.85 miles). The remaining investments in
1rraffic management measures concern intersection improvements and traffic
signals. Fifteen intersections have been identified as requiring improve-
ments in order to provide adequate levels of service for proposed public
transport flows. The improvements involve the redesign of each junction to
permit turning movements, increase capacity, reduce delay and improve
safety. The existing traffic signal system would be extensively rehabili-
tated in order to be a more effective tool in the management and control of
traffic flow. In addition, some 40 junctions would be signalized as part
of the corridor improvement and intersection improvement packages. The new
system would respond to micro-computer control in order to accommodate
different traffic demand profiles, and therefore reduce delay and, con-
sequently, vehicle operating costs.
56,       Road maintenance would represent $7.8 million or 34% of total
project costs and is expected to generate the greatest proportion of
foreign exchange savings. Many bus routes traverse roads which have
suffered extensive surface deterioration due to lack of maintenance; in
addition much of the principal traffic route network, the residential
access road network, and the sidewalks in the metropolitan area require
urgent attention to avoid the need for extensive reconstruction. A 7i year
road and footway maintenance program for the road network in the KSAC area
has been developed based upon agreed routine and periodic maintenance
criteria in which periodic maintenance (sealing and resurfacing) would be
carried out by contract and routine maintenance, including trench re-
instatement, would be carried out by force account. The road maintenance



- 17 -
component of this project would be limited to financing part of a 7 year
periodic maintenance program, equipment purchase, depot construction and
technical assistance requirements. The balance of the periodic maintenance
program and routine would be financed by budget allocations.
57.       Technical assistance and training account for $4.1 million, or
18% of total project costs, and are designed to assist Government in the
implementation of the proposed project and to provide for improved
efficiency in the management of the urban transport system in the KMR.
Technical assistance, staff training and equipment would be provided to:
(a) the Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport for the management of
the revised route structure and privatization scheme (84 staff months); (b)
the Ministry of Construction (Works) to strengthen project and traffic
management (216 staff months); (c) the Kingston St. Andrews Corporation to
strengthen road maintenance procedures including budgeting and accounting,
and to develop a cost-effective drainage improvement program (130 staff
months); (d) the Ministry of Finance and Planning to strengthen the Town
and Country Planning Unit which is responsible for urban planning (30 staff
months); and (e) the Jamaica Constabulary Force to train traffic police (36
staff months). A uniform allowance of 10% has been made on the cost of all
infrastructure components to cover the costs of design, tendering and
supervision of civil works. Technical assistance costs have been estimated
at US$3.5 million, covering 496 staff months at an average cost of US$7,000
per month.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
58.       The project requires an investment of US$29.7 million.  Govern-
ment would finance the local costs of the project, including taxes and
duties, estimated at US$11.2 million, from budgetary resources over the
7-1/2 year implementation period. The foreign exchange requirements of the
project amount to US$ 18.5 million, of which US$2.6 million concern the
proposed traffic signal system.  The Government is seeking suppliers'
credit financing for the traffic signal system. The proceeds of the Bank
loan would finance the remaining foreign exchange requirements of US$16.0
million, including the front end fee. Retroactive financing up to a total
of US$0.5 million is recommended for expenditures for consulting services,
preparatory civil works, equipment and technical assistance carried out
after May 15, 1983 (Loan Agreement Schedule 1, para. 4).
59.       Cost estimates were based on final designs for the traffic signal
component, on advanced preliminary designs for the public transport
corridor improvement schemes, and on preliminary designs and extrapolations
of sample designs for the intersection improvement and road maintenance
components. Final designs have been substantially completed for Spanish
Town Road which is scheduled to be executed within the first year of
project implementation. Base cost estimates are expressed in prices of
January 1984 and are based on quantity estimates from prevailing contract
rates for equivalent work or equipment in Jamaica. Physical contingencies
are estimated at 10%. Price contingencies have been derived from estimates
of inflation at 12% per annum for local expenditures and 7.5% (1984); 7.0%
(1985) and 6.0% (1986-1989) for foreign expenditures.



- 18 -
Procurement
60.       Procurement of civil works, materials and equipment estimated to
cost over US$1.0 million for each of the public transport corridors
(amounting to US$9.7 million in aggregate) and for the construction of the
proposed maintenance depot (amounting to US$0.9 million) would be through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement (July 1980). Contracts for each of the 15
intersection improvements, amounting to US$1.9 million in aggregate, for
the periodic maintenance program (resealing, resurfacing, sidewalk and curb
rehabilitation, and local drainage improvements) amounting to US$9.1
million would be through local competitive bidding procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank and which are on file. It is expected that the
individual contract packages for the intersection improvements will be too
small to attract the interest of foreign bidders; they would, however, be
entitled to participate. The content and timing of programs for the
procurement of vehicles, miscellaneous maintenance equipment and traffic
engineering and law enforcesment equipment would be subject to prior
approval by the Bank. Contracts with an estimated cost of more than
US$,50,000 each, amounting ito US$1.5 million, would be procured through ICB,
following the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (July 1980); other
contracts for miscellaneous equipment and vehicles, associated with the
technical assistance and training programs, with an estimated cost below
US$50,000 but not exceeding an aggregate of US$0.7 million would be
procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank, with foreign suppliers permitted to bid. For contracts
smaller than US$10,000, local shopping would be used, involving at least
three price quotations from open suppliers listings.  This is expected to
total no more than US$0.2 mnillion. Consultants would be selected and
recruited in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981). (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
Project Implementation
61.       The Government is moving toward the unification of road transport
activities under the proposed Island Road Authority which is consistent
with the concept of integrated physical planning for the island as a
whole. As a part of this process and to avoid burdening KSAC with the
technical, financial and managerial responsibilities involved in the
implementation of the project at a time when the future of KSAC is under
review, Government has decided that MOC (W) would be responsible for the
overall implementation of the project.  This represents a logical choice as
KSAC is in such disarray that MOC (W) has been performing infrastructure
ancl traffic engineering work on KSAC's behalf for some time.
62.       The Directorate of Major Projects (DMP) within MOC (W) has set up
a P'roject Implementation Unit (PIU) to coordinate the execution,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of project components. DMP within
F[OC (W) would be responsible for the execution of the periodic maintenance
component (including the supervision of associated technical assistance and
training programs) and for the execution of the civil works associated with



-- 19 -
the construction of the central maintenance depot in collaboration with
KSAC. In order to permit adequal:e execution of the routine maintenance
program to be financed and supervised by KSAC, a plan for the
reorganization of the Roads and lWorks Section of the Engineering Department
of KSAC and the recruitment of key staff (a road maintenance engineer) and
technical assistance (a consultant/accountant) posts would be finalized by
July 1, 1984 (Loan Agreement Section 3.04). A condition of effectiveness
for the proposed loan would be that arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
would have been agreed between MOC (W) and KSAC (Loan Agreement Section
6.01 (c)).
63.       The Traffic Engineering Section (TES) within the Directorate of
Technical Services (DTS) in MOC (W) would be responsible for all traffic
management measures associated with the public transport corridor schemes
and intersection improvements; in addition, DTS would be responsible for
the rehabilitation and installation of traffic signals. In order to
improve the efficiency of its operations, TES has recently reorganized and
recruited key staff, including a Chief Traffic Engineer.
64.       The Urban Development Corporation (UDC) would be the executing
agency for the MOC (W) for the design, construction and supervision of
civil works associated with Spanish Town Road, since the improvements on
the road take place in the West Kingston Market Redevelopment Area, under
the jurisdiction of UDC. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
would be that contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank would have
been agreed between MOC (W) and UDC (Loan Agreement Section 6.01(c)).
65.       Each of the recipient agencies for technical assistance, training
and equipment (MPUT, KSAC, JCF, MFP, MOC (W)) would recruit technical
assistance, organize training programs and procure equipment under the
general supervision of MOC (W) which would have overall responsibility for
the execution of this component.
Disbursement
66.       Disbursements of the loan would be made as follows:
(a)   100% of foreign expenditures and 51% of local expenditures for
civil works (US$9.2 million equivalent);
(b)   100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports of equipment
(US$1.9 million equivalent);
(c)   100% of foreign expenditures and 33% of local expenditures for
technical assistance and training (US$2.3 million equivalent);
(d)   100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures for
design and supervision (US$0.3 million equivalent);
(e)   Front-end fee of US$39,900;



- 20 -
(f)   Initial deposit into the Special Account (US$0.6 million
equivalent); and
(g)   Unallocated (US$1.6 million equivalent).
Disbursements would be agaLinst standard documentation for all items except
those under US$10,000 equivalent for which disbursements would be made
against statements of expenditure (SOE) certified by DMP. The period of
,lisbursements is estimated at 7-1/2 years, with a loan closing date of
September 30, 1991.
Special Accounts
67.       In order to reduce the interval between the time payments would
be made by the Borrower and receipt of reimbursement from the Bank, a
Special Account would be established in the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ) from an
advance of loan proceeds. At the same time, the Government would establish
an(d fund a Project Account. The establishment of these accounts and the
funding of the Project account would be conditions of loan effectiveness
(Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (a)). The Special Account would be
dlenomirnated in US dollars and would be established with an initial deposit
of US$0.6 million approximately equivalent to average projected quarterly
clisbursements. The Project Account would consist of an advance equivalent
t:o estimated total expenditure on the project for the corresponding period
(US$1.0 million) (Loan Agreement Section 3.01(c)). These amounts would be
used by MOC (W)/DMP for project expenditures. The Project Account would be
replenished through withdriawal from the Special Account and from the
Government's counterpart contribution to the Project (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01(c) (iii). The Government would request replenishment of the
Special Account by the Bank through standard disbursement procedures.
Conversion from US dollars to Jamaican dollars would be made at the
cfficial exchange rate prevailing on the date the payment was made, if the
payment took place no more than 60 days before the withdrawal request.
Otherwise, the exchange ratle prevailing on the date of the withdrawal would
be used (Loan Agreement Schedule 5).
68.       Financing for the recurrent expenditures associated with the
periodic and routine maintenance program agreed with the Bank would be
provided by Government to KSAC.  The present systems of budgeting and
accounting for routine maintenance expenditures are not adequate to support
the improvements in routine maintenance that the equipment and depot (to be
financed under the project) are designed to achieve. It has therefore been
agreed with Government that a separate account would be established,
maintained and adequately funded in KSAC for expenditures concerning the
r:utine maintenance program agreed with the Bank.  The establishment of
this account would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement
Section 6.01(d)). In addition, the Government would assure a level of
funding sufficient to carry out the routine road maintenance program agreed
upon between the Government and the Bank (Loan Agreement Section 4.03(c)
(i'ii)).



- 21 -
Financial Reporting and Auditing
69.       MOC (W)/DMP would establish and maintain separate
component-related accounts with responsibility for their consolidation in
the PIU under the supervision of the Financial Controller. Such accounts
would be maintained in accordance with sound and generally recognized
accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank to enable MOC
(W) to provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect the
progress and financing of the project and its component parts. The
Government would arrange for the Auditor General to provide to the Bank
within seven months of the close of the fiscal year, annual audit reports
of: (a) component-related accounts; (b) the Project Account; (c) the
Special Account; and (d) the KSAC routine maintenance account. (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.02). The audit reports would include statements on
the adequacy of the accounting systems and internal controls, on the
reliability of SOEs as a basis for loan disbursements and on the compliance
with loan covenants.
Economic Analysis
70.       Economic analyses were performed on all project components.   All
project components are strongly justified. The weighted average IRR is 67%
in terms of vehicle operating costs (VOC) savings and 62% in terms of
foreign exchange savings. No time savings have been included in the
benefit streams. It has been estimated that the IRR's would increase by
five to ten percentage points if time savings were to be included. The
road maintenance component is expected to yield the highest rates of return
which confirms the cost effectiveness of improved road maintenance in
generating VOC savings in urban transport operations. The impact of the
project on improved efficiency and productivity in the KMR has not been
measured due to the lack of an adequate methodology for such measurement.
It is nevertheless evident that the impact would be positive and that the
project would contribute to improved efficiencies in the functioning of the
urban economy.
Distribution of Project Benefits
71.       Improved efficiencies in the public transport system are
estimated to have the potential of reducing expenditures on transport up to
US$1.70 per household per week which represents around 4% of household
income and 28% of current expenditures on transport for the urban poor.
All investments proposed in public transport corridor improvements,
intersection improvements and traffic signal improvements would contribute
extensively to these improved efficiencies in public transport operations.
Around 75% of road maintenance investments would be directed to
improvements along bus routes and at least 25% of technical assistance
investments could be considered to be concerned directly with the
improvement of public transport services. Overall, 78% of project
investments can be considered to contribute toward improved public
transport services and, hence, to generate direct benefits to the urban
poor, who make up the majority of public transport passengers.



- 22 -
Risks
72.       Any new program involving a decisive change in policy, such as
the privatization of public transport operations in the KMR, necessarily
carries certain risks. These include the unwillingness or inability of the
private sector to respond to Government's initiative, the lack of adherence
tc) prescribed schedules by private operators and the development of a
complex and inefficient bureaucracy to administer the franchise system.
The preparatory studies have examined these risks and they have been taken
into account as much as possible in the design of the franchising process
and of the technical assistance. The Government has shown a serious and
sustained commitment to the realization of this policy over the two years
of its preparation and refinement. Safeguards to detect and respond to
problems with the franchising system have been built into the franchise
agreements themselves and into the monitoring procedures to be adopted by
TA.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Establishment of the Special Account, establishment and
initial funding of the Project Account, and establishment and initial
funding of a separate account in the Roads and Works Department of KSAC
related to routine road maintenance activities would be required for loan
effectiveness, in addition to agreement of arrangements acceptable to the
Bank between the Borrower and UDC and KSAC. Other special conditions of
the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. I am satisfied that
the proposed loan would coniply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
P'ART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
hashington, D.C.
February 1, 1984



ANNEX I
--23 -                                                        Page 1 of 6
JAMAICA                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT  /b         MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOMfE
1960-        197(p0   ESTIMATE-       LAT. AMERICA & CARIB               EUROPE
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM)
TOTAL                                    11.0         11.0         11.0
ACRICILTULRAL                             4.9          4.9          4.7
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       410.0        710.0        1180.0              2088.2                      2453.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         654.0        1405.0       1440.0               1407.6                      1580.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    1629.n           1877.0       2194.0
URBAN POPUILATION (% OF TOTAL)          33.7          37.2         41.9                 65.9                        47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                    3.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (NILL)                                      5.0
YFAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                    2065
POPITLATION DENSITY
PER SC. KM.                          148.2         170.P        197.6                 35.6                        82.0
PER SQ. KrI. AGRI. LAND              332.4        387.0         462.1                 93.2                       157.2
POPTJLATION AGE STRUCTURE (N)
0-14 YRS                             41.7         47.0          40.1                 40.1                        31.9
15-64 YRS                             54.0          47.5         53.9                 55.8                        60.9
65 AND ABOVE                           4.3           5.6          6.0                  4.1                         7.2
POPULATION .ROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                   1.5/c        1.4/c        1.4/c                2.3                         1.6
URBAN                                  2.5           2.4          2.5                  3.7                         3.4
CR10DE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUC)           39.4          35.3         28.9                 31.5                        25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)              9.4          7.6          6.3                  8.1                         9.1
CROSS REPROOUCTION RATE                   2.6          2.6          1.8                  2.0                         1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TnOUS)                ..         19.3         27.0/d
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMfEN)              ..           ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                           98.0          99.0         87.0                113.0                       108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REOUIREC4ENTS)         94.0        111.0         119.0                111.3                       129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              58.0         67.0          64.0                 67.9                        92.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            28.0         33.0          34.0/e               34.1                        34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE               3.1          1.2          0.3                  5.3                        10.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            64.2         68.6         71.2                 64.6                        67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)           51.5          32.2         16.2                 62.6                        71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (CPOP)
TOTAL                                 20.9/h        62.0         86.0/d               64.8
URBAN                                 64.6/h      100.0         100.0/A               77.8
RURAL                                  5. 7/h       48.0         79. 0o               44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    . .        94.0         94.0/d               54.6
UtRBAN                                            100.0         loo.O07               69.8
RUIRAL                                   . .        92.0         91. 07               29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              2590.0        2640.0       2830.0               1776.0                      1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                420.0/k    1730.0          630.0               1012.2                       762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                240.0         240.0        260.0/f              477.0                       334.0
URBAN                                200.0/g      220.0            . .               667.5                       216.0
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..               1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..         17.0         19.0/f               27.2                        20.0
NOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   3.9          4.3           .
URBAN                                  2.7            ..
RURAL                                   4. 8          .           ..                   .
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  1.9           1.6           ..
URBAN                                   1.6           ..
RURAL                                  2. e            .           ..                   ...
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..           ..                   .
RURAL                                    ..           ..            .                   .
_- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _      _      _      _      _      _      _      _      _      _      _      _   _ _ -_ _ -_ _    _ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                                Page 2 of 6
JAKAICA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEUT
JAMAICA                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEiRAOGES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTDIATE) /b
196Db /b  RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCCME
1970/  ESTIUATE-1/b    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    92.0       119.0         99.0              105.0                     102.2
MALE                     92.0       119.0        98.0               106.3                     107.2
FMIALE                  93.0        119.0       100.0               103.6                      97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    45.0        46.0         57.0               40.0                      56.5
MALE                     44,'1       46.0        54.0                38.6                      63.4
FEMALE                  46.0         45.0        60.0                41.2                      48.9
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)            9.0         5.5          2.3/i             34.0                      22.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             56.0        47.0         41.0               30.7                      24.7
SECONDARY                           21.0        26.0         22.0/i             16.7                      22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)               81.9        95.4         90.0                79.5                     69.7
CONsONPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           20.3        38.5           ,.               45.6                      52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          90.2       266.4        331.0              228.2                     165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              7.0        37.3         76.9              108.3                     124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              62.0       113.6         59.6               64.1                      96.3
CINIMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         ..          ,.          0.2/f              2.9                       2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            607.0       634.0        809.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    37.2        38.8        39.9                24.8                      34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               39.0        29.5         21.4               31.3                      40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  24.9        25.6        25.2                23.9                      23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               37.3        33.8         36.9               31.3                      42.0
MALE                                48.7        42.4        45.2                49.8                      55.2
EMUALF.                            26.7        25.6         28.9               14.8                      29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.6          1.2                1.4                       0.9
IN1COME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            30.2/         * --
HIGHEST' 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS          61.2          ..J
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             2.2' 
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             8.2/ i
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       501.0/e            289.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       439.0o7             184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
[URBAN                                ,           , .       585.0/e            519.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..        509.0o7            372.1                     409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLrrTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..        80.0/e
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APP.LICABLE
N 0 T F S
La  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availabillty of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Due to migration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1975; /e 1977; /f 1974; /g 1962;
/h Percentage of housing units with piped water; /i 1976; /4 1958; /k 1963.
May 1983



- 25--                                                                                      ANNEX It
Page 3 of 6
EFtielTicNb It SOCIAL IND.IhATORS
totes:  ticho-gh ito fa.- ar  doo  fecsure  generally  udge  th -os   otoittosad reliable, It sosid alto ho cord thatP they cap to   eitrntoal
coparble becasef. he. ac at   sadardized defielle   and cocet  usd bydl  rc   ottie,ncletn                                     h  dat.-   The dor.    r,enoblal,.rd t
decetbc order  of  agide            dits- it-teds, and thIaractert eecetain  .ajor diffeecsbnercot e
Tha referenc      geua or  (11 tho sane  -ntY grasp of the tobe-t cointy and (2) Aconrgeuathoeha  highP or ono  ag                               -ncc  thntecc,e     raeo   h
eujeecury   enet  o f "   "l coe  Oil En.trees  gropeee  eteleIts  NorharcotdMdltse lehnobcto fst                                                        lrol-ctrl
Total h. ntl.     c faceth  Hre      Iocllt: ladPro  r  i           Pndsor;I9 pbocat   I qA --i-s  AMo  ah .edfca  ech-oal ut  chosth  loe                                            I
lily  and fIgI. dat.                                                                                  Pri-nf  a `lPIpee 'h'ste-1 d-   tcto, orha,  and  carol              ..pta.   (total,
li   c   AIA-lIl- tpprcpr  ete ia-e at, Icerard  -arte  peies,                                                   h,iol   npbs   o   ecr   ooeladoetledbnla   r
1910,.. 110, ard-11   aa                                                                                yo   eatoepylic    rtalfomec   toidlg   elcpal  cnod
A~~1-21   aglil-1111-1 -lt.  -d IA.p.l.,treirelotyItlued,   oraIbap.lltaids,                                                     d~ b bonr  Icclod   holt   n
ro IgoterIllctlirlt  blors   tcaleanln    e  rsit; 196oorde                                                       lloft_e ag   fmdclfc  o ls    a   thntclproa
Toa19p60       o, t-ea,latoda   us7 of Jolyl   (1970,   911  and.) 191%esln    atnaia   e      Tr :s :Icuabo  At odastac P aediH bagd
daft                                                                                              ftd 19otpitalo  dleldedby rio  nonher at bedt
hebta Popalatton (peccort cc eatobyl I                                                  ..-...lotila of 'aebaiP-to  pntiil pnp...otlan;
amnEN      otle   1b,191Re  li    aa.Aeag    trof doohod.   hpet                                                                             piot oe  tohold  - total, uran,, dyaa
foolrani  ya  ll -Iaro    oulrn    rjc in   r   oe  a   ilsdnel   oomas   I boatdee or ledger say or ro  oar re  IrchdedIt
tatl  oplalo  byug  ad  etsr  thirnofoll  ad letllp-hetraleh__d for sttiIra  -Porp                                      byases.
r96ap970ra      19co 0 d-ral  aa,eaelIee,canyaalleiadP 9de  bg,  tenpecr-te pf -Isro alro aofado,j                                                          F.,-percorLeorridraret
conbt1oetirr  of deYA-tlIysdlea  r   rnsfrprsc tpnoe.o   oa,ohr   n   aolP                                                       dsci~dllyospoclorly
britlunscy papalselan  - In a scetloosry  piapalins-an  ttere_ in onIgeoot-
1111, Ilp-TIsloabicd   opatr  eriinaienaduse  lr _                                                            et  o tosl
eslctn   nth    aiso   h  poeta                       oa-e-plmarI ~                              p t     hlc dl-ag    ooalr;oral h-   ohladn  c-hl  -btro agd h-i
tot Iani. of ther copuatio  In- rh-er11,odeo  oeo                      le   tyArsh bt adh srd   ford fraog....                                  th  af  .corplcaaao   a
Yernttorr   by oleio  Ia reochhe       r   ',,                -d- heyor  hesttloay               lross   papli  Ar  bolos d or atore - th.ffailoylae
pcealotrcc Noroity                                                                          adaroflan  roqairen  se boot fiat loots ci opproaol prlnityrAMIf-tricsiao;
total area; I hbl, 19ff, and 1981 Iota.                                                papi-ltishaLlyof12no1  yenta ofa be; .ace cod ror  act    e
re    -".Is  arcitotfol          A loc- isp teda  ahoreil for h agetleayl. lan                     gPeAilyeoP_ d
ah;11,1911 , ocd 1981 dat.                                                               l toa   nrler   erco   fscrdarh                          VoaInlu_Iotita   r
paaetn   1963I, :Ifh, ende 1981 data.                                    Pilsgli-teIcbEc- canto -(Pran,d  teodr                                      oal, sblent  era led- I
ycarpopaloeanforIb -Il d lhl-llit -ard   f91 -8                                              rep-dic  leoo
pSti.. lyocaIPIoo   196, 190, ad 191 doa,                                                        OthtTl_
he   an ll-eroc- Ian-tr-o  Tif she  reloe    rco  age-specPI ificyr                         tAdrortfos(e   taan    caatn      1   yeeo-oncc    a   a
ofbIth-oto dttr _nda  ac  ie f ratna_                     oll   lotn                                 contye  ob_     odlte,tg
pradrt.                                                                                lerineraIpechoosrd  roelat 0thTa.rae_Oora_febrodraseto
fomlyPlnooglont(crcor  f  arie  ato)    ftnnrae   f  arIe                                   lrealcols  pe  tanar  proarot  oclaetat le`edItreciec
ocean  of chl d-eplngi n Ir Gb-t  lotY oh    t  hrbcarodeler                                         IP- octrlno  cod          -1- - anorutrrl-t-11ti-:    d-nfzltatruoa-
aPnPolptc-Aiancclllcdcoaiae, pndtiaecadreland                                                      ebe''        PIPy"lcapa        ba-esfotlhnifo-1e-,-
baa-n  or  orlaol acrageptolcotPrrc - nerh-s f1911-lb. 1910,P and 1911
cat     190a,    7   ld-ti1-a    -                                                                     I.f  teloIy- dd
o      9o6, udcane  In70  sark.19  set. hcplsnldata   ed   ed,toprbo    9f   90ad18   a
RPliIs  ndto fol  erentn-   .atd lossh-          itlo  a.Pst  percent) -rPetalPhlottor farce'at -Ilretoefttataefrc
oealerca  0c  ntlocdbyPP  osdaophoalgca  cos  o  oeoeaoatlereIprcre  -Lao  lrco!                         ~             In'hig  fcor,haen   n
at hat-L -      Iu l  toce50161-k, 19117C  and 197011dt.                                                anII at  ct,  ue   ndgsu  ceaconhage f-meal labo  tarce   160
re_caplc rnrhlo             ... pco -et -I  Iga Ire   a)- bPrlaoi Pnnto h- dPer cepte                     1910 and 191 lat.I  dhPP1i    9d1   ,r 
ru1970ot -n   hchI   rusaoodh   nsa-raen                  hee160   91,ad981dt,   bs   rehsd  n1'd-ae-la  otc  e
do IIa.                                                               J.                  iOCit-- l-hTdIh-pfI__
fdralTi                       P dpi O-tliT Tl ilT 1bh
lieEneiaa  at-anc y fiean)-Y_ inrR:obc  fyacc  II   eaco                                     The _oIatIng        - eclathr   nyayalae  outsa   ae                       ab    n
at9lto1     1t1  111-0 sod 19811961 data.                                                              hould     _rA toeproe   s_h   onaechl oo In
Fnarcraiylclrrhatd)AyadetslifFandroe                                                                  oiiedloatrnryaccloolr                               cecac rh-.ta.        adI    ladl-
brne   Iterlo(c1  l  ucan    Iedrua) aihrnenbearestoarafYdl
uatoruoplhlnrudeneeatdtoe-ta-en           _trers  oro _rotlbu                                stttetllIernrticlroolctyttptaubaadIc
cnaralto       dcat-uc    staiIcIceerdbthtensr-g,adItalea                                                        dnpastyenIaeb                 y_lluo _-osdcfferag            pcpIra
Faaltaryo-llcnprenoo,fletraetlrbaahus                                       ca                          eo         lltcsefhrd    sYa.y. lralolllcodrcbsrhe                       ...ca  .
urna    ctnc  ootot  r  tadpsoloatd nt  or  tan20  nces            sol  lt  ojatcrot- for                - hgetn T o   nn     f.c uban d- aran
a ince ta' becoonfatadas bY1-o chIn.     Ionh-,aces  ofd      _ eba..r..ea   P"",PotOo   hoa   hauepancy  cot-at_Ipcct9-oba
loo.lrea    receocsboatosa.lplratlehoenforadrrt-Prct   fpplus5(raoodccl4harnbalc
eenetacboooeioldoaratnopedalnroorinatpato                             pfe
the day ln fetching  the tsolly' seitocoends.~~~~~~~ff-
FQANDrsoT to lettattco- prcn-oIooteln  -tta,ara,  n
ryilesat  sImila  lrrslalon  AllPPiaey 1913N.                                                                                                     -



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population:       2.2 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita:  USS1,350(1982)
JAMAICA:  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Amount
(mll ion USS at                   Actual                                    Preliminary
current prices) ------------------------------------- ---      ----------------
1981       1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   1980    1981             1982
PRICES
GOP Deflator (JS:  1974=100)                   121.2   134.0   150.4   189.4   219.6   256.0   274.7           298.4
Exchange Rate (JS per USS)                       0.91    0.91      1.25    1.48    1.77    1.78    1.78          1.78
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)         Average Annual Increases tS
(at current prices)                   (at constant 1974 prices)
1976          1981          1986           1976-81          1981-86
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS a/
Gross Domesti c Product            2939.4          100.0         100.0        100.0           -1.4               2.0
Agriculture                       223.9           7.8           8.2          8.2           -1.0                2.5
Industry                         1015.2          34.6          30.5         31.3           -3.7                2.9
Services                         1700.3          57.6          61.3         60.5           -0.2                1.5
Consumption                        2621.3          93.0           86.2         78.5           -3.0              -0.3
Gross Domestic Investment           625.4          20.5           17.1         21.2           -4.4               6.9
Exports GNFS b/                    1409.2          29.6          34.9          37.2            2.1               3.9
Imports GNJFS b/                   1716.4         -43.1         -38.2        -36.9           -3.7                0.9
Gross Nat onal Savings              250.2           10.2           4.3         13.8          -14.9              30.3
As % of GDP                                     Preliminary
1977/78       1979/80      1981/82                          1982/83
PUBLIC FINANCE c /
Current Revenue                                  22.0          26.4         29.0                              28.8
Current Expenditure                              28.2          30.6         31.6                              32.8
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                       -6.2          -4.2         -2.6                              -4.0
Capital Expenditure                              11.3           8.3         12.3                              11.9
Foreign Finance (net)                             0.7           3.3         11.0                               7.5
a! At market prices.
b/ Based on balance of payments data.
c/ Fiscal year - April/March 31. Figures refer to Central Government operations.
d/ Estimated.



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
1976-81         1981-86
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (S)                           -1.9              1.5
GIP per Capita Growth Rate lS?                -2.9              0.5
ICOR                                         -17.7             10.6
Marginal Savings Rate                          8.0              8.0
Import Elasticity                              4.6              0.5
Annual Growth Rate (S)
(at constant 1974 prices)
Amount          ------------------~---- ----~-~-~-----------------------------------------------
Indicator                 (million USS at                     Actual                         Provisional           Projected
current prices)      ----    -       -      -      -       --- -                                  -
1981           1977    1978    1979    1980    1981           1982   1983    1984   1985   1986
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)    974.0              6.6    -7.0      0.9    -2.1      0.8      -13.2      -2.0   13.2    8.3    8.3
Bauxite/Alumina                760.1            17.2     3.6      0.0      7.4     3.3      -29.7      -3.9   13.6    6.0    8.0
Sugar/Bananas                   50.8            -6.1    -7.1    -4.6   -32.7  -12.7          14.3      11.6    6.6   12.5    3.4
Other                          163.1            -5.5   -31.4      8.6   -10.9    -1.8        26.7      -2.4   17.8   14.7   12.4
Merchandise Imports (c.l.f.)   1457.4             -5.5    -7.3   -11.3   -11.8    12.5        - 0.3       2.7   -2.6    2.8    2.6
Food                           101.9           -21.2     2.7   -31.6    -6.4    22.8         24.6       6.9  -17.6    2.0    1.5
Petroleum                      488.8             1.4   -14.7    18.5  -17.8    -2.7         -14.0       0.7    4.4    4.8    4.8
Capital Goods                  295.2           -14.8    -7.2   -14.6   -21.3    30.5         17.3    -7.9   -3.8    2.0    1.5
Other                          571.5           - 9.1   -12.9   -21.8    -2.5    13.3         -4.2       9.5  -2.1    2.3    2.2
PRICES
Export Price Index a/ (1974=100)  -            154.0   248.6   319.4   380.9   379.1        354.3    466.3  768.4  882.5  966.4
Import Price Index (1974=100)      -           125.7   205.8   310.8   369.7   421.7        396.7    481.4  772.7  877.5  964.9
Terms of Trade Index (1974-100)   -            122.5   120.8   102.8   103.0    89.9         89.3      96.9   99.4  100.6  100.2
Compositlon of Merchandise Trade (%)             Average Annual Increases (%)
(at current prices)                       (at constant 1974 prices)
1960    1970    1975    1981   1986        1971-76          1976-81       1981-86
Exports                                          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0         -3.0             -0.9            3.7
Bauxite/Alumina                                 49.3    63.9    60.4    78.1    65.9         -2.5              5.3           -0.2
Sugar/Bananas                                   31.8    14.5    21.6      5.2      8.1       -6.0            -f3.7            9.7
Other                                           18.9    21.6    18.0    16.7    26.0         -3.6             -9.7           11.9
Imports                                          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0         -6.1             -6.5            1.0
Food                                            16.6    13.5    11.6      7.0      7.7       -7.2            -10.5            0.3
Petroleum                                        8.3     6.3    19.2    33.5    30.3        -11.9             -3.9            0.8
Machinery and Equipment                         18.7    29.5    30.9    20.3    21.1         -7.9             -9.3            0.0
Other                                           56.4    50.7    38.3    39.2    40.9         -1.7             -6.8            1.8
a/ JS Indices



- 28 -
ANNEX I
I'age 6 of 6
JAMAICA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(mllions of USS at current prices)
Actual                            Provisional              Projected8/
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981         1982    1983        1984    1985    1986
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of GNFS                    887.9   967.4  1078.0  1165.2  1361.7  1402.3         1233.2  1305.5      1551.5  1813.1  2070.2
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.    656.4   750.6   794.5   814.7   962.7   974.0           767.4   772.3       949.2  1146.7  1338.0
Imports of GNFS                   1123.5   922.5  1048.1  1220.6  1407.1  1737.3         1629.7  1594.5      1624.0  1836.5  2052.7
Of which: Merchandise c.l.f.    907.9   756.2   856.6   994.0  1159.6  1457.4          1366.7  1335.0      1332.0  1505.6  1682.4
Net Factor Services                -74.0  -93.8  -142.4  -167.2  -212.3  -164.5          -134.2  -256.5      -295.5  -350.2  -415.4
Net Transfers                        5.8    20.0    25.7    80.0    90.8   124.3          150.4   148.8       162.0   176.4   189.7
Current Account Balance             -303.8  -28.9  -86.8  -142.6  -166.9  -375.2           -380.3  -396.8      -206.0  -197.2  -208.2
Private Direct Investment c/          -0.6    -7.0   -28.8  -26.4    27.6  -11.5            -15.8    na          na       na      na
MLT Loans Inelt)                       79.2   -5.9   178.9    71.1   207.4   240.2          446.0   247.5       234.7   180.0   175.0
Other Capital b/                       11.3  -18.1  -201.8  -34.2  -118.8    75.7            38.3    29.3        35.0    50.0    65.0
Change in freserves                  213.9    59.9   138.5   142.1    60.7    80.8          -88.2   120.0       -63.7   -32.8   -31.8
(Increase -= -)
International Reserves (net)        -116.3  -176.2  -314.7  -456.8  -517.5  -598.3         -510.1  -630.1      -566.4  -533.6  -501.8
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                179.5    83.0   112.9   171.7   295.8   473.3          581     394         426      365     386
Project Loans                     31.2    26.6    42.6    32.0    47.8    38.1           41      41          50      55       60
Special Financing                  -       10.4   198.8   125.5   139.5   139.4         231     256         256     145      125
Other Official                    73.0    71.0   -71.0    20.3   135.1    87.3          122      13          10       -       13
Government Guaranteed             47.0    38.5    23.3    11.5    50.6    38.4           64      84          75      85       90
Private Direct (net)              -0.5    -7.0   -26.7   -26.4   -11.0    -2.8           na      na          na      na       na
Lines of Credit (net)              -       11.3    33.6    11.5    -9.2      5.0         na      na          na       na      na
Other a/                          28.8  -67.8   -87.7    -2.7   -57.0   167.9           123       -          35      80       98
Official Debt Outstanding          831.8   926.2  1036.1   112.0  1313.6  1769.0         2273    2573        2866    3101    3301
Debt Servlce:  Total Service
Paymentsd/         102.8   159.1   144.6   165.5   177.6   239.4         295      357        420      457     516
Interest            54.2    66.0    62.2    97.9   126.4   138.1          218     263         300     323      341
Payments as % of
Exports             11.2    16.0    12.8    13.6    12.5    16.4          21.0    25.5        25.4    23.8    23.7
Average Irterest Rate on New
Loans (i)                          -        -       -        -       -       -            8.3     8.4         8.8     8.9      8.7
Average Maturity of New Loans
(year)                             -        -       -       -        -       -           15.1    15.5        13.2    13.4    11.7
a/  Projections on a fiscal year basis April 1 - March 31.                                                            December 1983
b/  Includes errors and omIssions.
c/  Includes payments of Interest to IW but not prlncipal, and excludes rescheduled principal payments.
d/  Includes private debt and unidentified capital flows.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of September 30, 1983
-----US$ million----
Amount
Loan   Fiscal                                               (less cancellation)
No.    Year    Borrower            Purpose                   Bank  Undisbursed
16 loans fully disbursed 1/                                   235.3
1284    1976    Jamaica             Population                   6.8       .8
1464    1977    Jamaica             Rural Development           15.0      1.8
1516    1978    Jamaica Public    Power                         20.0       .7
Service Co. Ltd.
1517    1978    Sugar Industry    Agriculture                   18.0     3.1
Authority
1609    1979    Jamaica             Small Scale Industry         7.0       .3
1715    1979    Jamaica             Second Program Loan         31.5       .2
1716    1979    Jamaica             Forestry                    12.0      1.6
1740    1979    Jamaica             Highways                    16.0      1.4
1978    1981    Jamaica             Exports Development         37.0     7.5
Fund
2017    1981    Petroleum Co.       Offshore Petroleum           7.5     4.8
Exploration
2070    1982    Jamaica             Third Education              6.8      6.0
2106    1982    Jamaica             Technical Assistance         6.1      4.8
2107    1982    Jamaica             Kingston Export Free        13,5    12.9
Zone
2188    1982    Jamaica             Power                       30.5    30.0
2293    1983    Jamaica             Highway                     15.0    15.0
2294    1983    Jamaica              Industrial Credit          15.1    15.1
2315    1983    Jamaica              SAI, II                    60.2    25.4
2320 2/ 1983    Jamaica             EDF III                     30.1    30.1
Total (net cancellations)                          583.4
Of which has been repaid                            56.4
Total now outstanding                              527.0
Amount sold                          1.6
Of which has been repaid             1.6             0.0
Total now held by Bank                             527.0
Total undisbursed                                  161.5
1/ Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican
Telephone Company and cancelled in the same year.
2/ Not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30, 1983
US$ million
Date         Borrower            Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1961   Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.   Pre-mix concrete           0.2        -       0.2
1969   Pegasus Hotel of
Jamaica Ltd.            Tourism                  2.2      0.7      2.9
1980   West Indies Glass
Company Ltd.            Glass containers        2.3         -      2.3
1982   Jamaica Flour Mills    Food and food pro-
cessing                5.0        -       5.0
9.7      0.7    10.4
Less cancellations, terminations
participations, sales and repayments             2.4        -      2.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                  7.3       0.7      8.0
Total Undisbursed                                  0.1        -       0.1



- 31 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
JAMAICA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
a) Loan Request made to Bank: November 1979
b) Appraisal Mission: May, 1983
c) Completion of negotiations. January, 1984
d) Planned date of effectiveness: June, 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The following would be conditions for loan effectiveness:
(i) Special and Project Accounts to be opened (para. 67);
(ii) Separate account for KSAC to be opened to carry out the routine
road maintenance program (para. 68); and
(iii) Contracts satisfactory to the Bank between the Borrower and KSAC
and UDC to be agreed (para. 62, 64).
(b) Other special loan conditions are:
(i) The Roads and Works Section of KSAC's Engineering Department to
be reorganized and key staff recruited by July 1, 1984
(para. 62);
(ii) The Government and KSAC would not undertake capital investments
in urban transport infrastructure in the KMR without prior
consultation with the Bank (para. 54);
(iii) The Government would ensure a level of funding in the recurrent
budget allocation of KSAC sufficient to carry out the routine
road maintenance program agreed between Government and the Bank
(para. 68); and
(iv) The funds in the project account would be maintained at a level
equivalent to US$1.0 million, or about three months of estimated
expenditures for the project (para. 67).






IBRD 17505
7[1<55                      [AMAICA-                                                                                                                                      A                               OCTOBER 1983
KINGSTON  URBAN  TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                        /                                                  I- -'                           U                      or. . 
"A                                                                -                                                                2 5 A  \h-h J1-1 t  C  7/
.\ ~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~ ,                                                     -K ,                        1+    A-                       FedA 0hs(  p}J  K5AC5CA -un 5G5
5~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~o rio                                                                                                                                                                     --1                                   Sud 7uS NeilXF.'.7) ,t   -i 
k~~~~~~~~~ A ~ ~   ~            ~           ~           ~           A                                                                 R..ddp,dA  d
// 1 Prpb ., \ PRT RE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lull.-Vs : A evthgeeu                                                                                                                  \0> 
E      K SA   H~~~~uf   T     OAplo.  ,                                                                     -
| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/    RAY                                                                                          C                 '1<Frt UCIO    trFT \, , > ,tN             ''           /          :;;;    , u, l-4;A  K      Q  t:E,  j
V~~~~~~~~~~-.
MANAGEMENI SCHEME'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~StMt
T'dll1f -'Wu                                                                                                                                r tCosRosordr ,  ;        7DR;t::p1 l;1fi;5;0:p :   #9
Fruscued          T          ANPR                                                                                                                        = ,=   .\   !  , '    I:o =llsru  '-  ;   ,2 __o .- - -. .
'      rupsedrbus fleer                                                                                                                                              (ror  <FR  I   on-tA 9 _ _ 
___ Rurcl rnLtes X l / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~(./                                                                                                  >!,-,  A     A I f   A1   4
I 4-t-:           ,u,,L /u nes                                                                                                                                                4RstOp.O1      -                                          -           1S      ;.;   ;Et) A,  /mDa
RIevIs,e  T-A olre,                                                                      .-1 f: 
A--RVrs,snon4 rosrest  ;   71  yu/                                                                                                                                                                    t :X55aHslob'<
.......R..Count bonoYMAI.....  ;N fZf5tQ,FEN1ftaft4*ffwmmfaviVANpfCn6sf  t92f~l xifE u. ; 
R, -d TA b,, -t, ,t-k~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                        rI? 5
____   lo   ue-I                                                                                                                                                                                                           e/                  MuA
RfuMier-d-   -<                                                                           p
P   /                                                                                                                             uuIBA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
--  A serB, perennial                                   Al   orb    ,                                                                                                    .                                                       us,> Acesi-irO Cu _
- --  A.,rrs, scoscrol  I                   -2            ~           ~            ~           ~           ~~~                                 ~~~~                                              All CA      eAr's~~~~
Onus                                                  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" H  OETR    AAreuuoepmoeM'$ePiueooeuefr  io-noeuo                                                                           ~     e       ~     nl
- neilie                        '        PIOMlTB$ i                                                             errecue  -ne     lrernCoersROlluWQrAuenufloliuOonreiA  ~  yPNs~~  4-,uueu, Ae
------ P-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h b-d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      Pcu Crue1i ru uuuuA5 Aemo  e rilOe  ico0 uerpu
Paulo, b-d.,y                                                                                             _____________________ 2__



