OFFICIAL         LOAN NUMBER 2389 JM
DOCUMNIENTS
Loan Agreement
(Kingston Urban Transport Project)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2389 JM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       M  "                  , 1984, between
JAMAICA (hereinafter called the Blrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B)  the Borrower intends to borrow from foreign financial
institutions loans equivalent to $2,600,000 for the purpose of
financing a portion of the foreign exchange cost of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOC" means the Ministry of Construction (Works) of the
Borrower;
(b)   "MPUT" means the Ministry of Public Utilities and
Transport of the Borrower;
(c) "MFP" means the Ministry of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower;


﻿-2-
(d)  "KSAC" means the Kingston and Saint Andrew Corporation,
established and operating under the Kingston and Saint Andrew
Corporation Act;
(e) "BOJ" means the Bank of Jamaica;
(f)  "JCF" means the Jamaica Constabulary Force )f the'Bor-
rower;
(g)   "UDC" means the Urban Development Corporation of the
Borrower established and operating under the Urban Department
Corporation Act;
(h)  "Project Area" means the area defined as the Kingston
Metropolitan Region in the Kingston Metropolitan Regional Plan
published by the Ministry of Finance and Planning in November
1978;
(i)   "Special Account" means the ac:count to be opened and
thereafter maintained by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
(j)   "Project Account" *means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement;
(k)  "Jamaican dollars" means the currency of the Borrower;
and
(1) "Routine Road Maintenance Program" means the Borrower's
road maintenance program described in Schedule 6 to this Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen
million dollars ($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from


﻿-3-
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in BOJ a Special Account in dollars
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1991
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
fee equivalent to thirty-nine thousand nine hundred dollars
($39,900).
(b)   On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for such Semester.


﻿-4-
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii)  "Qualified Borrowings" means: (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project th ough
MOC with the participation of MPUT, MFP, KSAC, UDC and JCF with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineerizig and public transport prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services rnd other resources required for the purpose.


﻿- 5 -
(b)  Without any limitation to the generality of the fore-
going, the Borrower shall make its best efforts in order to con-
tract with foreign sources the financing of any part of the Pro-
ject which is not financed under the Loan.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) open and thereafter maintain in
BOJ until the Closing Date, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, a Project Account in Jamaican dollars for the use of
MOC in meeting expenditures for the Project; (ii) deposit therein
an amount equivalent to $1,000,000; (iii) promptly replenish the
Project Account with amounts equivalent to amounts withdrawn from
such account for the carrying out of the Project; and (iv) ensure
that the Project Account is at all times operated in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of assisting the Borrower
in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with: (i) UDC, for Part A
(i) and (ii) of the Project in respect of the Spanish Town Road
Corridor; and (ii) KSAC, for Part B and Part C of the Project in
respect of the corresponding maintenance, technical assistance
and training programs provided therein.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with
its obligations under the arrangements referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section in such a manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purpose of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not alter or abrogate such arrangements.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be em-
ployed, promptly as needed, engineering, planning, management,
accounting and training consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank, such consultants to be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than July 1,
1984, cause KSAC to: (a) submit a plan satisfactory to the Bank
for the reorganization of its Roads and Works Department; and


﻿-6-
(b) appoint a road maintenance engineer and an accountant within
its Roads and Works Department with functions and responsibili-
ties satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services financ-
ed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; (iii) furnish to
the Bank quarterly progress reports on the implementation of the
Project in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(iv) furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.


﻿- 7 -
(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for pur-
poses related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is* the policy of the Bank in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of its members, not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the '-an'


﻿- 8 -
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of., the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, separate accounts and records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c)  The Borrower shall: (i) have, or cause to have, the
accounts referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than seven months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in


﻿- 9 -
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Loan with-
drawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expend-
iture have been used for the purpose for which they were provid-
ed; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
ing said separate accounts, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably re-
quest.
(d) The Borrower shall cause BOJ to: (i) have the Special
Account, the Project Account and the accounts referred to in
Section 4.03 (c)(ii) of this Agreement for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
not later than seven months after the end of .each such year, the
report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of such accounts
and all such other information concerning such accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the roads includ-
ed in the Project to be adequately maintained and repaired, all
in accordance with appropriate engineering practices and economic
criteria.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause all facilities, construction
and equipment included in the Project, and all road signals and
related equipment in the Project Area to be adequately maintained
and all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in
accordance with appropriate technical and engineering practices.
(c)  Without any limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall:
(i) submit to the Bank for comments, by March 15, 1984
and by March 15 every year thereafter until the
completion   of  the   Project,   proposed   annual
expenditures to be incurred by KSAC and financed
by the Borrower, in respect of the carrying out of
the Borrower's Routine Road Maintenance Program;


﻿- 10 -
(ii) cause KSAC to open and thereafter maintain a sepa-
rate account to carry out the Routine Road Mainte-
nance Program; and
(iii) ensure that the amount available in such account
is at all times adequate for the timely carrying
out of the Routine Road Maintenance Program.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank
for comments any plan for capital investment in the urban trans-
port infrastructure in the Project Area; and (ii) give due con-
sideration to the views expressed by the Bank before proceeding
with any such capital investment.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that:
(a)   any party to the arrangements referred to in Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement shall have failed to perform any of
its respective obligations thereunder, or any such arrangements
shall have been terminated; and
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been sus-
pended, cancelled or terminated in whcle or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph   (i) of   this paragraph   shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfac-
tion of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, can-
cellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available


﻿- 11 -
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur subject to the proviso of subparagraph
(ii) of paragraph (b).
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a)  that the Special Account and the Project Account have
been opened in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.02
(b) and 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, respectively;
(b)   that the amount specified in Section 3.01 (c) (ii)
shall have been deposited in the Project Account;
(c) that the Borrower shall have entered into arrangements
with UDC and KSAC in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.02 (a) and (b) of this Agreement; and
(d) the account specified in Section 4.03 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement has been opened on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank.
Section 6.02. The date           #/V10, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12. 4 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston
Jamaica
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE                2166 RESERVE JA
Kingston
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United Stazes of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
JAMAICA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works               9,200,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
51% of local
expenditures
(2) Equipment                 1,900,000          100% of foreign
(except for Part                           expenditures
A (iv) of the
Project)
(3) Technical
assistance:
(a) Consultants'         2,300,000          100% of foreign
fees and                              expenditures and
training                               33% of local
under                                  expenditures
Part C of
the Project
(b)  Design and            300,000          100% of foreign
supervision                           expenditures and
50% of local
expenditures
(4) Initial deposit             640,000         Amount due
in the Special                             under Section
Account                                     2.02 (b) of
this Agreement


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Fee                          39,900        Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(6) Unallocated               1,620,100
TOTAL              16,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 may be
made in respect of Categories (1) and (3) on account of
expenditures made before that date but after May 15, 1983.


﻿- 16 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
iture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limit-
ing any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are the development, imple-
mentation and maintenance of an adequate and efficient system of
urban transport in the Project Area and are consistent with the
Borrower's plans to minimize the foreign exchange requirements
for the operation of vehicles in the Project area and to reduce
public expenditures in the transport sector. The Project consists
of the following parts:
Part A:   Traffic Management
Improvement of the public transport corridors of
Spanish Town Road, Half-way Tree/Cross Roads and Hope Road,
in the Project Area through: (i) rehabilitation and recon-
struction of road sections; (ii) redesign of road intersec-
tions; (iii) implementation of traffic control measures,
including one way systems, bus priority facilities and bus
interchange facilities; and (iv) rehabilitation of the
existing traffic signal system and acquisition and installa-
tion of additional traffic signals for about 40 road inter-
sections.
Part B:   Road Maintenance
Periodic road maintenance of about 128 miles of roads
in the Project Area, including: (i) resealing of about 100
miles of residential access roads; (ii) resurfacing and re-
habilitation of curbs and footways of about 28 miles of
principal traffic roads; (iii) rehabilitation of curbs and
sidewalks for roads carrying heavy pedestrian flows; (iv)
improvement of drainage at about 35 locations in order to
avoid the disintegration of carriageways; (v) acquisition
and utilization of about 60 units of road maintenance equip-
ment; (vi) construction of a depot for management and stor-
age of maintenance equipment for the use of KSAC; and (vii)
establishment of a road maintenance unit within KSAC.
Part C:   Technical Assistance and Training
Strengthening of the Borrower's capabilities in the
planning and management of the urban transport system in the
Project Area through the provision of technical assistance


﻿- 18 -
and training to MOC, MPUT, KSAC, MFP and JCF including: (i)
carrying out technical assistance and training programs sat-
isfactory to the Bank for the technical staff of MOC, MPUT,
KSAC, MFP and JCF; (ii) acquisition and utilization of
office, micro-computing and communication equipment and
vehicles for MPUT and KSAC; (iii) acquisition and utiliza-
tion of accident investigation equipment and other traffic
police equipment, including vehicles, mobile radios, visual
training aids and radar units for the use of JCF; and (iv)
acquisition and utilization of traffic management equipment
for the use of MOC, including vehicles, traffic-sign and
lane-marking equipment, micro-computing equipment, traffic
counting machines and one hydraulic lift truck.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Aortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1988
through   June 1, 2000                      615,000
On December 1, 2000                              625,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before                      1,00
maturity


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidd-
ing as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the pub-
lic of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary in-
formation to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compet-
itive bidding.              '
3.    Identical or similar equipment and materials, and vehicles
shall be grouped together for the purpose of bidding so as to
form bidding packages estimated to cost not less than the equiva-
lent of $50,000.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 22 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works for Parts A (ii) and B (i), (ii),
(iii), (iv) and (vi) of the Project estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be procured under competitive
bidding procedures locally advertised acceptable to the Bank,
provided, however, that the contracts so procured shall- not
exceed the aggregate amount equivalent to $11,000,000.
2.   Goods that cannot be grouped for bidding purposes in accor-
dance with paragraph 3 of Part A above may be procured under com-
petitive bidding procedures locally advertised acceptable to the
Bank, provided, however, that the goods so procured shall not ex-
ceed the aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000.
3.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less
may be procured on the basis of price quotations from not less
than three suppliers or manufacturers provided, however, that the
goods so procured shall not exceed the aggregate amount equiva-
lent to $200,000.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b)  After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank


﻿- 23 -
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (3) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c)  the term "initial deposit" means an amount in dollars
equivalent in the aggregate to $640,000 allocated to Category 4
and to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to,,
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusive-
ly for eligible expenditures in accordance with the prcvisions of
this Schedule. For each withdrawal authorized under this Sched-
ule, the Borrower shall cause BOJ to debit the Special Account
with the dollar equivalent of the amount in Jamaican dollars, or
any other currency other than dollars, so withdrawn determined on
the basis of the rate of exchange between the dollar and such
currency in effect (a) at the date each payment shall have been
made if the payment has taken place within 60 days before the
date of the withdrawal in question has been requested; or (b) in
the case of withdrawals requested in respect of: (i) payments
made before the period specified in (a) above, or (ii) payments
to be made directly from the Special Account, on the date each
such withdrawal shall have been made.
3.   The Bank shall, at the request of the Borrower, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter and on the basis
of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Bank at such inter-
vals as the Bank shall specify, the Bank shall further so with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Ac-


﻿- 25 -
count with amounts equal to payments made out of the Special Ac-
count for eligible expenditures, but only to the extent that: (a)
the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount remain-
ing on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such re-
quest, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of the
initial deposit; and (b) the Borrower shall have paid into the
Project Account payments required under Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement. Upon failure to make such payments, the Bank may
refrain from making further deposits into the Special Account
until such time as the said payments have been made. Except as
the Bank may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the initial
deposit shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective Categories (1) through (3), and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Bank into the Special Account after the initial
deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect of
each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account such
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest, showing that such payment was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Bank: (a) when the Bank shall have determined at any time
that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the Borrower
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b) unless other-
wise agreed by the Bank, when the total unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan allocated to Categories (1) through (3), minus the amount of
any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Bank and of any
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
be equal to the equivaleftt of twice the amount of the initial
deposit, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower and shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, be
made only after and to the extent the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be uti-
lized in making payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 26 -
6.   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank, prior to any further deposit into
the Special Account by the Bank, deposit into the Special Account
or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, and
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, refund to the Bank such
amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿- 27 -
SCEDULE 6
Routine Road Maintenance Program
The six-year routine-maintenance program for the urban and
rural roads in KSAC starting on October 1, 1984, involves the
maintenance of roads included in the Project Area, and is
estimated to cost J$ 5.0 million (US$1.5 million) per annum as
follows:
J$ Million (in constant prices)
Labor                                           2.5
Material                                         1.2
Equipment                                       1.3
TOTAL                                      5.0
In addition, administrative overhead supervision and cost
would amount to approximately J$ 0.6 million (US$0.2 million),
giving a total of J$ 5.6 million per annum.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank t ereunto
this          day of        198
FOR SECRETARY


