Report No. 928-IN                                                        FILE. CuPY
Appraisal -of ;a Project
to Improve Fertilizer Production
Fertilizer Industry Credit; India
November 24, 1975
Industrial Projects Department
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Except where otherwise indicated, all figures
are quoted in Indian Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.0         =    US$0.1282
Rs 7.80        -    US$1.00
Rs 1,000,000         US$128,205
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
All weights and measures are in metric units.
1 Metric Ton (t)    =    1,000 Kilograms (kg)
1 Metric Ton (t)    =    2,204 Pounds
1 Kilometer (km)    =    0.62 Miles
1 Hectare (ha)      -    2.47 Acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ANP            Ammonium Nitrate Phosphate
CAN            Calcium Ammonium Nitrate (25% N)
DAP            Diammonium Phosphate (18-46-0)
DCM            Delhi Cloth Mills
FCI            Fertilizer Corporation of India
FAI            Fertiliser Association of India
GOI,
Government   Government of India
GSFC           Gujarat State Fertilizer Co.
HPCL           Hindustan Petroleum Co. Ltd.
IDBI           Industrial Development Bank of India
IEL            Indian Explosives Ltd.
K20 (K,
Potash)      Potassium Oxide Content in Fertilizers
MMTC           Metals and Minerals Trading Co.
MPC            Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals
N              Nitrogen Content in Fertilizers
NFL            National Fertilisers Ltd.
POIP           Plant Operations Improvement Program
P205 (P',
Phosphate)   Phosphate Content in Fertilizers
SPIC           Southern Petrochemical Industries Corp.
SSP            Single Superphosphate
TPY            Tons Per Year
TSP            Triple Superphosphate
Indian Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



INDIA
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT TO IMPROVE FERTILIZER PRODUCTION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS      . .................................   i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION         ........................................  1
II.   FERTILIZER USE IN AGRICULTURE .......... ..............        2
A.   Agriculture in India ............................         2
B.   Supply and Demand for Fertilizer .......  ........        2
C.   Current Situation ..........*. ............*..            4
D.   Price and Market Prospects         ......................  6
III.   THE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY IN INDIA .....        ................  7
A.   Historical Development .......................            7
B.   Present Fertilizer Industry Situation .....               9
C.   Feedstock and Transportation ............   .            12
IV.   SECTOR FINANCING REQUIREMENTS .....       ...................    12
A.   Investment Program .       .............................    12
B.   Cost of Imports of Fertilizers and Raw Materials         13
V.   PROJECT SCOPE ........      ................................    14
A.   Project Components ......       ........................    14
B.   Project Description ......      .......................    14
C.   Project Implementation and Administration .......   18
VI.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN ........... ...........   19
A.   Capital Costs .         ................ .................    19
B.   Financing Plan and Onlending Arrangements ........   20
C.   Procurement and Disbursement .....        ...............    23
This report was prepared by Don Brown, Denis Carpio, Yermal T. Shetty and
Eustachio Tortorelli of the Industrial Projects Department.



2 
Page No.
VII.   FINANCIAL &NALYSIS ..................................... 23
A.  Operating Costs and Benefits .23
B.   Financial Rate of Return ..., ...................... 24
C.  Major Risks ....................................... 24
VIII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...................................... 25
A.  Economic Rate of Return ........................... 25
B.  World Fertilizer Supply and Prices  .26
IX. AGREEMENTS    ..26
ANNEXES
1        World Bank Group Fertilizer Projects in India
2-1      Agricultural Development
2-2      Fertilizer Consumption
2-3       Fertilizer Consumption Forecast
2-4      Fertilizer Production
2-5      Proposal for 10-Year Demand Forecast
2-6      Fertilizer Imports
2-7      Proposal for Committee on Fertilizers
2-8      Pricing Policy
2-9      Marketing and Distribution
2-10     Credit Situation
3-1      Historical Development of Fertilizer Industry
3-2      Description of Feritilizer Corporation of India
3-3      FCI's Recent Overall Production Performance
3-4      Productivity in the Indian Fertilizer Industry
3-5      Petroleum Industry in India
4-1       FCI Ongoing Projeci: Costs and Financing Requirements
4-2       Fertilizer Investment Program
4-3       Trombay IV POIP Coimponents
4-4       Financing Sources :;or Fertilizer Investment Program
4-5       Foreign Exchange Cost of Fertilizer Consumption
5-1      Description and Analysis of FCI Sub-Projects
5-2      Neyveli-Project Description and Analysis
5-3       Rourkela-Project Description and Analysis
5-4      Madras-Project Description and Analysis
5-5       GSFC-Project Description and Analysis
5-6      SPIC-Project Description and Analysis
5-7      HPCL-Project Description and Analysis
5-8      Coromandel-Project Description and Analysis
5-9       Zuari Agro-Project Description and Analysis



- 3 -
6-1       Capital Cost Estimates by Company/Sub-Project
6-2       Capital Cost Estimates by Type of Sub-Project
6-3       Calculation of Price Escalation Factor
6-4       Description of IDBI
6-5       Disbursement Schedule
7-1       Inflation and Price Assumptions
7-2       Increase in Fertilizer Output Due to Project
7-3       Summary Financial Costs and Benefits
7-4       Summary of Financial and Economic Rates of Return
8         Summary Economic Costs and Benefits
MAP
IBRD 10453R2 - India - Major Fertilizer Plants and Refineries






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of India has undertaken a major program to expand
fertilizer production to meet the increasing needs of the agricultural sec-
tor.  An important part of that program is to improve capacity utilization
in existing plants, and the Government has requested an IDA credit of US$105
million to assist in achieving this improvement. Total cost of this program
is estimated at US$239 million, including US$92 million in foreign currency.
ii.       The Bank Group continues to play a major role in assisting India
in the fertilizer sector; this credit would be the ninth operation since
1967 in fertilizer production facilities, including two by IFC, and seven
by Bank/IDA. At present, there are 16 major operating fertilizer companies
in India, with 20 plants having a total capacity of about 2.8 million tons
of nitrogen (N) and 0.8 million tons of phosphate (P). But India, chronically
short of a number of resources, has been able to achieve only 60% overall ca-
pacity utilization in the fertilizer industry and imports are required to meet
about half of the consumption in the country, thus further aggravating In-
dia's severe balance of payments situation.
iiL.      The proposed credit would assist eight public, joint and private
iector fertilizer companies in removing production bottlenecks, improving
environmental control, diversifying production of industrial chemicals and
assist one petroleum refinery in increasing its fertilizer feedstock sup-
plies. In terms of incremental production the credit would assist in in-
creasing capacity utilization by 253,000 metric tons of nutrients per year.
With this project, and other programs under way, India is expected to achieve
by the end of the decade an overall 85-90% capacity utilization and reach
virtual self-sufficiency in nitrogen fertilizer production. The project
tias an aggregate economic return of 32%, which is understandably high since
the benefits consist of incremental production from existing facilities.
v        The IDA funds would be used for imported equipment and for serv-
ices and would be channeled through the Government to various beneficiaries
Ln several ways. About US$36 million would be onlent to FCI, the major
beneficiary, at 10.25% interest and for 15 years including 4 years of grace.
About US$28 million would be onlent to the Industrial Development Bank of
Tndia at 8.52, which in turn would relend the credit proceeds under terms
,aentical to those to FCI. Furthermore two public sector firms would re-
ceive about US$25.5 million as equity funds directly from the Government
as part of its budgetary contribution to maintain their financial viability,
and one private and one public sector firm would purchase about US$4 mil-
lion of foreign exchange through rupee cash payments. Normal IDA procure-
ment and supervision procedures will be followed. About US$1.0 million
wt,iild be utilized for technical assistance and US$10.5 million would be
initially unallocated.



- ii -
v.        It is increasingly clear that larger supplies of fertilizers alone
are not the sole answer for increasing agricultural production in India.
Other inputs, plus an efficient mechanism for fertilizer distribution and
use and policy changes, are becoming more critical to improved agricultural
productivity. This report reviews the broad aspects of fertilizer use.
Based on this review, the Governtment has agreed to undertake the following:
First, a 10-year comprehensive forecast of fertilizer supply and demand will
be undertaken by the Government and updated annually. Second, a committee
on fertilizers staffed by senior Government representatives will be establishod
to coordinate all aspects of the fertilizer sector.
vi.       There are a number of critical poLicy and institutional issues to be
tackled including (i) industry organization; (ii) feedstock supply and prices;
(iii) adequate infrastructure availability; (iv) raw material and fertilizer
imports; (v) pricing and credit systems; (vi) improved distribution systems;
and (vii) educational and support programs necessary to extend fertilizer
use to small farmers and present non-users. These issues are discussed in
the report and some steps are proposed but most will require substantial
time to effect adequate remedies. Developing and implementing policy
positions on these issues would be a major task of the committee on
fertilizers.
vii.      The most critical role in improved productivity in the agricul-
tural/fertilizer sector will fall on the Government, in implementing neces-
sary policy changes and providing finance. Over the next four years, the
Government must provide about US$2 billion equivalent in investment funds
for fertilizer projects and an additional US$3.6 billion to cover imports
of raw materials and fertilizer products. S,uch demand for finance will
likely put a heavy strain on the Government's budgetary resources and it is
therefore essential that the Government does; all in its power to improve -
directly and indirectly - the industry's eff'iciency and the distribution and
use of fertilizer.
viii.     Based on the agreements reached with the Government, FCI and IDBI
as contained in Chapter IX, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of
US$105 million.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      India's installed fertilizer capacity has expanded greatly over
the past 10 years but actual production has fallen short of expectations
and most facilities continue to operate well below design rates. The
proposed US$105 million IDA credit would assist 8 fertilizer companies in
raising average capacity utilization by 13% by 1979, 1/ reduce polluting
effluents at four of these, and modernize one refinery for increased fer-
tilizer feedstock production. The location of major fertilizer plants
and refineries in India is shown in Map IBRD 10453R2.
1.02      The Bank Group has been actively involved in the fertilizer sector
over the past eight years, with two IFC projects, five IDA projects and one
Bank project (Annex 1).  The IFC projects are private sector investments
at new locations and are now operating satisfactorily; the"'Bank project is
a joint sector investment also at a new location. Each of the IDA credits
involves major expansion of existing public sector facilities coupled with
elements of modernization of these units. As yet, none of--the Bank/IDA
projects is commercially operating and their impact will-only be felt
during 1976-78 and thereafter. Further, fertilizer raw material imports
have been included in the Industrial Imports Credit program for India.
1.03      There remains great scope for improvement in the Indian fertilizer
industry. Operating levels remain low for a wide variety of factors in-
cluding (1) old facilities, (2) shortages of electrical power and other
infrastructure, (3) lack of raw materials, (4) management/labor problems,
(5) financing gaps and (6) technical limitations.
1.04      The Plant Operations Improvement Program (Credit 481-IN, Annex 1),
recognized this need and provided US$17 million to be used in two principal
public sector companies - Fertilizer Corporation of India (FCI) and Fertil-
isers and Chemicals, Travancore Ltd. (FACT). The respective sub-projects
are now being implemented and are expected to improve operating levels by
1978.
1.05      The proposed credit would modernize or otherwise improve opera-
tions at most major fertilizer companies in India. The report describes
the elements of the program to improve fertilizer production and a detailed
analysis of each sub-project is contained in the Annexes. However, recog-
nizing that efficient use of fertilizer is of primary importance to the
success of India's agricultural development, much of the report describes
problems within the fertilizer sector, other than production limitations,
and proposes certain steps to improve fertilizer availability and agricul-
tural productivity.
1.06      This appraisal is based on missions to India in April/May 1975 by
Messrs. Don Brown (Chief), Denis Carpio, Yermal T. Shetty and Eustachio
1/  All years are Indian fiscal years, ending March 31 unless otherwise
noted.



- 2 -
Tortorelli of the Industrial ProJects Department, and Mr. Graham Donaldson
of the Agriculture and Rural Development Department.
IT. FERTILIZER USE IN AGRICULTURE
A. Agriculture in India
2.01      With a cropped area of 168 million hectares India is the third
largest country in terms of cultivated land (after the U.S.S.R. and U.S.)
and second in irrigated land (af'ter China). About 80% of India's 600 mil-
lion population is directly dependent on agriculture and about 45% of the
country's gross domestic product: (GDP) is from the agricultural sector.
As against a population growth of about 2.35% during the decade ending in
1972 the growth rate for foodgrain output during the same period averaged
2.7% annually, of which 2.1% was due to higher productivity. While prog-
ress has been made in expanding irrigation!, high yielding seed varieties,
and fertilizer use, the agricultural sector is still characterized by heavy
reliance on uncertain rainfall, low crop productivity and the fact that most
farmers have yet to adopt modern agriculture practices (Annex 2-1). Much
improved output is essential if India is to keep pace with its rising
population and to improve nutritional levels. The agricultural sector and
fertilizer production have been focal points of Bank/IDA lending in recent
years and progress is slowly but steadily being made.
2.02      The original draft Five-Year Platt target for foodgrain production
in 1979 was 140 million tons but has been reduced to 123 million tons. To
meet the 123 million tons forecast, agricultural output would have to grow
4.3% annually over the next four years after three years of virtually no
growth; such an achievement is, therefore, likely only with favorable
weather. If foodgrain consumption targets are maintained, imports would be
12 million TPY during the 1976-8D period, at an annual cost of US$3 billion.
However, in the more likely event that GOI will still be importing 3-4
million tons of foodgrains in 1979, consumption per capita would Improve
marginally over current levels.
2.03      Agriculture depends on many inputs, including water, seeds, fer-
tilizer, pesticides, research, extension services, credit, and appropriate
pricing and distribution systems, and not all of these are receiving ade-
quate emphasis. Heretofore, the principal focus of the Bank's fertilizer
projects in India has been to increase production. This focus will remain,
but more attention will be given to improving use of fertilizer and inte-
grating this "input" into an overall agricultural approach.
B. Supply and Demand for Fertilizer
2.04      Fertilizer consumption and production in India are analyzed in
Annexes 2-2 to 2-4. Consumption of the three major plant nutrients (N, P,
and K) increased at an average rate of 21% and 22% annually during 1951-1962
and 1961-1972 respectively. During the following three years consumption



has virtually stagnated because of fertilizer scarcity, high prices, inade-
quate credit, and a restrictive permit system for purchasing (para 2.13).
2.05      In the past, fertilizer consumption has always fallen short of
predictions. The Draft Fifth Five-Year Plan estimates a consumption of 5.2
million tons of N, 1.8 million tons of P205 and 1.0 million tons of K20 in
1979, but since the Bank has considered the Fifth Plan targets unrealistic,
most previous Bank/IDA appraisal reports have used figures some 20% lower.
However, based on the current situation of high prices, frequent drought in
some areas and the inability of the administrative system to respond quickly
to changing conditions, even these lower forecasts are likely to be opti-
mistic and a revised projection (by Bank staff) is shown below:
India - Fertilizer Consumption, Past and Future
(in million nutrient tons)
Fiscal Year               N      P205      K20     Total   N:P:K Ratio
Actual
1966                     0.55    0.13      0.08     0.76    7,1:1.7:1
1971                     1.49    0.46      0.23     2.18    6.5:2.0:1
1972                     1.76    0.56      0.30     2.62    5.8:1.9:1
1973                     1.78    0.59      0.33     2.70    5.4:1.8:1
1974                     1.84    0.63      0.31     2.78    5.8:2.0:1
1975                     1.84    0.54      0.36      2.74    5.2:1.5:1
Forecast
1979 Low                 3.0     1.0       0.60     4.6      5.0:1.7:1
1979 Probable            3.5     1.2       0.70     5.4      5.0:1.7:1
1984 Low                 4.5     1.5       1.00     7.0      4.5:1.5:1
1984 Probable            5.2     2.1       1.40     8.7      3.7:1.5:1
2.06      The 1979 "probable" figure of 5.4 million nutrient tons is a hope-
ful target based on needs rather than a scientifically derived projection of
consumption.  Unless policy changes are quickly decided and implemented, the
low figure of 4.6 million tons could easily materialize with a possible nega-
tive effect on foodgrain production and a need for increased food imports.
However, it is difficult to make reliable predictions in the absence of
a sufficient data base and analysis. The 1984 figure is even more of a
target figure, more useful for planning fertilizer production than predicting
agricultural output. Quite obviously, reliable demand forecasts should be
developed as quickly as possible. Through a study to be financed from the
cred7it, GOI will implement a 10-year forecast, to be updated annually, the
first to be completed by March 31, 1977 (Annex 2-5).
2.07      Starting from a low base, fertilizer production (Annex 2-4) also
increased rapidly over the last two decades, as shown below:



=~ 4 -
Comparison of Fertilizer Procuction and Consumption in India
('000 tons)
riscal Year                  Nitrogen                         Phosphate
Production Consumption Deficit  Production Consumption Deficit
Actual
1954                     53           89      -36           14            8     +  6
1964                    219          407      -188         108          117     -  9
1974                  1,070         ,835      -765         390          634      -244
Forecast
1979                  3,400        1,500      -100       1,000        1,200      -200
1984                  5,100        5),200     -100       1,700        2,100      -400
2.08      The forecast assumes that gradually India will become virtually
self-sufficient in nitrogen fertilizer production, but keep importing some
amount of phosphate and all of its potash requirements. To meet its increas-
ing demands for fertilizer, the Government is making efforts to increase the
output from existing plants and is undertaking an ambitious program to add
new capacity.
C.   Current Situation
2.09      The recent fertilizer scarcity in the world resulted in the Gov-
ernment being unable to obtain adequate imports in 1972 through 1974 (Annex
2-6), and paying sharply increased prices for imported fertilizer. Since
India depends on imports for about half of ilts fertilizer needs, this dif-
ficulty quickly led to shortages and to high prices payable by farmers. GOI's
response included: (i) measures to expand production; (ii) regulation of
distribution and use of scarce su,plies; (iii) concentrated efforts to ob- -
tain supplies on the world market, and (iv) regulation of nitrogen fertilizer
prices. To encourage domestic manufacturers to fill the import gap, they
received priority allocations of feedstock and electricity.  While there was
some increase in domestic output, overall capacity utilization remained low
(60% for N, 587 for P). Existing stocks, wh:ich have been maintained tra-
ditionally at a relatively high level, were quickly used up.
2.10      Fertilizer control orders were insl:ituted in 1972 and 1973 to
facilitate equal access by farmers to limited supplies. The orders included
(i) a ban on interstate trade in fertilizer, (ii) a system of allocations to
the states from a central pool, tcgether with the zoning of distribution by
domestic manufacturers, (iii) licensing of fertilizer dealers and abolition
of cash sales by cooperatives, (iv) fixing of- retail margins and (v) intro-
duction of a permit system (ratior card) for eligible farmers.
2.11      The effect, however, was to a large degree the opposite of that
intended. By restricting the free movement of fertilizer, some manufacturers
who had developed markets in particular regions were cut off from these
markets. While the pool allocaticn procedure attempts to ensure that all
states have a proportional share cf supplies, each state in practice tends to



over-estimate requirements. This practice has led to excessive imports and
high stock carry-overs, both at considerable cost to the Government.
2.12      The retail margin was not changed from the 1968 level of Rs 80/ton
of fertilizer, even when transport and storage costs had more than doubled.
Although the margin has recently been raised to Rs 115/ton, studies by the
Fertiliser Association of India (FAI) indicate that it should now be Rs 220-
240 per ton for fertilizer retailing to be profitable. As a consequence,
dealers and cooperatives have been reluctant to hold stocks. To overcome
this problem the central pool has set up stocks in several states.
2.13      The fertilizer permit system was introduced to ration supplies
evenly among farmers. As might have been expected, administration was
difficult, and many small farmers were unable to buy fertilizer for lack
of appropriate papers. There is evidence that this "permit system" was
more damaging than high prices in suppressing fertilizer consumption.
Because of widespread dissatisfaction, almost all states have relaxed the
permit requirement.
2.14        The official response to the fertilizer shortage on the supply
side was to go to extraordinary lengths to obtain imports. Guided by the
high demand estimates of the Fifth Plan, and concerned about the cost to
foodgrain production of a short-fall in fertilizer supplies, GOI contracted
for large quantities of fertilizers. The consequence has been a rapid
accumulation of stocks at high prices (up to US$400 per ton for urea).
2.15      A number of institutions have been involved in fertilizer import-
ation. Requirements are estimated by the Ministry of Agriculture in con-
junction with the states and domestic producers and Ministry of Petroleum
and Chemicals (MPC). The Ministry of Supply arranged for imports from hard
currency countries and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation (MMTC)
was responsible for imports from Eastern European countries, tied aid sources
and for phosphate rock and sulfur supplies. The government-owned Potash
Corporation imported all potash fertilizers. Imports have not been ade-
quately coordinated and deliveries have been bunched with ships waiting 7
to 9 weeks to unload. However, in August 1975, the Government entrusted
MMTC with responsibility for all fertilizer and fertilizer raw material
imports; so the situation should improve.
2.16      There remains, however, little coordination and planning with
respect to fertilizer demand, supply, production, and import policies. The
creation of a committee on fertilizers to coordinate these functions (Annex
2-7) has been agreed. It will consist of a small number of top-level people
representing government and industry. Such a group is expected to provide a
basis for improving performance of the fertilizer sector in India.



- 6-
D.   Price and Market Prospects
2.17      Fertilizer retail prices had been more or less stationary up to
June 1974 when a sharp increase too:: place as a result of the jump in import
prices (Annex 2-8). I'his affected the growth of fertilizer consumption.
Therefore, the Government reduced prites in July 1975 for the main fertilizers
used in the country. Still, the current average farm-gate price for fertiliz-
er in India is apparently one of the highest in the world. The recent changes
in fertilizer prices have been due to high import price and government inter-
vention, particularly in controlling nitrogen fertilizer prices. Nevertheless,
since the price of imports continued to rise after the domestic price had
been set each year, the pool has incurred a substantial deficit in the past
two years. Last year this deficit represented a de facto subsidy of approxi-
mately 37% on nitrogen fertilizer as shown 'below:
India - Nitrogen Fertilizer Prices and Effective Subsidy
Retail Price                      Consumption   Effective
Fiscal Year          Nutrient      Pool Deficit        Million       Subsidy
Rs/Ton  US$/Ton   Rs Milliona   Nutrient Tons   Rs/Ton
11973            2,080      267          -               1.78          -
1974             2,280      292         600              1.84         330
1975             4,350      558      3,000               1.84       1,630
1976             4,020     515         n.a.              2.10        n.a.
'.18      The price of phosphatic! fertilizer is not controlled but is allowed
to change in relation to the price of imported phosphate rock. Since this
price has increased sharply over the past two years, the price of phosphate
fertilizer has, in fact, risen more than the price of nitrogen. Because the
price elasticity for phosphate fertilizer iS usually greater than that for
nitrogen (reflecting the residual effect of phosphates in the soil), this
much higher, unsubsidized, price for phosphatic fertilizer has serious
i,,ptications for fertilizer demand and, consequently, crop yields.
2.19      Taking current average farm-gate NPK prices for fertilizer of
Rs 4,500/nutrient ton and the estimated average realized price 1/ for cereal
grains of Rs 1,400/ton the benefit/cost rat:Lo for fertilizer use on cereals
is as follows:
Grain Yield/Fertilizer Ratio               Benefit/Cost Ratio to Farmer
5:1                                        1.6:1
7.3:1                                      2.3:1
10:1                                       3.1:1
1/   A small portion of grain production is procured by the Government at
Rs 1,050/ton.



-7-
The average ratio of 7.3:1 used in the Fifth Plan is the amount of grain pro-
duced by the use of one nutrient ton and is an average figure for a good
year. A 10:1 ratio is the expected value for high-yielding varieties (HYV's)
under irrigation. Generally, a benefit/cost ratio of 2.5-3.0:1 is required
to ensure farmer adoption of new technology and at a ratio below 2:1 farmers
will cease to use a given technology where there are cash costs involved.
The uncertainty of weather and harvest fluctuations, as experienced over the
past three years, could limit increases in fertilizer consumption unless the
Government acts quickly to establish higher grain prices or lowers fertilizer
prices further. Other areas of concern that could affect fertilizer con-
sumption including marketing, distribution and credit are discussed in
Annexes 2-9 and 2-10.
III. THE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY IN INDIA
A. Historical Development
3.01      Fertilizer production in India, as a modern industry, began some
25 years ago with commissioning of ammonia/ammonium sulfate facilities at
FACT and Sindri, respectively. Prior to that time, there were only several
very small manufacturers of single superphosphate (SSP) based on relatively
simple industrial facilities. Although the original facilities of FACT and
Sindri are obsolete and inefficient by today's standards including size and
feedstock, they represented large-scale facilities at the time of establish-
ment and operated satisfactorily over their first 15 years of production.
3.02      Initially, production was ammonium sulfate (21% N) and SSP (16%
P205), both of which are single nutrient, low analysis materials (Annex 3-1).
The industry has expanded, to higher analysis products such as calcium ammo-
nium nitrate (CAN, 26% N) and urea (46% N) and complex fertilizers such as
diammonium phosphate (DAP), 28-28-0 and 15-15-15 grades. In 1975 urea
accounted for 67% of total N production. The typical size of a nitrogen
facility has increased tenfold from 50-100 TPD ammonia to 600-1,000 TPD
ammonia. Ammonia feedstock sources have also changed considerably (para
3.18). Phosphate facilities have increased in size about fivefold to about
350 TPD P205.
3.03      India's policy toward the fertilizer industry has, since Inde-
pendence in 1947, permitted public and private sector development, as well
as combinations of the two designated as joint sector. All companies
operate under the Companies Act of 1956. However, related policy issues,
such as pricing, allocation of foreign exchange, restrictions on profits,
and foreign participation, have often led to the private sector being de-
terred from investment.
3.04      Fertilizer production was recognized as an important goal, but
up until 1965, actual expansion was slow and production that year was only
365,000 nutrient tons. The slow rate of expansion was attributed to lack of



- 8 -
foreign exchange, reluctance of Indian investors to participate, the Gov-
erment's restrictions on foreign collaborat:ors and repatriation of profits,
and its insistence on use of indigenous equipment. It was during this
period that the first urea project and the first major modern phosphate fer-
tilizer facilities were built in India.
3.05      During the mid-1960s, the Government made a comprehensive shift in
its policy toward the industry, including (i) expansion of public sector fer-
tilizer investment, (ii) abolition of required GOI equity in the private
sector, and relaxation of conditiDns requiring Indian ownership and manage-
ment; (iii) increased credit; (iv) freer role for companies in marketing;
and (v) speeding procedures for project approval and imports of equipment.
Also in 1966, the rupee was devalued from Rs 4.7 to Rs 7.5 to the US dollar.
3.06      The above policy changes resulted in two major industrial develop-
ments. The first was a significant expansion in the private sector (four
plants) and the joint sector (two plants) as a result of the relaxed invest-
ment environment. Four of the six had a foreign company with fertilizer
experience as major equity shareholder and In two (Indian Explosives and
Zuari Agro) the International Fin.nce Corporation participated. All of
these projects were implemented successfully.
3.07      The second development was a major expansion of the public sector
industry, principally FCI (Annexes 3-2 and 3-3).  Two small FCI projects
were implemented satisfactorily, Largely with technical assistance from
foreign contractors, and both have been operating in recent years at rela-
tively acceptable rates. However, in 1966-67, while these two projects
were underway, the Government dec:Lded to expand production with maximum
indigenous input including engineering. At the same time, in the US and
Europe, large-scale ammonia plants were developed using substantially
different technology. Four large ammonia/urea projects were undertaken
by the public sector. Each involved a 600 TPD ammonia plant based on the
newer technology that was now ava:Llable. Engineering was largely by FCI
with imports, including technology, based on available supplier credit
financing rather than an objective technical assessment of worldwide
process technology equipment and project management.  Each project took about
six years to construct, and none has experienced satisfactory commercial
operation.  Under normal conditions the four units together should have been
producing about one million TPY urea by 1972, thus filling most of the recent
import requirements. The program was later expanded to include two large
coal-based projects by FCI and these projects are also experiencing protracted
construction delays.
3.08      The mistakes made were not so much due to Indian-made equipment,
most of which, in fact, have operated well.  It was primarily a combination
of factors including inexperienced project management and engineering, weak
coordination between project sponsors and contractors, poor use of suppliers'
credits, and wrong choice of equipment at a time when technology was changing
rapidly. The goal seemed to be maximizing use of Indian engineering and
iquipment rather than maximizing i-ertilizer production.  Correcting the
problems associated with all six projects, with a total urea capacity of



- 9 -
about 2 million TPY is going to take a long time. IDA's Trombay Project
(Annex 1) includes assistance for four of these units.
3.09      Exploratory Bank Group missions in 1967 and in 1969 identified
many of the problems facing the industry, but within India the desire to
maximize local participation and ignore problems appeared to continue
unabated and clouded judgment. Compounding the poor performance record
of the public sector, implicit policy shifts by the Government reversed
the previous trend (para 3.05) and made private sector and foreign invest-
ment again very difficult. Prices were controlled at low profit levels and
investors were discouraged. No foreign company has made a significant invest-
ment in the Indian fertilizer industry since 1971 and no Indian private sector
company has been able to raise the required capital and also obtain required
GOI approvals. Also, efforts by IFC to develop further investments proved
unsuccessful during this period. However, three joint sector companies have
successfully implemented projects, and are now commercially operating.
3.10      IDA became involved in the Indian fertilizer industry in 1970 and
since it was impossible to identify a private sector project, the Associa-
tion concentrated on those projects of the public sector which were limited
to modernization/expansion of existing plant with external engineering.
During the Fourth Plan (1969-74), seven public sector projects were started,
including four assisted by IDA, which are scheduled for commercial production
during 1977-78. Each IDA project is aimed at removing production limitations
of the units involved as well as expanding capacity, although two are behind
schedule. The other three public sector projects are substantially behind
schedule, and include the two FCI coal-based projects.
B. Present Fertilizer Industry Situation
3.11      During 1975, the first year of the Fifth Plan, the public sector
emphasis continued with five additional projects being started, including
three by FCI and two by a newly formed company, National Fertilisers Lim-
ited (NFL). During the rest of the Fifth Plan, it is possible that three
to four additional public sector projects by FCI and NFL will be initiated.
At present only one joint sector project is underway (the Bank-assisted
IFFCO plant) and another is planned (GSFC Expansion). Possibly, two
private sector projects could be implemented but private (particularly
foreign) investment restrictions remain and capital costs have increased
so sharply that it is unlikely that a private company can raise sufficient
funds for a major project without significant financial support by GOI
(thereby indirectly becoming a joint sector project).
3.12      As shown in the following table, there are at present 16 major
fertilizer companies with 20 operating plants, plus 16 plants under con-
struction and five under planning:



- 10 -
Major Fertilizer Companies in India
Operating     P'lants Under     Plants Under Advanced
Companies       Plants        Construction        Stage of Planning
…_________ ___-- (Nos.) ----…---------
I.   Public Sector
1.  FCI            6              11 /a                   2
2.  Rourkela       1               -                      -
3.  FACT           2                1
4.  Neyveli        1               -
5.  Khetri         -                1
6.  NFL            -                2                     1
II.  Joint Sector
1.  GSFC           1                -                     1
2.  Madras         1               -                      -
3.  SPIC           1                -                     -
4.  Mangalore      1                -                     -
5.  IFFCO          2                1                     -
III. Private Sector
1.  IEL            1                 
2.  Zuari Agro    1                -
3.  Coromandel    1                -
4.  DCM            1                -
5.  Nagarjuna      -                                      1
16                 20              16                      5
/a   Including five new projects and six expansions of existing units.
The industry should have a total nutrient capacity of about 6.4 million
TPY by 1979 of which 55% will be in the public sector, 27% in the joint
sector, and 18% in the private sector (Annex 2-4). The total capacity will
include 5.1 million TPY of N and 1.3 million TPY of P.
3.13      In addition, there are a large number of smaller companies.  They
manufacture SSP or NPK and are involved in mixing, granulation and distribution
of fertilizer. 1While these firms are an important element of the fertilizer
sector in India, particularly on the distribution side, they contribute less
than 10% of the nutrient manufacturing capacity.  They generally have adequate
physical facilities. They operate reasonably well when supplied with adequate
primary fertilizer nutrients and ir Government policy does not unduly restrict
them in pricing, credit and distribution.
3.14      An increasingly importanl' factor, from about 1965, has been joint
sector ownership with Government equity, usually being held by State Gov-
ernments, plus cooperative and private shareholders. These companies have
been relatively efficient and through their public ownership have access to



the required capital for expansion. There are now five joint sector com-
panies in operation. Nevertheless, Government policy has continued to em-
phasize public sector expansion, at times at the cost of lower efficiency.
As mentioned previously, the heavy emphasis on public sector, excessive use
of unproved domestic engineering capability and overburdened management has
caused great difficulties in meeting production targets in the industry.
These faults have largely been recognized by now, and acceptable solutions
have been incorporated into recent projects.
3.15      The problems plaguing the industry cannot, however, entirely be
explained in a public versus private framework since age and size of plant
and feedstock are key factors (Annex 3-4). Furthermore the industry suffers
from a wqide variety of shortages that reflect the inability of the economy
to provide all needed inputs and infrastructures; principally shortages
in electrical power, raw materials, transportation systems and equipment
replacement.  Generally, when any operating unit, public or private, is
provided with the required inputs, it operates at a high production level.
Nevertheless, private and joint sector companies have usually implemented
projects with a competent, experienced foreign engineering company as project
manager.  The engineering company could make decisions on equipment choices
or design criteria in the best interest of the project. Public sector proj-
ects, on the other hand, usually implemented by public sector Indian engineer-
ing companies have been characterized by split and ill-defined responsibility
and the lack of rapid decision making and execution, thus stretching out
implementation and ending up with a late and expensive project with major
initial operating difficulties.
3.16      Although the difficulties may appear to be insurmountable, the
Indian fertilizer industry is now in a relatively good position compared
to that of other developing countries. Some domestic engineering capabil-
ity has been established (particularly when associated with experienced
foreign engineering firms and consultants), and Indian capacity in equip-
ment, construction and civil works has expanded greatly in the last few
years. Foreign exchange engineering costs are about half those of projects
in countries such as Indonesia, Philippines and Arabian Gulf countries, and
total foreign exchange requirements are only about 30-40% of a project's
cost compared to about 60-80% elsewhere. The equipment manufacturing
industry however, appears to be operating at full capacity and needs to
expand so that delivery times can be reduced.
3.17      The Government is considering reorganization of the public sector
fertilizer enterprises. Initially, this would probably include FCI and NFL
being reorganized into three or four regional companies. Rourkela, Neyveli
and FACT may be included but apparently at a later date. Reorganization
into smaller, more manageable groups would be highly desirable, particularly
if the new companies could operate more freely from Government day-to-day
interference. Also the units weak in management such as FACT and Rourkela
could well benefit. As regional and more autonomous companies, with stronger
emphasis on professional management and profitability, the public companies
could duplicate the success of the joint sector companies.



- 12 -
C. Feedstock and Transportation
3.18      India utilizes a wide range of raw materials in ammonia production
including natural gas, naphtha, fuel oil, coal, lignite, coke-oven gas and
electrolytic hydrogen (Annex 3-5). To the extent domestic gas is available
it is being used but, at present, there are only limited reserves in Assam
and Gujarat. The older plants are in the process of being converted to
either fuel oil or naphtha.  So generally in India the choice for new capac-
ity is limited to naphtha, fuel oil or coal. By 1979, of the estimated 5.1
million TPY of total N installed capacity, 37% would be based on naphtha,
31% on fuel oil, 13% on coal, 12% on gas and 7% on other sources.
3.19      As production expands, transportation will continue to be a problem
including ports, petroleum and raw material movement and product shipping.
The Government has agreed to complete by June 30, 1976, a study of the
fertilizer transportation system. The proposed committee on fertilizers
(para 2.16) would also include this aspect in its scope of activity.
IV. SECTOR FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
A.   Investment Program
4.01      The expansion of the Indian fertilizer industry is continuing and
from a present level of 3.6 million TPY, is expected to reach about 6.4
million TPY nutrient capacity by 1979 (Annex 2-4).
4.02      The ongoing projects and those proposed involve substantial capi-
tal investments as shown in Annexes 4-1 to 4-3 and summarized below:
Fertilizer Industry Investment Program in India (1975-1980)
(US$ Million)
Foreign Exchange  Local Currency  Total   %
1.  Modernization Programs                  105                155          260    6
2.  Ongoing Projects                        875              1,575        2,450   60
3.  Proposed New Projects                  495                 890        1,385   34
Total                          1,475              2,620        4,095  100
4.03   - About 18% of the above total investment cost has been disbursed as
of the end of 1975 and some 75% (US$3.1 billion) will be required during
1976-79. The financing sources are shown in Annex 4-4 and summarized below:



- 13 -
Financing Sources for the Fertilizer Investment Program
(US$ Million)
Disbursement Period
Fiscal Year (March 31)         Through 1975  1976-79    1980    Total    %
1. IBRD/IDA (including
this credit)                   45           395       -        440    11
2.  Other External Credits          180          320        -       500    12
3. Local Financial
Institutions                   -            200        -       200      5
4.  Internal Enterprise Funds        40          130        -        170     4
5.  GOI                             485        2,010       290    2,785    68
Total               750         3,055      290    4,095   100
4.04      The GOI contribution will account for more than two-thirds of the
total cost.  Most of the GOI funds will be needed during 1976-79, at an annual
average of about US$0.5 billion, and could account for about 15 to 20% of GOI's
annual developmental capital budget.
4.05      The investment program faces some risk.  The management and techni-
cal capabilities of the industry are rapidly being stretched with the addition
of more projects. The capital goods industry, still experiencing difficulties
in supplying fertilizer equipment on time, will be hard-pressed to keep up
with orders. And, most importantly, Government funding constraints could
further delay completion of several projects. Consequently, the possibility
of scaling down this industry investment program must be considered. The
Government has agreed to prepare a funding schedule for the projects under
implementation and for any new projects before proceeding with them and
will periodically consult with IDA regarding the financing and overall
progress of the expansion program of the fertilizer industry.
B.   Cost of Imports of Fertilizers and Raw Materials
4.06      India is projected to approach self-sufficiency in N by 1980 while
phosphate imports are expected to be maintained at about 200-400,000 TPY
and potash imports increased to about 800,000 TPY (all in nutrients). Import
costs including raw materials will average about US$900 million annually
from 1977 through 1981, on the assumption that ongoing projects are completed
as scheduled (Annex 4-5). Import costs will remain large primarily because
of increasing potash consumption and the high import content of phosphate
materials. Should the NPK ratio shift towards more P and K relative to N
as would be desirable agronomically, the cost of fertilizer imports would
still be higher.
4.07      The phosphatic fertilizer import cost estimates assume that by
1979 one-third of domestic production will be based on local phosphate
rock. However, currently developed mines can supply only a small fraction
of requirements. The Rajasthan area has additional phosphate deposits that
can be developed but, unfortunately, political problems between the state
and the central governments have delayed this high priority project for
several years.



- 14 -
V. PROJECT SCnPE
A. Project Components
5.01      While some of the problens limiting production in the Indian fer-
tilizer industry involve institutional and policy issues, many are physical
constraints such as raw material/utility limitations, and lack of sufficient
funds to replace worn equipment. &lso funds are often not available for
upgrading production facilities to rectify pcllution problems and diversify
production into industrial chemicals. Diversification is desirable since
industrial chemicals usually generate more profits than price-controlled
fertilizer.
5.02      The objective of the proposed credit is to assist in removing
these limitations and thereby raising production in the existing facili-
ties from a current industry-wide average level of 60% to about 85-90%
capacity utilization, 1] provide pollution ccntrol facilities, particu-
larly fluorine and ammonia effluent control, and sufficient technical
assistance to prepare and implement these programs properly. The project
will increase output by 253,000 TPY nutrient, or an average of 13% of nu-
trient capacity of the plants involved in the project.
5.03      Management and engineering limitations are to be reduced by col-
laboration between Indian and foreign firms. Also the projects are small
and the several beneficiaries have demonstrated that they can successfully
execute similar projects.  Time-consuming procedures for approval of licenses,
imports and fund allocations are eased for Bank Group projects and some im-
provements have been seen in other, notably NFL and joint sector, projects.
The project supports training programs including the training of personnel
outside India.
5.04      More fundamental policy issues, such as pricing policy, limita-
tions on corporate ownership and dividends, uhich result in part from the
continuing resource gap facing the country, cannot be solved in a short
period of time. A systematic apprDach to and treatment of these issues
will be included in the scope of responsibility of the proposed committee
on fertilizers (para 2.16 and Annex 2-7).
B.   Project Description
5.05      Project components were selected after surveying the needs of
the Indian fertilizer industry and reviewing with the Ministry of Petroleum
and Chemicals (MPC) to determine those sub-projeccts that have high priority,
would contribute substantially to improved capacity utilization, and were
ready for rapid implementation. The project components are discussed and
analyzed in detail in Annexes 5-1 to 5-9 and summarized below.
1/   Inclu'ing other modernization projects atlready underway.



- 15 -
1.   FCI (Public Sector)
5.06      Gorakhpur and Durgap ur Inplant Power Generators (US$44.2 million): -/
The Gorakhpur unit will install two turbo-generators of 12.5 MW each, and
Durgapur one 15 MW turbo-generator with related facilities for in-plant
power generation. This will reduce sharply the plants' dependence on
outside power supply which continues to be unreliable and for which no
solution is in sight considering the rapidly increasing need for electricity
in India.
5.07      Trombay Steam Generating Unit (US$12.9 million):  Trombay requires
considerable amounts of steam and so does the ongoing Trombay IV (nitrophos-
phate) expansion project and Trombay V (ammonia/urea) expansion which is at
an advanced stage of planning. Since the existing boilers are old and un-
reliable and need major repairs and considering Trombay's additional steam
needs, a 170-ton/hr boiler will be installed.
5.08      Ammonia Storage and Tank Wagons (US$20.5 million):  All FCI units
except Trombay (with 15,000 tons) have limited ammonia storage capacity.
Since operation of an ammonia plant and downstream units located elsewhere
cannot always be synchronized, FCI is planning to establish storage facil-
ities for ammonia at selected locations, and use tank wagons to transport
the product to different units experiencing ammonia shortages. Under the
proposed credit, four storage centers will be established with a total
capacity of 25,000 tons and 35 tank wagons (30-ton capacity each and FCI-
owned) to transport ammonia.
5.09      Pollution Control and Testing Equipment (US$1.4 million):  FCI
proposes to establish a Central Pollution Control Wing with necessary
equipment to advise its units on environmental protection aspects. Further,.
it wants to strengthen its Non-Destructive Testing Laboratory which serves not
only FCI but also other fertilizer units. With the increase in FCI units and
rising demand for service from outside units, it has become necessary to ac-
quire additional equipment for industrial vibration testing, advanced ultra-
sonic inspection, noise analysis, etc.
2.   Neyveli (Public Sector)
5.10      Conversion from Lignite to Fuel Oil Feedstock (US$19.5 million):
The Neyveli sub-project involves a change in ammonia feedstock, from lignite
to fuel oil, making it possible to raise capacity utilization from 35% to
about 90%. The conversion will enable the existing power plant at that
complex to utilize the lignite to generate more electricity. The power plant
can substitute five tons of lignite for each ton of fuel oil, and the ferti-
lizer plant will release almost 10 tons of lignite for each ton of fuel oil
consumed as feedstock after the conversion. At present the lignite mine pro-
vides barely 50% of the lignite requirements of the power plant, necessi-
tating the use of fuel oil for additional power generation. Mining capacity
1/   Figures in parenthesis are estimated total costs of sub-projects.



- 16 -
is being expanded but even afterward the ent:ire lignite production can still
be utilized by the power plant and the briquetting plant. The fuel oil gasi-
fication unit will be similar to that of FCI's Gorakhpur plant, and the con-
version will be implemented by FCI under a turn-key engineering contract.
3.   Rourkela (Public Sector)
5.11      Conversion from Coke Ov,n Gas to Naphtha Feedstock (US$26.1 million):
Rourkela produces calcium ammoniuin nitrate (CAN). At present 39% of the ammo-
nia synthesis gas requirement is supplied by a naphtha reforming unit installed
in 1971 and the remainder from colce oven gas produced in an adjacent steel
plant. However, the coke oven gas has been inadequate and CAN production has
been limited to 40-55%, of capacity.  A debottlenecking program involving the
coke oven gas unit is underway bul; the coke oven gas supply will provide at
most only 25% of the plant's requ;.rement.  The proposed project involves the
addition of a second 180 TPD naphtha reforming unit to produce sufficient raw
hydrogen to permit the factory to run at capacity. The raw hydrogen would be
processed in the existing purification section of the ammonia plant to pro-
duce the pure hydrogen required for ammonia synthesis.
4.   Madras (Joint Sector)
5.12      Modernization of Ammonia and Urea I'lants (US$1.7 million):  Madras
is an efficient company that has already undertaken a number of improvement
projects, including expansion of its NPK facilities. This credit is to
include two further modernization projects. The first involves moderniza-
tion of the ammonia plant to include computerized process control and oper-
ation mainly to reduce downtime and lower feedstock and steam consumption.
One of the Company's partners, Amoco, has successfully utilized computer
control in one of its ammonia plants in the U.S. The second project is
modernization of the urea plant to replace several obsolete pieces of
equipment with more modern, larger capacity units and thus increase urea
output by an estimated 13%.
5.   GSFC _(Joint Sector)
5.13      Modernization of Various Plants (US$20.6 million):  The phosphoric
acid plant at GSFC operates at a low rate due to design limitations. The
unit is being evaluated by a consu.Ltant to determine the remedies to upgrade
production to the original design specifications. The major difficulties
are in poor reaction of phosphate rock, lack of process control, and insuf-
ficient filtration capacity. The consultant, to be financed retroactively
under the technical assistance portion of the proposed credit, has already
started studies on these problems and will complete his work by December
1975.
e14      Fluorine recovery from the phosphoric acid plant, including con-
ersion to cryolite will be included in the project.  Phosphate rock con-
ains 2-4% fluorine, a substantial portion of which is a gaseous effluent
in the process. The fluorine will be recovered as fluosilicic acid and
mjen converted to cryolite, which is used in aluminum manufacture. The



- 17 -
design of this unit is not completed but it is estimated that 1,400 TPY of
cryolite will be recovered.
5.15      The existing ammonia plant at GSFC will also be modernized by
recovering argon and increase ammonia production by 63 TPD.
6.   SPIC _(Jint Sector)
5.16      Soda Ash/Ammonium Chloride Unit and Fluorine Recovery System
(US$46.2 million): The SPIC factory which includes the largest ammonia
plant in India (1,100 TPD), was commissioned recently, and has excess
ammonia for conversion to 65,000 TPY each of soda ash and ammonium
chloride. Soda ash is an industrial chemical in great demand in India.
Ammonium chloride would be utilized as a fertilizer in NPK mixes. SPIC
will sponsor a new company to own and operate the soda ash plant. The
new company will be evaluated by IDBI as part of its detailed appraisal
of this sub-project.
5.17      SPIC also plans to install a 1,500 TPY cryolite facility based on
fluorine recovery from its phosphoric acid plant. In addition, SPIC will
evaluate other modernization and pollution abatement requirements during
the first six months of commercial operation. The foreign exchange costs of
these studies will be funded out of the technical assistance portion of the
credit.
7.   Hindustan Petroleum (Joint Sector)
5.18      Refinery Debottlenecking (US$25.9 million): HPCL, a refinery in
Bombay owned by GOI, has a capacity of 3.5 million TPY, and was originally
built with the idea of expanding to 6.0 million TPY. Thus the 2.5 million
TPY project expansion is relatively inexpensive. The expanded refinery
(plus the adjacent Burmah Shell refinery) would be sufficient to process
the forecast production from offshore reserves near Bombay, and have suffi-
cient conversion capacity to assure feedstock to Trombay, Zuari Agro, and
the new fuel oil based ammonia plants in North India (although transport to
the North would require additional tank cars). The project itself includes
the reactivation of idle equipment, addition of some new equipment, and the
expansion of utilities.
8.   Coromandel (Private Sector)
5.19      Power Generation and Fluorine Recovery (US$8.5 million):   As with
other fertilizer plants in India, unreliability of power supply has been the
major problem for Coromandel in the last years. Furthermore, in March 1975,
the Electricity Board imposed a power-cut of 20% on the factory. The installa-
tion of a captive power generation unit is the best way to overcome this prob-
lem and to assure a continuing high production rate in the future. This
sub-project includes a 45 TPH boiler and a 5 MW turbogenerator. It is
anticipated that a gain of 29,500 TPY NPK would result.



-- 16 -
5. 20     Coromandel is also planning to install a 3,800 TPY aluminum fluoride
plant, which will recover fluorine from its phosphioric acid plant and there-
fore, help eliminate a major pollution hazardl for the environment.  Aluminum
fluoride is also used in aluminum manufactures.
9.   Zuari Agyro (Private Sector)
5.21      Ammonia Plant Modernization and Po:Llution Control (US$10.2 million):
This factory, with a capacity 280,000 TPY of urea began production in 1974.
A complex fertilizer (28:28:0) plant, based on imported phosphoric acid, has
operated intermittently since February 1975 (lue to lack of acid as well as
limited availability of ammonia. The factory discharges two effluent streams
that have allegedly caused problems in the environment. One effluent,
containing arsenic, has already been removed, by converting the process
within the ammonia plant so that arsenic is no longer used. The second
effluent containing some diluted quantities of ammonia and urea from the
urea plant, will be recycled in a recovery urit that will be financed from
the proposed credit. The effluent will be minimized by installing a cooling
tower and recycling water. The overflow fromi the cooling tower will be
processed to remove the contained nitrogen chemicals down to less than 50
ppm.  The nitrogen will be recover-ad as ammonia, but the amount is too small
to affect the plant's profitability.
5.22      A second component at Zuari is a modernization scheme of the am-
monia unit. The factory is about 10% short of its ammonia requirements if
both urea and DAP plants run at full capacity.  The ammonia plant capacity
can be increased by 10% by making only a few changes in some of the equip-
ment. Zuari Agro plans to undertake a detailed feasibility study with the
designer of the ammonia plant, Toyo Engineering (Japan), to determine the
exact scope of the modernization project. The study, which would be fi-
nanced from the proposed credit, is; expected to be completed by January
1976.
10.   Technical Assistance
5.23      Consultants,_Training anc Studies (US$1.0 million):  The technical
and engineering studies related to the sub-projects mentioned and described
above are expected to require about US$0.5 miLlion in foreign exchange. In
addition some US$0.5 million is prcposed to finance the fertilizer demand
forecast and related marketing studies referred to in para 2.06.
C.   Project Implementation and Adninistration
5.24      Each individual company, whether in the public, joint or private
sector, will execute their respective sub-projects. There will be two
Project Agreements, one with FCI and another with the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of India (IDBI) to which the Bank Group has previously lent.
Besides tne obli-ations to carry out its own sub-projects, FCI, under its
Project Agreement, is authorized to implement the two other sub-projects
in the public sector, Neyveli and Rourkela, fcr which FCI will be the
engineering contractor. The Project Agreement with IDBI is patterned after



- 19 -
and includes the standard covenants applicable to DFC sub-loans and speci-
fies GSFC's, HPCL's, Zuari's and SPIC's obligations for implementing their
respective sub-projects in an efficient and timely manner. These covenants
will in turn be incorporated into the subsidiary loan agreements between
IDBI and respective firms. IDBI will appraise and have the prime responsi-
bility for supervising its sub-projects. Project implementation schedules
of all sub-projects will be proposed and updated as necessary by MPC as part
of their overall role of coordination of the project.
5.25      With regard to two companies (Madras in the joint sector and
Coromandel in the private sector) which will purchase the foreign exchange
with rupee funds, the Credit Agreement with the Government specifies the
obligation of those companies to implement their sub-projects efficiently
including procurement arrangements. IDA will directly supervise these sub-
projects.
5.26      The Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals (MPC) will coordinate
project implementation on the Indian side. This would include obtaining
necessary Government approvals for sub-projects; working with the Depart-
ment of Economic Affairs (DEA) and with IDBI on IDA procurement and dis-
bursement matters; and assisting IDA in project supervision. MPC will
receive requests for technical assistance funds covering plant moderniza-
tion schemes and forward the requests for IDA approval. MPC will advertise
the project in the Indian Press, and inform all embassies in New Delhi of
the Bank member countries and Switzerland. In addition, vendor lists from
all recent Indian fertilizer projects, will be made available to all project
sponsors so that each will have a list from which to prequalify a reasonable
number of international bidders. IDA will review the prequalified bidders'
list in all instances.
5.27      The Bank Group's project supervision activity in the Indian fer-
tilizer industry is already large, and will become even larger with the
proposed credit. While three of the six previous Bank/IDA fertilizer proj-
ects are expected to be completed within the next year, the number of sub-
projects in the proposed credit will offset this factor and will require
more supervision effort, particularly over the next two years. However,
the involvement of the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals and IDBI should
make the task less burdensome than would otherwise be the case.
VI. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Capital Costs
6.01      The total financing required is estimated at Rs 1,862 million
(US$239 million), including Rs 721 million (US$92 million) in foreign ex-
change. The base cost estimates are based on prices prevailing in early
calendar 1975. The estimates are summarized below. Cost estimates by
type of sub-project and by company are shown in Annexes 6-1 and 6-2. The
estimates include 10% physical contingency and 20% price escalation (Annex
6-3).



- 20 -
Summary of Capital Cost:s
in Rs Million                in US$ Million
Foreign    Local             Foreign    Local
Exchange   Currncg  Total  Exchange   Currency Total  %
1. Equipment, Materials
& Spares (Delivered)   468           381     849      60.0       48.9   108.9  66
2. Duties                    -          151      151      -         19.3    19.3  12
3. Licenses, Engineering
& Supervision             41          70      111      5.3        8.9    14.2   9
4. Civil Work, Erection
& Commissioning           21         151      172      2.7       19.4    22.1  13
5. Base Cost Estimate       530         753   1,283       68.0      96.5   164.5 100
6. Physical Contingency    52            76      128       6.7       9.8    16.5  10
7. Price Escalation         105         150      255      13.4      19.2    32.6  20
8. Installed Cost           687         979   1,666      88.1      125.5   213.6 130
9. Additional Working
Capital                   30          51      81       3.8        6.6    10.4
10. Technical Assistance       4           4        8      0.5        0.5      1.0
11. Interest During
Construction              -          107      107      -         13.7    13.7
Total Financing                            /a/
Required                 7211a    1 141   1 862       92.*4     146.3   238.7
Required         ~~____                          __
/a   Includes Rs 148 million (US$19 million) ofE indirect foreign exchange.
6.02      About 82% of the project cost will be used to increase production
by expanding capacity, improving process efficiLency and supplying power.
Another 11% of the cost will be for raising the refinery capacity of HPCL
and the remaining 7% will be utilized for reducing pollution and for pro-
viding technical assistance.
6.03      The sub-projects will take advantage of existing infrastructure
and complementary equipment, thereby requiring substantially lower capital
costs relative to greenfield installations. Th,e total capital cost (exclud-
ing the cost of industrial chemicals and the refinery expansion) per annual
ton of additional nutrient output is about US$650 compared to US$1,050 in
a new fuel oil based ammonia/urea fertilizer plant in India.
B.   Financing Plan and Onlending Arrangements
6.04      An IDA Credit of US$105 million is proposed to cover the foreign
exchange cost (excluding working capital) and a portion of local costs. The
credit will be allocated by company as follows:



- 21 -
Credit Allocation
Initial Allocation    Expected Final
for Credit Documents    Allocation
US$                    US$
Million          %     Million       %
1.   FCI                             36.0              34    38.5         37
2.   Neyveli Lignite Corp.            11.0             10    12.0         11
3.   Hindustan Steel Corp.            14.5             14    15.5         15
(Rourkela)
4.   IDBI (As Lending Channel)
a.   GSFC                        8.0               8     9.0          9
b.   SPIC                       13.0              12    14.0         13
C.   HPCL                        3.0              3      4.0          4
d.   Zuari                       4.0              4      6.0          5
5.   Coromandel                        3.0              3     4.0          4
6.   Madras                            1.0              1      1.0          1
7.   Technical Assistance              1.0              1     1.0          1
8.   Unallocated                     10.5              10      -          _
Total IDA Credit          105.0            100   105.0        100
6.05      The IDA funds allocated for FCI will be onlent by GOI to FCI at
10.25%  annual interest and for 15 years including four years of grace.  The
credit proceeds for the Neyveli and Rourkela sub-projects will be invested
by GOI as equity in these two firms.  The funds allocated to IDBI (Annex 6-4)
will be lent to IDBI by the Government at 8.5% annual interest and for 15
years including four years grace. IDBI will onlend at its standard interest
rate but not less than 10.25% for a maximum of 15 years including up to four
years of grace. The size of the sub-projects to be carried out through IDBI
is in line with IDBI's de facto exposure limit; to date, IDBI's largest loan
has been Rs 220 million (US$27.5 million), or 27% of its own net worth. The
remaining portion of the credit will be purchased by Coromandel and Madras
against cash payment of rupees or used by the Government as technical assis-
tance funds.
6.06      The expected financing plan for the total funds requirement of the
project is shown below, with US$104.5 million of the IDA Credit to be util-
ized as project funds and US$0.5 million as grant funds:



2 22 -
Financing Plan
R PIs Million--------------US$ Million…
Foreign   Local               Foreign   Local
Exchange  Currency  Total  Exchange  Currency    Total                 %
1. Equity:                                                                        /a
a. GOI         129        535         664    16.5      68.6       85.1  (27.5)-    36
b. Enterprises
(private/
joint)      57        315        372      7.3      40.4      47.7  ( 5.0)       20
2. Long-Term
Loans:
a. Local Fi-
nancial
Institu-
tions       223        141        364    28.6       18.1      46.7  (33.0)       20
b. GOl         312         146        458    40.0       18.7      58.7  (39.0)       24
3. Grant -
G0I (IDA)       -            4          4    _-          0.5       0.5  ( 0.5)       -
Total        721      1,141      1,862    92.4      146.3    238.7 (105.0)       100
/a   Numbers within parentheses represent IDA funds.
6.07       The private and joint sector firms' equity contributions are based
on Coromandel and Madras funding the entire cost of their sub-projects with.
their own funds; GSFC financing 55% of the cost of its sub-projects with
internal resources; and SPIC and Zuari providing 40% of the cost of their
respective sub-projects with equity investments. All equity for the public
sector firms will be provided by GOI since the enterprises are not expected
to have sufficient internally generated funds., As Neyveli and Hindustan Steel
(Rourkela) are weak financially, GOI will provide all funds to them as equity.
GOI will finance about 50% of the costs of FCI sub-projects as equity and
provide loan funds to HPCL to cover the local currency costs of its sub-
project.
6.08       Coromandel, Madras, Zuari Agro and GSFC are in good financial posi-
tion to provide the necessary internal resources to carry out their sub-proj-
ects.  SPIC started commercial production early in July 1975 and is not yet
in a comparable financial position to the other four firms, but should be
able to generate the required equity from its own resources and from the
Tamil Nadu State Government, which owns 26% of SPIC. The Government has
agreed to provide, in addition to the funds indicated in the above financ-
ing plan, any additional funds that might be needed to complete the project.
6.09       The foreign exchange risks for the IDA funds will be borne by GOI.



- 23 -
C. Procurement and Disbursement
6.10      All equipment and materials to be financed by the IDA credit will
be procured from prequalified suppliers in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines. International competitive bidding (ICB) will be used except for
US$20 million to be procured by international shopping. The latter category
includes critical or proprietary items, duplicate items, or items costing
US$100,000 or less. Local suppliers, for purposes of bid evaluation, will
receive a preference of 15% or the amount of the customs duty, whichever is
lower. The procurement and disbursement of the portion being channelled
through IDBI will also follow Bank Group ICB procedures.
6.11      For expenditures eligible for IDA financing, disbursements would
cover 100% of the CIF cost of services, equipment, materials and spares
(but excluding duties); 100% of the ex-factory cost of equipment supplied
by local firms winning in international competition (excluding local taxes);
and 100% of the cost of technical assistance.  Some sub-projects are already
underway for which retroactive financing, up to a maximum of US$6 million,
is proposed to assist in rapid completion of these projects. Disbursement
(Annex 6-5) is expected to be completed in about three years.
VII. FINANCIAL MNALYSIS
A. Operating Costs and Benefits
7.01      All sub-projects are expected to be completed by 1979. Projected
1979 prices and operating costs, expressed in constant calendar 1975 rupees
(dollars), are used for the financial and economic analyses of each of the
sub-projects. Annex 7-1 contains the principal assumptions. For petroleum
feedstock, the projected domestic price has been calculated on the basis
of a Government formula of making fuel oil-based and naphtha-based ammonia
plants equally viable in financial terms. On this basis, naphtha at Rs 835
(US$107) per ton would cost 1.5 times more than fuel oil. Based on these
feedstock prices and estimated urea prices (below), a new ammonia/urea
factory will earn about 15,% return on investment.
7.02      The ex-factory urea price is projected to increase slightly in real
terms over the next four years varying from Rs 1,100/ ton in 1975 to Rs 1,150
per ton (in constant calendar 1975 rupees) by 1979. The increase in ex-fac-
tory prices, however, is not projected to lead to higher retail prices. As
domestic production increases and imports of urea decrease, the import equal-
ization lev  is assumed to be phased out, and the equivalent amount passed on
to the manufacturer and the distributors, leaving the retail prices in 1979
at about the same level as in 1976 in current terms (Rs 1,850/ton of urea).
The assumed change in urea ex-factory price is modest and even though the
international price of urea is projected to decline from last year's level,
the ex-factory price in 1979 would still be about 20% lower than the ex-
pected c.i.f. price. Phosphatic fertilizer ex-factory prices are projected



- 24 -
to decline in real terms, from Rs 4,800/ton of P 205 in 1976 to about Rs 3,800/
ton by 1979, as a result of the projected decreases in international prices
for phosphate rock. Ex-factory phosphatic fertilizer prices in India are
assumed to decline at a slower rate than international prices. As a result,
the 1979 local price will be higher, by about 25%, than the c.i.f. price of
phosphatic products.  Ex-factory prices of complex (NPK) fertilizers in India,
as a consequence of the downward movement of phosphatic fertilizer prices and
upward movement of nitrogenous and potassic fertilizer prices, are projected
to stay at about 1976 levels, in real terms.
7.03      Only incremental costs and benefits are considered in both the
financial and the economic analyses of the project. The beneficial environ-
mental impact of the four anti-polLution projects are not taken into consid-
eration. The Zuari anti-pollution project is mandatory and is justified as
the least cost solution. For the three fluorine recovery sub-projects, the
value of the recovered industrial chemicals is used to calculate the respec-
tive rates of return and justify each of the investments. The benefits from
the ammonia tankwagons and storage facilities for FCI are based on the assump-
tion that on average, some 150 TPD of imported ammonia as well as surplus
production from certain factories would be moved for use in ammonia-deficit
plants. Similarly, the incremental, benefits from the internal power genera-
tion sub-projects and the Trombay boiler unit are determined on the basis of
the output that would be lost if these sub-projects were not implemented.
In all, 17 out of 20 sub-projects have quantifiable benefits, in terms of
additional output or reduction in raw material usage or both.
7.04      The project will add 253,000 TPY of nutrients (Annex 7-2) (N and
P0 5), save 31,210 TPY of raw materials and provide 73,600 TPY of industrial
ciemicals. The net incremental firnancial benefit is Rs 550 million (US$71
million) annually before income taxes (Annex 7-3).  This amount represents 30%
of the total project cost leading to an average payback period of about
3-1/2 years. The public sector firms, which are in poor financial position
at present, will see a significant improvemenit in their earning power since
about Rs 230 million (US$29 million) equivalent will be added to their annual
cash flow as a result of the project.
B. Financial Rate of Return
7.05      The financial rate of return for the 17 sub-projects (for which
such returns can be quantified) range from 14% to over 60% as shown in
Annex 7-4. Taking the costs and benefits streams of these projects together
yields a composite financial return for the whole project of 26%.  This
return is high, primarily because cf the incremental nature of the sub-
projects that takes advantage of existing organization, infrastructure and
complementary equipment.
C. Major Risks
7.06      Overall, the proposed project does not face major risks.  With
tlhe exception of Neyveli and Rourkela, most of the sub-project sponsors



- 25 -
have recent experience in successfully implementing projects and operating
factories. Several firms will also be assisted by foreign technical con-
sultants in determining the exact scope and implementing the modernization
schemes. The technology involved in the sub-projects is all commercially
proven. The financial position of the private and the joint sector firms
are also good, ensuring the availability of the necessary equity funds for
the project. However, the fertilizer industry itself faces some potential
major commercial problems such as feedstock supply, input and output price
levels and marketing which have already been discussed (paras 2.17 to 2.19,
and 3.18). Furthermore, FCI has several ongoing projects that are behind
schedule and over budget. There is a likelihood of still further delays
and cost overruns in the ongoing projects; this poses a major risk to FCI
and a burden on the Government and the economy. In such an event, the
financial gains expected from the proposed project could be offset.
7.07      To ensure that financing constraints do not become a source of
risk to the project and the industry as a whole, agreements were obtained
from GOI and the beneficiary firms on the following: (i) GOI, IDBI and
the beneficiary enterprises will provide for each of the sub-projects the
equity and loan funds in addition to the IDA credit as presented in the
proposed financing plans in paras 6.06 to 6.08; (ii) GOI will make avail-
able the necessary financing for these sub-projects (para 6.08); (iii)
GOI will provide to FCI and other fertilizer firms the necessary funds to
complete without delay their other ongoing projects and any other new project
that may be started (para 4.05); (iv) GOI will maintain FCI in a sound
financial position, and (v) GOI will cause Neyveli and Hindustan Steel to
(a) keep separate financial accounts for their respective fertilizer units
and (b) maintain a current ratio of at least 1.1 to 1 at all times for their
respective fertilizer units.
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Economic Rate of Return
8.01      Assumptions for the economic return calculations are given in
Annex 7-1. The individual economic rates of return range from 18% to over
60% (Annex 7-4). The composite economic rate of return for the project as
a whole is 32%. The economic value of the additional fertilizer output
alone is about US$117 million annually. The net economic benefits from
tlhe project are estimated at US$84 million annually (Annex 8). About 20%
of the project cost is for in-plant power generation. While there are
economies of scale in public power generation, power shortages and voltage
fluctuations are expected to continue for some time. These shortages and
fluctuations are harmful to fertilizer equipment and reduce capacity util-
ization (Annex 5-8). Although in-plant power units are not the optimal
long-term solution, the fact that the steam requirements for power genera-
tion are integrated with the overall steam production of a fertilizer plant
reduces the actual cost of in-plant power generation. Since capacity utili-
zation is also increased, this makes in-plant power generation economically
viable.



- 26 -
B.   World Fertilizer Supply and Prices
8.02      The speed with which the world energy and the fertilizer supply
situations deteriorated into crisis proportions during 1974 and 1975 prompted
many governments to focus their attention on reduced import reliance for
essential commodities.  The fertilizer scarcity and resulting high prices
have attracted worldwide attention and in bot,l developing and developed
countries, there has been a sharp increase in the number of fertilizer fac-
tories being constructed.  Fertilizer supply should be in better balance
with demand by the end of this decade witi a consequent substantial decline
forecast for most nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer prices. The price of
urea has declined from about US$350-400/ton (f.o.b.) last year to a current
price of about US$110-140/ton, due to a temporary oversupply. Long range
prices are projected at US$160/ton in 1979 (in constant 1975 dollars).
8.03      Notwithstanding the anticipated easing of the supply and a conse-
quential decrease in  internationa&  fertilizer prices, there are several
factors that justify capital investments for increasing domestic fertilizer
production in India, either by modernizing or expanding existing plants or
by building new factories. Firstly, even with the expected lowering of in-
ternational fertilizer prices, the economic return on capacity additions in
India is still expected to be satisfactory. Secondly any shortage in the
international market even temporary, has a major adverse effect on the
balance of payments of countries whio rely on imports to fill a large portion
of their requirements. During 1972 to 1975, 'India depended on imports for
45 to 50% of fertilizer nutrient consumption. When prices almost tripled
between 1974 and 1976, the fertiliz,er import 'bill jumped from US$355 million
in 1974 to an estimated US$1,090 million in 1976 (Annex 4-5). Such large
and unexpected drains on the scarce foreign exchange resources of a country
creates strains on the economy and disrupts economic development programs.
Considering the cyclical nature of the fertilizer industry, such disruption
nay happen again unless steps are taken now to reduce major dependence on
imports.
IX. AGREEMENTS
9.01      Assurances and agreements; were obtained from the Government, FCI
and IDBI as follows:
From the Government that:
(i)  A study will be undertaken, in consultation with IDA, of the
effective demand for fertilizer, including a 10-year forecast
to be completed by March 31, 1977; and a mechanism will be
set up to update this forecast annually (para. 2.06);
(ii)  A committee on fertilizers will be established to coordinate all
aspects of the sector including production, imports, distri-
bution and consumption (para. 2.16);



- 27 -
(iii)  A study will be undertaken of the raw material/products
transportation situation, to be completed by June 30, 1976,
and its findings, in consultation with IDA, will be imple-
mented on a priority basis (para. 3.19);
(iv)  Adequate financing will be provided on a schedule to be
agreed for all ongoing and new projects (para 4.05);
(v)  Subsidiary agreements satisfactory to IDA will be obtained
from all beneficiaries that their respective sub-projects
will be implemented and completed in an efficient and timely
manner, equipment will be procured in accordance with IDA
Guidelines, and that IDA will be permitted to supervise the
implementation of each of the sub-projects (paras 5.24 to
5.27 and 6.08);
(vi)  The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be passed on to the
several beneficiaries on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA including (a) to FCI at 10.25% interest per annum for
15 years including 4 years of grace; (b) to IDBI at 8.5%
interest per annum for 15 years including 4 years of grace
(para. 6.05);
(vii)  Any overrun funds will be provided, if and when needed and in
a form satisfactory to the Association, to assure the timely
completion of each of the sub-projects (para 6.08);
(viii)  FCI will be maintained in a sound financial position (para
7.07); and
(ix)  Neyveli and Hindustan Steel will (a) keep separate financial
accounts for their respective fertilizer units and (b) main-
tain a current ratio of at least 1.1:1 at all times for their
respective fertilizer units (para 7.07).
From FCI that:
(i) It will obtain sub-contracts, subject to IDA approval,
for the projects to be executed for Neyveli and Rourkela
(paras. 5.10, 5.11 and 5.24);
(ii)  Its sub-projects will be adequately financed and imple-
mented and completed in an efficient manner and that
procurement will proceed in accordance with IDA guide-
lines (paras. 5.24, 6.10 and 7.07);



- 28 -
From IDBI that:
(i)  Its sub-projects will be adequately financed and implemented
and completed in an efficient and timely manner and that
procurement will proceed in accordance with IDA guidelines
(paras 5.24 and 7.07);
(ii)  Funds will be on-lent for at least 10.25% per annum for periods
up to 15 years including at most 4 years grace (6.05).
9.02      Based on the above agreerments, the project represents a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit of US$105 riillion.
Industrial Projects Department
November, 1975



INDIA  FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT                                                        ANNEX 1
WORLD BAiNK GROUP FERTILIZER PROJECTS IN INDIA
Project Capacity
Cost, $ Million          000 TPY Nutrient
Bank Group                                     Commissioning              l/Bank Group
Company              Project        Financing      Report No.      Date                Date        Total Costi-  Financing      N         P205
1.  Indian Explosives
Ltd. (IEL)            Kanpur          IFC                       April 13, 1967         1970             82            11.5      207         -
2.  Zuari Agro Chemicals  Goa               IFC           IFC/P-56   March 17, 1969         1973              75           18.9       170         30
3.  FACT                   Cochin II        IDA          PI-8        May 14, 1971           1976              70           20.0        47        115
4.  FCI                    Gorakhpur        IDA           PI-12a     November 22, 1971    1976                23           10.0        51         -
5.  FCI                    Nangal           IDA          46-IN       January 2, 1973        1976             115           58.0       152         -
6.  FCI                    Trombay IV      IDA           448-IN      May 20, 1974           1977              81           50.0 21    75          75
7.  FCI                    Sindri           IDA          569-IN      November 11, 1974    1978               188           91.0       145         -
8.  IFFCO                  Phulpur          IBRD         591-IN      December 9, 1974       1978            221           109.0       228         -
855          368.4    1075          220
1 Total cost from appraisal renorta
j Inclutdes $17 million for plant, operations improv0ment program.
Industrial Projects Departmpnt,
July 197S



ANNEX 2-1
INDIA: FERTILIEZER INDUSIRY CREDIT
AGRICULTUALL DEVELOPMENT
1.       The role of fertilizers as an important input needed to boost
agricultural production has been established. Combined with water from
irrigation and rainfall, high-yielding seed varieties, and modern farm
practices, fertilizers help achievre increased yield per unit of land area.
2.       About 65% of fertilizers in India is consumed by foodgrains.  The
current high proportion of fertilizer use on foodgrains reflects the high
priority given by the Government to iniereased foodgrain production and the
allocation policy to achieve that objective. However, fertilizer use on
cash crops may increase depending on the increased fertilizer availability
and the relative prices of foodgrains and cash crops.
3.       Nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P205 or P) and potash (2° or K) are
the three principal nutrients used. for balanced fertilization. During the
Fourth Five-Year Plan (1968/69 - 1973/74), fertilizer consumption in India
increased at an annual rate of about 10% for N as we]l as P and 15% for K
compared to the Plan targets of 2-3%, 29% and 42% respectively for N, P and K.
The consumption in 1973/74, the final year of" the Fourth Plan, was 1,835,000
tons of N; 634,000 tons of P; and 31L4,000 ons of K.  The consumption in
197h/75, first year of the Fifth PLan, was static for N, and declined
considerably for P. But, in the case of K, the consumption increased
following a drop the previous year. The reasons for the poor achievement
in fertilizer consumption, especiaLly during the last three years
(1972/73 - 1974/75) is traceable to limited availability, rising prices,
and the heavy dependence of Tndian agricultural fortunes on the weather.
4.       The Fourth Plan started off reasonably well thanks to good monsoons
and record harvests in 1969/70 and 1970/71.  In those years, economic growth
was not far off the average annual 5.7% growth targets of the Fourth Plan.
But weather is a precarious basis for sustained development and in years of
disappointing weather, there have been no alternative source of comparable
economic drive to keep up the momentum of development. Within the vast
expanse and wide fluctuations of Indian agriculture, the stabilizing forces
of technological advancement and irrigation are still relatively small. The
turn of the weather for the worse in 1971/72, the widespread drought conditions
of 1972/73 and poor rains and unusual cold during the winter of 1973/74 deflated
much of the economic drive toward Fourth Plan objectives.  As a result,



AiNIEX 2-1
Page 2
achievement on the food front was only 103.6 million tons compared to the
Fourth Plan target of ll million tons.  The following table shows the trend
of foodgrain              achievements during the last decade when  increased
attention was given to the production of high-yielding varieties (HYV) which
are responsive to high doses of fertilizers combined with irrigation and
other inputs:
Foodgrain Production
(Million tons)
Total
Fiscal Year        Wheat           Rice            Other        Foodgrains
1964/65          12.3            39.3            37.8               89.h
1965/66          10.h            30.6            31.4               72.4
1966/67          11.4            30.4            32.h               74.2
1967/68          16.5            37.6            41.0               95.1
1968/69          18.7            39.8            35.5               94.0
1969/70          20.1            40.h            39.0              99.5
1970/71          23.8            h2.2            42.4             108.h
1971/72          26.4            h3.1            35.7             105.2
1972/73          24.7            39.2            33.1              97.0
1973/74          22.1            h3.7            37.8             103.6
1974/75 (est.)   27.0            hl.o            36.0             104.0
5.       The above table shows that since the beginning of the HYV program in
1966/67, foodgrain production has increased significantly, reaching the peak
of 108.4 million tons in 1970/71. But the trend of production has been
erratic mainly because of vagaries of nature. However, the production of
wheat and rice both maintained a continuous increase during 1966/67 - 1971/72.
This is partly because of the impact of inputs like fertilizers and irrigation
which are concentrated on these two crops. However, their production either
declined or increased marginally during the next two years when acute fertilizer
shortages were experienced in the country.
6.       During the last decade, the yield per ha of wheat and rice increased
as follows:



ANNEX 2-1
Page 3
Yield per Hectare_
(kg/ha)
Wheat           Rice
196L/65                913          1,078
1965/66                827            862
1966/67                887            863
1967/68              1,103          1,032
1968/69              1,169          1,076
1969/70              1,209          1,073
1970/71              1,307          1,123
1971/72              1,380          1,41
1972/73              1,271          1,070
1973/74              1,158          1,151
1978/79 (target)    1,727           1,350
7.       Though               yields have increased especially since 1966/67,
they are still low by international standards as shown below:
Comparison of Per Hectare Yields (1971/72)
(kg/ha)
Wheat       Paddy (unhusked rice)
India          1,380        1,605
us             2,196        5,250
USSR           1,1467       3, 391
UK              4.,224       4*
Egypt          3,102        5,334
Japan            *          5,1347
*   Not a significant producer.
8.   .  The above table shows that the per hectare yield for wheat in
India is only 33% of that in the U. K., and of rice is only 27% of that in
Japan.
9.       Foodgrain Production Prospects:    The Fifth Plan target for food-
grain production is 1140 million by 1978/79. This was based on the anticipated
achievement of 114 million tons at the end of the Fourth Plan in 1973/74.  But
the actual production in 1973/74 (a drought year) was only 103.6 million tons
and the 1978/79 forecast has beer decreased to 123 million tons.



AN1EX 2-1
Page 4
10.      Food Imports:   Gross food imports during 1950-60 averaged nearly 3
million tons a year. In the following decade, they averaged nearly 5.8 million
tons a year.  The following table shows               food imports during the
Fourth Plan period:
Gross Food Imports
(Million Tons)
1969/70            3.55
1970/71            2.01
1971/72            o.46
1972/73            3.61
1973/7h            h.78
11.     In 1971/72, India was close to self-sufficiency in food.  However,
during the next two years, mainly because or droughts, imports increased con-
siderably. However, the import need even in those two bad years was hardly 5%
of the total production. As a matter of fact, in only one year since 1950 has
India's imports exceeded 5% of its annual production.
12.      Increase in Cropped Area:   The scope for increasing the net area
sown is limited. During 1966/67 - 1970/71, it increased by about 1 million
ha a year, reaching a total of 141.2 million ha by 1970/71            . However,
the total cropped area has been expanding at a faster pace mainly because of
the expansion of the area sown more than once. During 1966/67-1970/71, the
multiple cropped area increased from 19.5 million ha to 26.3 million ha and
the total cropped area expanded from 156.6 million ha to 167.4 million ha.
13.      In 1973/7h, the total cropped area was 169.1 million ha of which
nearly 126.3 million ha (75%) were under foodgrains. Rice and wheat, two
major foodgrains grown, accounted for 23% and 11.5% respectively of the total
cropped area. During the Fifth Plan period, the area under rice is projected
by the Bank to increase from 38 million ha to 40 million ha and the area under
wheat, from 19.1 million ha to 22 million ha. The area under all foodgrains
is expected to expand during thesame period by about 7 million ha to 133 million,
accounting for about 75% of the total cropped area projected for 1978/79.
1h.      Irrigated Area:   In 1971/72, the latest year for which detailed
irrigation data is available, the gross irrigated area was 38.8 million ha
of which 30.7 million ha (nearly 80% of the total) was under food-
grains. Among foodgrains, rice accounted for 14.7 million ha (38%) and wheat
for 10.3 million ha (26%); together, those crops accounted for nearly two-



ANNEX 2-1
Page 5
thirds of the  gross irrigated area.  The gross irrigated area is proiected
to increase from L1.6 million ha to 5L.3 million ha during the Fifth Plan.
Of this 12.7 million ha increasez in irrigated area, 8.9 million ha is expected
to come under foodgrains.
15.      According to the 1971/72 data, among Indian States Uttar Pradesh
has the largest area under irrigation (22% of the total) followed by Punjab,
Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. These four states account for slightly more
than half of the total irrigated areas as shown below:
Statewise Irrigated Area (1971/72)
Area Irrigated-           % of Total
(m. ha)
Uttar Pradesh                           8.36                     21.5
Punjab                                  4.38                     11.3
Andhra Pradesh                          3.79                      9.8
Tamil Nadu                              3.53                      9.1
Bihar                                   2.79                      7.2
Rajasthan                               2.44                      6.3
Haryana                                 2.28                      5.9
Madhya Pradesh                          1.71                      4.4
Origsa                                   1.62                     4.2
Karnataka                               1.60                      4.1
Maharashtra                             1.57                      4.0
West Bengal                             1.54                      3.9
Gujarat                                 1.31                      3.4
Others                                  1.92                      4.9
38.84                   100.0
SOURCE: Estimates of Area and Production of Principal Crops in India 1973/74,
Directorate of Economics & Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation, 1975.
i*      .High-Yielding Varieties Program:   The corner stone of the new
agricultural strategy started in 1966767 is the spread of the new high-yieldin4
varieties of rice, wheat, maize (aorn), jowar (sorghum) and bajra (millet).
At the beginning of the Fourth Plan in 1968/69, HYV program had spread to 9.2
million ha. During the Fourth Plan, the HYV program target was to cover an
additional 15.8 million ha and this target is reported to have been reached. The
total area covered by the program by the end of the Plan was 25 million ha,
accounting for roughly one-fifth of the area under foodgrains. The HYV area is
exuected to increase further to aDout 36 million ha by 1978/79.



ANNEX 2-1
Page 6
17.      The mere achievement of the area target for HYV cereals is, however,
no matter for satisfaction unless it is accompanied by equivalent production
increases. This has not happened. Almost all surveys of HYV cereals show
that fertilizer applications were below the recommended level; and other
changes in agronomic practices that should have been made were often ignored.
This is particularly important in the case of the new rice varieties. Unlike
the new wheat varieties that can yield near their full potential without major
changes in farming practices, the new rice varieties are highly responsive to
good management particularly to careful water control,and they do require
changes in farming practices.
18.      During the period 1967/68 to 1971/72, large annual increase in wheat
production were almost the sole source of additional foodgrain production. The
major cause of the production lag in the last two years of the Fourth Plan was
the abrupt ending of the growth in "rabi"l (winter) especially wheat production.
Some of this may be the result of weather; however, the greater part of it is
due to the spread of new races of rust to which the then existing wheat varieties
are not resistant, and to shortages of fertilizers and power. Since then, rust
resistant wheat varieties have been developed and their use is promoted widely.
19.      Up to 1971/72, foodgrain production growth in the Fourth Plan can
to a large degree be attributed to fertilizer use on irrigated HYV area; as
far as one can estimate about 65% of all fertilizers were being used on HYV
foodgrains by 1971/72.  So when fertilizer supplies stopped increasing,as they
did after 1971/72,production growth rapidly fell off despite a continued in-
crease in the area under HYVs. As a result, despite a reported further increase
of nearly 7 million ha in the HYV area during 1972/73 and 1973/74, foodgrain
production, especially "rabill production which had grown at the annual rate
of 7% during the 10 years up to 1971/72, actually declined. This was partly
also due to severe power shortages in both 1972/73 and 1973/74 which undoubtedly
had a major effect on pump irrigation and crop yields.
20.      The following table compares the targets and estimated achievements
during the Fourth Plan with respect to HYV area and production:
HYV Production (Mill-
HYV Area (Million ha)              ion tons)
Target     Achievement         Target   Achievement
Rice                        7.5         6.9               1.h8        0.85
Wheat                       2.9         6.o               1.65        1.25
Maize                      0.8          0.2               1.24        0.85
Jowar                       2.5         0.4              1.24         o.65
Bajra                       2.1         2.3               0.62        0.55
15.8        15.8               6.23        4.15



ANNEX 2-2
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
FERTILIZER CaNSUMPTION
1.        From a low base, fertilizer consumption grew at a rapid pace with
the average annual increase for the decade 1954/55 - 196h/65 being 16.h%
for N, 26% for P and 20% for K (Table 1).  In the following decade (1964/65
- 197h/75), the average annual rate of increase was slower with consumption
of N growing at 15.5%, P at 13.8% and K at 17.6%. However, the average in-
crease for the 1964/65 - 197h/75 is =isleading because there was only mar-
ginal increase in fertilizer consumpt:ion during the last three years. If
those three years are excluded, the average annual rate of increase in fert-
ilizer consumption during the decade anding 1971/72 (when there was no ex-
cessive shortage or surplus of fertil:Lzer), was 19.7% for N, 2h% for P and
27% for K. In other words, the rate of increase in consumption with respect
to all the three nutrients had not slackened up to 1971/72. This is not
surprising considering the fact that fertilizer consumption per ha is still
one of the world's lowest -- about 16 kg of nutrients for India compared to
85 kg for the U.S., 49 kg in the U.S.',.R. and 61 kg in Romania (Table 2);
countries that use extensive (rather than intensive) agricultural practices
similar to India.
2.        In terms of volume, fertilizer consumption in 1952/53 was only
58,000 tons of N, 4,600 tons of P and 3,300 tons of K (Table 1). By 1971/72,
over a period of nearly two decades, the consumption had increased to 1.76
million tons of N, 56h,000 tons of P and 304,000 tons of K. In the following
three years, N consumption of K actually declined by  about 5%.  The following
table summarizes fertilizer consumption trends siLnce 1952/53:
Fertilizer Consumption
('000 nutrient tons)
N          p           PK          TOTAL
1952/53         57.8        LL.6       3;.3           65.7
1962/63        360.0       81.4       36.4           477.8
1966/67        838.7      2h8.6      115.7         1,203.0
1970/71      1,487.1      462.0      228.2         2,177.3
1971/72      1,755.1      561L.0     30.0         2,623.4
1972/73      1,778.9    587.LL       332.5         2,698.8
1973/74      1,835.0      634.0      314.0         2,783.0
1974/75      1,837.0      537.0      356.0         2,730.0
3.        Fertilizer consumption received a fillip in 1966/67 with the intro-
duction of the "green revolution" based on high-yielding seed varieties.
During the next five years up to 1971/712, consumption of each of the three
nutrients more than doubled. Data prior to 1966/67 also shows that nutrient
cons ,iption was doubling more or less every five years, but from a lower
base (Table 1). But the trend in consumption during the past three years
has been virtually stagnant.  In 1972/73 as well as in 1973/7h, there were
1ideapread shortages of fertilizers in India because of low production, for-
eign exchange difficulties and also duLe to the tight fertilizer supply sit-
uation in the world making it difficult to import even the quantity planned



ANNE 2-2
Page 2
for. This led to widespread shortages, affecting timely availability of
fertilizers. The consumption was also hampered with the doubling of fert-
lizer prices with effect from June 1, 1974 as a result of world fertilizer
shortages and also steep increases in fertilizer raw material costs, mainly
due to the steep increases in oil and rock phosphate prices. The doubling
of fertilizer prices in India was not followed by a corresponding increase
in foodgrain prices, though the increases allowed prior to June 1, 197h, are
reportedly remunerative even under the changed circumstances. However,
farmers were taken aback by the sudden upsurge in fertilizer prices and cut
back their plans for increased fertilizer consumption. This cutback was also
necessitated by the reluctance of the Government to increase the credit limit
to farmers to cope with the sharp increases in fertilizer prices. Instead,
the Government introduced a credit squeeze in a bid to control acute inflation
in the country. This further dampened the growth of consumption. Moreover,
the weather situation was unfavourable throughout the three-year period up to
19714/75. In 1974,/75, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Haryana -- three major con-
sumers of fertilizers -- were severely affected by drought. Partly as a
result of this, consumption of fertilizer nutrients dropped in those states
as follows:
Total Fertilizer Consumption
('000 nutrient tons)
1973/74    1974/75   Decline
Gujarat                     212        137        75
Tamil Nadu                  3k1        269        72
Haryana                     115          80       35
4.       Another state in which fertilizer consumption fell sharply in
1974/75 was Punjab, which had been spearheading the wheat revolution. How-
ever, the state was not affected by drought. The reason for the decline in
consumption was mainly due to high prices, inadequate credit, and switch
over from wheat to barley in certain parts of the state as barley production
without high dose of fertilizers had become more profitable. As a result of
the above factors, nutrient consumption dropped in Punjab from 333,000 tons
in 1973/74 to 305,000 tons in 1974/75.
Pattern of Fertilizer Consumption
5.        The pattern of consumption has undergone marked changes over the
1952-1975 period, with N fertilizers being supplemented with P and K fert-
ilizers. However, the achievement of balanced fertilization is a long way
off but the progress towards that goal is considerable. The N, P, K ratio
was about 17.75:1.4:1 in 1952/53, indicating that the concentration was mainly
on nitrogen use. However, with the increase in the use of P and K, the ratio
has gradually improved to 5.2:1.5:1 in 1974/75 (Table 1). Experiments and
field trials have indicated that the ideal N, P, K ratio under Indian soil
condition is probably 4:2:1. This awareness is growing in promoting fertili-
zer use in the country.



ANNEX 2-2
Page 3
State-wise Consumption
6.        The per ha consumption of' fertilizer nutrients reached 16 kg in
1971/72, the latest year for which ft.ll details are available (Table 2).
However, there has been significant variation in consumption per ha among
various states (Table 3). For example. the per ha consumption in Punjab,
the leading state in the "tgreen revolution", was nearly 53 kg -- more than
three times the national average. Tamil Nadu and Haryana and Andhra Pradesh
are three other states where the per ha consumption is significantly higher
than the all-India average. But in about six states -- Assam, Rajasthan,
Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, Himnachal Pradesh and Janmu_ and Kashmir, the per ha
consumption is less than half of the national average.  Additional promotion-
al efforts are necessary in these areas to step up fertilizer consumption.
7.        With respect to the N, P, K consumpticn ratio also, there are marked
variations among states compared to the all-India ratio of nearly 6:2:1 in
1971/72 (Table 4). The ratio varies :rom 3:1.5:1 in Maharashtra to 29.5:2.7:1
in Haryana. Even among the states where per ha consumption is comparatively
high, the N, P, K ratio shows wide divergence from the ideal national ratio
of h:2:1 as shown below:-
N, P, K Ratio
(1971/72)
Punjab                        18.6:4.4:1
Tamil Nadu                     3.5:1.2:1
Haryana                        19.6:3.9:1
Andhra Pradesh                  7.2:2.7:1
8.        The above table shows that even among the leading states with res-
pect to per ha fertilizer consumption, there may be lack of balanced use.
This perhaps is one of the reasons why further increase in fertilizer use in
those states has been slackening in re-ent years.  Farmers in those areas
should be made to realize through soil testing and extension work that their
N, P, K ratio needs to be improved to get significant farm yield increases
from additional per ha use of nutrients.
Consumption by Type of Fertilizers
9.        Over the years, there has been considerable change in the share of
different fertilizer materials in total consumption. Ammonium sulphate, and
calcium ammonium nitrate (CAN) were the most important fertilizers used in
the past. However, in recent years high-analysis fertilizers such as urea
and complex fertilizers have gained in importance as shown below:-



ANNEC 2-2
Page e
Apparent Consumption by Types of Fertilizers
('000 Product Tons)
1_962/63                  197L/75
Pro-            Con-      Pro-             Con-
duction Imports sumption duction Imports pumtion
Awmonium Sulfate                   422      597     1 ,019    589     235     82b
Anmnonium Chloride                  1l       -         11      27      30      57
Calcium Anmoniun Nitrate (CAN)    326        13       339    h06      360     766
Animonium Sulfate Nitrate           62       -         62      27      1IJ     41
Urea                                19      219       238  1.,721   1,244   2,965
Armonium Phosphate Sulfate           9       -          9    139       -      139
Nitrophosphate                      -        48        L8    210      183     393
Diamnmonium Phosphate               -        -         -      58      136     49h
Urea Anmonium Phosphate             -        -         -     165       -      165
NPK Complex Fertilizers             -        -         -     66h      286     950
Superphosphates                    h87       -        1L87    837      -      837
Triple Superphosphate              -       -                            5       8
Total Products          1.336     887      2,213  4,846   2,793   7,639
Crop-wise Consumption
10.       In 1970/71, the latest year for which details of crop-wise fert-
ilizer consumption are available, foodgrains accounted for nearly 66% of all
fertilizer nutrient consumption and non-food crops for the remaining 34%
(Table 5). Among the food crops, rice and wheat accounted for slightly more
than 50% of all nutrients. Among the non-food crops, sugarcane and cotton
accounted for slightly more than one-fourth of the total nutrient consump-
tion. The following table shows the respective percentage shares of nutrient
consumption by selected crops:-
Fertilizer Consumption by Selected Crops (1970/71)
(percentages)
Total
N            P             K             Nutrients
Foodgrains                 68.0         62.6          ho.8              65.7
of which:
Rice                   31.7         34.5          18.3              31 .h
Wheat                  21.7          8.9          10.1              19.2
Non-Food Crops             32.0         37.L          59.2              3h.3
of which:
Sugarcane              18.0         14.4          31.3              18.2
Cotton                  7.8          7.4           9.2               7.9
All Crops                 100.0        100.0         100.0             100.0
All Crops ('000 tons)    1,487         L62           228               2,177
With respect to individual nutrients, N and P are predominantly used on food
crops while K is mostly used on non-food crops.



ANNEX 2-2
Page 5
Season-wise Consumption
11.       The following table shows the trend of fertilizer consumption in
?kharif"' (monsoon) and "rabi" (winter) crop seasons for the last four years:-
Kharif           Rabi           Total
1971/72
N               733           1,022           1,755
P               2383            326             564
K               121             183             304
1972/73
N               682           1,097           1,779
P               23^             356             587
K               1146            187             333
1973/74
N               786           1,0149          1,835
p               275;            359             63h
K               1141            173             314
19714/75
N               755          1,082            1,837
P               235             302             537
K               16E             188             356
1975/76 (est.) 2!
N             900             1,275           2,175
p             280              379             659
K             185              215              400
1/ Estimate by the Fertilizer Association of India.
12.       The maJor part of fertilizers -- about 60% of N as well as P, and 55%
of K -- are consumed during the "rabi" season. Food production during rirabit'
is also higher than during "kharif" .              In the "rabi" season, the
growing season is longer, there is less incidence of diseases because of low
humidity, and irrigation water is assured. Assured irrigation is critical at
the sowing, tillering, primordial (earing) and dough (grain-filling) stages.



ANlNEX 2-2
Table 1
IliDI:.:  FEV1'T!TLIZR fl2){TE7PX_R,)5C-.  c~II
YT, P, Y Consumption anr(  ?a-tis
-'------ O 000! tons-
Total
Year -             TT      'P            T''   fl+P+K          1I:P:K: I1atic
1"52/53           57.8      14.6          3.3     65.7         17.52 : 1.39 :
1953/54           89.3      8.3           7.5    105.1         21.91 : 1.11 :
1951155           94.8     15.0          11.1    12009          8.54 * 1.35: 1
1955/56          107.5     13.0          10.3    130.8         10.-4  : 1.26 :1
1956/57          123.1     15.9          14.8    153.8          3.31 : 1.07 :
1957/58          149.0     21.9          12.8    183.7         11.6)4 : 1.71 :1
1958/59          172.0     29.5          22.i    223.9          7.68   1.32 :1
1959/60          229.3     53.9          21.3    3045         10.77   2.53 :1
1960/61          211.7     53.1          29.0    293.8          7.30   1.33 :1
1961/62          291.5     63.9          28.0    383.4         1(.1t1  2.28 :1
1962/63          360.0     81.4          36.1   477.8           9.89   2.2: 1
1963/64          407.0    116.7          50.6    574.3          8.01.  2.31 :1
196)165          434.5   147.7           70.4    652.6          6.17 : 2.10 : 1
1965/66          547.4;   132.2          77.7    757.3          7.05   1.70 :1
1966/67          838.7    248.6         115.7  1,203.0          7.25   2.15 : 1
1967/68          799.5    236.5         129.8  1,165.8          6.16   1.82 : 1
1968/69        1,131.3    389.2         154.2  1,674.7          7.34 : 2.52 : 1
1969/70        1,360.3    419.8         209.4  1,989.5          6.50 : 2.00 : 1
1970/71        1,487.1    462.0         228.2  2,177.3          6.52 : 2.02 * 1
1971/72        1,755.4    564.0         304.0  2,623.4          5.77 : 1.86 : 1
1972/73        1,778.9    587.4I        332.5  2,698.8          5.35 : 1.77 : 1
1973/7l4       1,835.0    634.0         314.0  2,783.0          5.84 : 2.02 : 1
197)175        1,837.0    537.0         356.0  2,730.0          5.16 : 1.51 : 1
Average Annual Growth Rate (%)
1954/55-1964/65   16.4     26.0          20.0     18.4
1964/65-1974/75   15.5     13.8          17.6     15.4
1954/55-197)/75   16.0     19.6          19.0     16.9
1969/70-1974/75
1/ April 1 - March 31
2/ For 1952/53 to 1957/57, distribution figure is treated as consumpption.
SOURCES:  FAI, Fertilizer Statistics, 1973/74, table 7.01, for all years
except 1974/75 for which data were provided by the Ministry of
Petroleum and Chemicals.
TIc'ustrial Projects Department
June 1975
3



ANNEX 2-2
Table 2f
IjDTIA: FERTTIIIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
FERTILIZER CONSIR4PTION IN RELATION TO APUIBLE LAND(1972/73)
Consumption per Ha of Arable Land   Per Capita
Total   Consumption
N        P         K      N+P+K    of N+P+TC
India                     10.7       3.5      2.0      16.2      4.8
Banglad.esh                1.3       0.7      -         2.0      0.9
Brazil                    11.6      20.8     13.4    145.8      15.8
B3urma                     2.4       0.5      0.1       3.0      2.0
Chile                     11.L      16.5      3.5      31.4     14.2
Egypt                    122.7      30.8      1.4    154.9      12.3
France                    87.0    107.8      85.6    280.4    103.5
Germany (FRG)            lk6.9    111.5    141.8    4oo0.2     52.8
Greece                    57.8      314.4     5.5      97.7     39.4
Israel                    80.5      38.1     32.0    150.6      20.6
Italy                     56.2      47.4     21.6    125.2      28.3
Japan                    138.4    135.4  '-113.2    387.0       19.1
Korea, Republic of       161.2      74.0    II5.1    280.3      19.2
MexiccW                   18.9       5.9      1.3      26.1     13.2
Netherlands              446.4    120.1    150.4    716.9        45.2
Pakistan                  20.1       2.5      0.1      22.7      6.6
Philippines               10.3      3.6       3.5     17.4       4.7
Poland                    64.6      51.6     84.9    201.1      91.4
Romania                   40.1      16.5       4.3     60.9     30.8
Sri Lanka                 28.7       4.9     17.7      51.3      7.7
Spain                     31.5      22.1     12.2      65.8     41.0
Thailand                   4.4       4.0      3.0      11.4      4.1
Turkey                    13.6       8.9      1.0      23.5     25.2
United Kingdom           131.1      65.0     6o.2    256.3      33.0
United. States            39.6      2h.1     20.9      84.6     77.4
USSR                      214.2     11.1     13.9      49.2      46.3
Yugoslavia                141.8     25.0     21.3      88.1     34.5
Averages
Asia                      28.0       9.1      3.2      40.3      6.3
Developing Market
Economies                9.9       4.6      2.6     17.1       6.3
Developed Xarket
Economies               42.3     33.8      26.2    102.3      54.9
Centrally, Planned
Economines              30,8     14.9      16.1     61.8      21.3
W;Jorld                   214.4     1-5.3    12.7      52.4     20.6
SOURCE: FAO Annual Fert,i.lizer Rteview, 1973.
Tndustrial Projects Department
June 1975



ANNEX 2-2
Table 3
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
REGIONWISE FERTILIZER CONSUMPTION PER UNIT OF CROPPED AREA
(kg/ha)
-- 1970/71 -----------                ---------- 1971/72 -----------
N        P         K       Total      N         P         K       Total
Central                  6.80     1.96      0.89      9.65     9.82      2.18      1.16      13.16
Madhya Pradesh        2.57      1.26      0.21     4.04      3.86      1.64      0.29      5.79
Rajasthan             2.85      0.79      0.13      3.77     3.50      1.12      0.35      4.97
Uttar Pradesh        13.03      3.33      1.99    18.35    15.13       3.32      2.54     20.90
Delhi                25.20      3.31      1.44    29.95      NA        NA       NA         NA
East                    5.14      1.32      0.86     7.32      6.27      1.42      1.13      8.82
Assam                 1.69      0.71      0.52     2.92      1.77      0.74      0.43      2.94
Bihar                 6.84      1.62      0.65     9.11      7.92      1.28     0.59       9.79
Orissa                2.73      0.74      0.28     3.75      4.46      1.00     0.48       5.94
West Bengal           9.70      1.86      2.07    13.63      8.39      2.63      3.30     14.32
Manipur               2.43      0.23      0.06      2.72     3.60      0.46      0.18      4.24
Tripura               0.95      0.22      0.19      1.36     0.46      0.11      0.07      0.64
Nagaland              0.41      0.22      0.22     0.85      NA        NA        NA        NA
North                  21.94      3.73      0.85    26.52    25.06       5.05      1.28     31.39
lHaryana             15.04      1.69      0.55    17.28    14.77       1.35      0.50     16.62
Himachal Pradesh      3.48      1.98      0.88     6.34      4.53      1.77      0.89      7.19
Jammu & Kashmir       4.47      1.60      0.42     6.49      4.86      0.95     0.31       6.12
Punjab               33.06      5.93      1.32    40.31    40.92       9.57     2.20      52.69
South                  15.05      5.07      3.06    23.18    15.91       6.00      3.96     25.87
Andhra Pradesh       16.62      4.74      1.38    22.74    14.88       5.64      2.07     22.59
Kerala                9.23      4.97      5.66    19.86    10.73       5.38      6.17     22.28
Karnataka             8.76      3.52      2.47    14.75      9.08      3.84     2.53      15.45
Tamil Nadu           23.86      7.81      5.79    37.46    29.88       9.91     8.52      48.31
Pondicherry          60.78    39.22    23.92   123.92    62.94    36.67    25.10    124.71
West                     7.27     3.52      1.40    12.19      8.24      4.35      1.72     14.31
Gujarat              10.14      5.09      0.56    15.79    11.21       6.00     0.69      17.90
Maharashtra           5.74      2.68      1.86    10.28      6.70      3.47      2.25     12.42
Goa                   3.73      1.78      0.61     6.12      8.74      5.54      2.17     16.45
ALL INDIA                9.34     2.90      1.42    13.67    10.74       3.44      1.85      16.03
SOURCE: FAI, Fertiliser Statistics, 1971/72, Table 6.18.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1975



ANNEX 2-2
Table Ii
I NIDIA:  FFIRTILIT?T INDUSTR'hY CRElDIT
Th\TFWISE CONSIUJIPTION RAT¶IOS  OF N,   l. 1 (1970-72)
1'7O/71                              19711/72
C ont ral                        7.6 : 2.2    J °   1                         :. .    1.
!IarThya Prado1e               12.2: 6.0 : 1                          13.3 : '.7: 1
Ra!asthan                       21.9: 6.1: 1                         10.0: 3.,": 1
littar Pradesh                   6.5 : J.7    1                        6.0     1.3    1
Delhi                          17.5: ?.3: I                                   rH,
F a. t,                          6.0: 1.5: i                            .5: 1.3 1: 
A,isam                           3.3 : lit: 1                          1.1: 1.7: I
13Bl.brw                        10.().: 2.5 : I                      13.b    '      :.?    2
0 ri rfi. sa                     o.     2.6: 1                         9.3: 2.21: i
'.-r,t  crn-a1                   ); .7 : 0.9: 1                        ' .5    O.  : I
14M ilpur                       4.)0'; : 3.8: 1                       20.(0: '2.6: 'I
Tripura                          5.0  : 1.2 : ]                        6.6    1 ..O6  : i
Nagl3 Land                       1      i.9:   .n    1                        HA
No:rth                          2r.h   )t.fl   1                      19.h   3.'?    1
I laryana                       2)7.3    3.1    1                     29.;   2.7    1
1-ii III-chal  Prade- i          )i .0    2.3     1                    5.1      .0 
jarI.trnu  r W1aslmir         1]0.6    3.85: 1                        15.7: 3.1 : 1
Pi in  )                       ?5.()   h-5: 1                        IP.6 :           1S.!i: I
',______ v]]t11                  t      1.7:                           l.0: 1.5: 1
Andfir;1. r!4ra--h             12.0    3.4, : 1                        7.2: 2.7: I
enI a                            1.6    0.9: 1                         1.7: 0.9: 1
l arrnrtaka                      3.5    1.h : 1                        3.6    1.5    1
Taril;.l NF-rIi                 ),.1    1.3 : 1                       3.5    1.,': I
Pondlicherrv                     2.5:  1.6: 1                          2.5: 1.',: 1
.r(  .2r *p    :).r>: 1                        .5    1
(lujarat                       ]8.l   9.1 : 1                         1.6.2 :.7    1
Mahara-;WIlraI                   3.1 I        : 1                      3.0 : ] .5    1
(G.a                             6.1    2.9 : 1                        h.0: 2.6: 1
ALT,. JlDLit                     6.6  : 2).0  : 1                      5.3 : 14)    1
Th]r*:; trlal 'ro ectz D)epare.ment
J une 1'37'



ANNEX 2-2
Table 5
INDIA:                 TDITIlII,'1? TNDUET!VY c.CRE)TT
FERTILIZER 0,5h' 011 DTI?FLFRNT CRO1S-  1970/71
I1n percentages)
TJ tal
Grops                       N____r P                                 l;           M r~ '
ri; C(, ("                     31.7              34.5               18.3              3] .h
VIl)eat                        ?1l7               F.-)              1-0.1             1.
T o-5ar                         1!7.5             8.7                ?.7                  3
MWd Zf' (Corn)                   i.7              1.2                1.7                Jt.0
O t;lior Ccre e a I              .7               8.6                1.7                 .1
'!ToLa1 Cereal                 17 . 3            61.9     '          0.O               5,.)
i 11ICs F                       ('.7              0.7                °.3               0.7
TPTPLI FOO(TPAJI (T                               62.6              0(.0              6' * 7
Cotton                          7.7 7.                               7.
,;'v; arCarLe                 12 *               11L.II             31.3              12 *
0;.1: ed?;                                       10.1                " 2.6             3
Otiirr Crop,'                   3.7               5.2               1.G                  * 6
'T'iTUL AT, CHOTr'           ThC) 0             1"  0.0           100 0;
'--(0lU2l-CI .:  ,;I'.nl: "oport, "E1Th- ncij i. u-lioii ard Proporect.r' of Tridia,
(TfBe})OL~Pa .lO.,9a-S) lA    19Z75C  Table 7.,
Indim: .trial  'ro jects i(partrnf nt
,T1lne 1975



ANNEK 2-3
INDIA: FERTIIUZER INDlJSTRY CREDIT
FERTILIZER CONSUNPTION FORECASTS
1.        The Fourth Plan (1968/69-1973/74) target for N was 3.2 million tons;
for P, 1.4 million tons and for K, 0.9 million tons. However, the overall
achievement was only about one half of the target for all nutrients.
2.        The official consumption target for the Fifth Plan is 5.2 million
tons for N; 1.8 million tons for P; and 1.0 million tons for K (Table 1).
This will require an average annual increase of 23% for N as well as P, and 27%
for K over the Plan period. Bat, during the first year (1974/75) of the Plan,
there was virtually no increase in N conEsumption and P consumption actually
declined. Only K consumption showed considerable increase from a low base.
Consumption of all nutrients i: 1975/76 is, however, expected to show a signi-
ficant increase because of the relaxation of credit and the distribution system,
the good 'rabi' harvest of 1975 improving the cash position of farmers to buy
fertilizers, and comfortable su1pply situation in the country. Further, 1975/76
is expected to be a normal yea:r weat:herwise. Because of these factors, FAI has
projected the consumption in 1975/76 to increase by at least 20% for N, 22% for
P, and 16% for K. The following table shows the revised FAI forecast of con-
sumption up to 1978/79:
FAI Con.5umption Forecast
(million nutrient tons)
Fiscal Year                    N                P               K
1973/74 (actual)              1 .14            0.63            0.31
1974/75 (actual)              1. 84            0.54            0.36
1975/76                       2.1 0            o.66            0.40
1976/77                     2.5-2.9         0.85-1.00       o.50-o.60
1977/78                    3.0-3.5          1.10-1.30       0.60-0.70
1978/79                    3.5-4.0          1.20-1.80       0.70-0.90
3.        For the purpose of this report, the lower end of the forecasts by
FAI are used. Thus, the 1978/79 consumption is projected at 3.5 million tons
for N, 1.2 million tons of P, and 0.7 million tons of K compared to 1.13 million
tons of N, 0.39 million tons of' P and 0.15 million tons of K in 1968/69. For
the decade (1968/69-1978/79) as a whole, the average annual growth rates would
be about 12% for both N and P, and 16% for K.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 2
The fertilizer consumption is projected to advance as follows:
Bank Fertilizer Consumption Forecast
(million nutrient tons)
N:P:K
N          P           K         Total          Ratio
1968/69              1.13        0.39       0.15   .67              7.5:2.6:1
1973/74 (actual)    1.84         0.63        0.31      2.80         5.9:2.1:1
1974/75 (actual)    1.84         o.54       0.36       2.74         5.1:1.5:1
1975/76              2.10        0.71       0.h4       3.21         5.3:1.8:1
1976/77              2.50        0.85       0.50       3.85         5.0:1.7:1
1977/78              3.00        1.00       o.60       4.76         5.0:1.8:1
1978/79              3.50        1.20       0.70       5.h0         5.0:1.7:1
1979/80              1.00        1.30       0.80       6.10         4.9:1.7:1
1980/81              4.30        1.50       0.90       6.70         4.7:2.0:1
1981/82             4.60         1.70       1.00       7.30         4.6:1.7:1
1982/83              4.90        1.90        1.20      8.00         4.1:1.6:1
1983/84              5.20        2.10       1.h0       8.70         3.7:1.5:1
Growth Rates (%)
1967/77              12.0        12.0        16.5      12.5
1974/79              13.7        13.0       17.6       14.0
197484               11.0        12.5       16.2       12.0
1979/84               8.5        12.0       15.0       10.0
4.        Prospects for growth of consumption are highly unpredictable, given
the past three years of stagnant consumption, the large unfulfilled agronomic
need, and the obvious need forsubstantial and fundamental policy changes by GOI.
There has been no recent forecast based on statistically valid methods and the
forecasts originating from official Indian sources have been too optimistic.
5.        The above forecasts are largely derived from pragmatic assumptions,
given the previous history of the fertilizer sector in India. The forecast
assumes a rapid recovery of growth in N consumption, to average 14% annually
during the next four years; and, with some modest improvement in N, P, K ratios,
the total nutrient consumption is likely to reach 5.4 million tons in 197B/79.
This level coincides with the Bank Agricultural Project Department forecasts
based on foodgrain production requirements. However, unless policy changes on
pricing, distribution, and credit are implemented quickly, even these forecasts
are likely to prove optimistic. It is conceivable that 1978/79 consumption
could be as low a level as 3.0, 1.0 and 0.6 million TPY for N, P, K respectively
corresponding to 10.3% and 10.5% annual growth respectively for N and total
nutrients during 197/1979.



ANNEX 2-4
INDIA : YERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
FERTILIZER PRODUCTION
1.        India produces nitrogenous, phosphatic and NPK complex fertilizer.
The country depends entirely on imports of potash fertilizer.
2.        The total installed capacity of the fertilizer plants in production
in the country at the end of 1'574/75 was about 2 million tons of N and
560,000 tons of P.  Six nitrogenous plants went into production during
the last three years. They included : Madras Fertilizer Ltd., Madras;
Zuari Agrochemicals, Goa; Cockin I of Fertilisers and Chemicals, Travancore
Ltd., Cochin; Southern Petrochemical Industries Corporation, Tuticorin;
and the Kalol-Kandla plants of IFFCO. There has also been some revamping
of phosphate capacity during that period. Total production during 1974/75
was 1.2 million tons of N and 326,000 tons of P compared to 69,000 tons of
N and 14,200 tons of P in 1954/55.
Pubblic Sector Companies
3.        There are six major public sector companies -- Fertilizer
Corporation of India (FCI), National Fertilizers Limited (NFL), Fertilisers
and Chemicals, Travancore Limited (FACT), Neyveli, Khvthri and Rourkela.
FCI and FACT, which have been tile beneficiary of previous IDA credits,
are familiar to the Bank. Annex 3-2 includes a description of FCI.
FCI, one of the largest fertilizer companies in the world, accounts for
16.5% of the fertilizer capacit- in lndia.  Its size and large-scale
expansioon programs have led to management and financial constraints
which are discussed more fully in Annex 3-3. However, FCI management
has responded well over the past 2-3 years and considerable progress
has been noted in planning and project execution and in performance of
some of the individual units, particularly Trombay, Namrup and Gorakhpur.
4.        FCI has under construction eleven new plants of which three
are coal-based, and the rest based on either gas, naphtha or fuel oil.
Work is continuing on all except one -- the Korba project which is
stalled for lack of funds.  There is insufficient information available
now to judge the technical and economic viability of coal-based plants.
The capital costsof these projects have escalated greatly and they are
seriously delayed.  Before any further coal-based plants are undertaken,
a thorough study of technology and costs is needed.
5.       N4iL is a newly-formed (197L) company, created in
part in recognition of the const: aints in FCI, to take advantage of
available Japanese credits, and to develop an additional engineering



ANNEX 2-4
Page 2
comipany (Engineers India Limited) in India with ammonia
experience. At present, two duplicate projects, Bhatinda (Punjab) and
Panipat (Haryana) are being built, and the projects are proceeding
satisfactorily. The company is being staffed largely from FOI middle
management and engineering personnel. The local engineering is being
executed by lhgineers India Ltd. under the supervision of Toyo
Engineering of Japan who are the design engineers. A third project may
be undertaken later in the Fifth Plan period. The company is 100% GOI-
owned. As yet, the Managing Director has not been appointed, but other
senior management and the Board of Directors appear to be functioning
well. Previous mistakes in public sector project implementation have
been recognized and appear to be corrected in the NFL projects.
6.        FACT was the beneficiary of an IDA Credit in 1972. GOI owns
95% of the shares with the balance held by Kerala and Tamil Nadu
Governments and private shareholders.  The company has major management
and financial problems. The political relations with Kerala appear
to have kept the Central Government from taking a strong role in FACT
management. Outside engineering expertise has not been effectively
used and the project is proceeding at a very slow pace.
7.        The Neyveli Lignite Corporation was created in the late 1950s
to develop lignite reserves.  Later, it received a Government licence
to produce urea. Today, its facilities have the following capacities:
3.3 million TPY of lignite mining; 600NW power generation and 152,000
TPY urea capacity. Major shortfall is quantity and quality of lignite
which have resulted in low-capacity utilization in power and chemical
fertilizer production and created financial difficulties for the
company.
8.        Khethri has a TSP plant (capacity - 90,000 nutrient tons per
year) under construction, based on Rajasthan phosphate rock deposits
now being mined in limited amounts. The project, being built by FACT's
engineering company, has serious financing problems. The project is
beMlnd schedule, but should be finished by the end of 1976.
9.        Rourkela with a capacity of 460,000 TPY of CAN (:Le. 115,000
TPY N) wasbuilt in 1962 to utilize an apparent excess of coke-oven gas
from the adjacent Hindustan Steel Limited plant. The plant itself
operates reasonably well but low steel productivity plus increased
use of gas within the steel mill have created a significant shortage
of feedstock. A 180 TPD naphtha reformer which operates satisfactorily
was built in the late 1960s to supplement feedstock, but continued
shortages of gas kept fertilizer capacity utilization low.
10.       The five joint sector companies have proved to be efficient
enterprises within the Indian system. Three are partially owned by
state governments, one is partially owned by the GOI, and one is a
cooperative (IFFCO) venture.  All have competent professional
management and apparently operate substantially outside the constraints



ANNEX 2-14
Page 3
and govern=erltal interventions faced by the public sector companies.
They are able to expand since they generate internal capital and the
partial public sector ownership makes it politically acceptable for
GOI to contribute financially. The joint sector will likely remain an
efficient vehicle for expansion in tile future.
Priv&te Sector Companies
11.       The private sector urnits would most likely remain efficient
producers but expansion, if at all, would come slowly. Expansion of the
larger private companies in India is limited by the Monopolies Restrictive
Act. At present all corporate dividends are also limited by law and public
borrowing carries with it the GOI option to convert loans to GOI equity.
A foreign company has difficulty :n repatriating profits, plus for the
existing firms anY expansion requires dilution of foreign held equity to
26%. A recent regulation also taxes heavily any expatriate personnel
working in India more than 6 monthis. These restrictions have clearly
prevented companies such as DCM, I'ata, I1L  and Coromandel from undertaking
major fertilizer expansions.
Engineering Companies
12.       There are three public sector engineering companies, FCI,
FACT and  EIL plus several private companies based on collaboration/
owneship arrangements with foreigr. engineering firms. The companies
play an important role since India can competitively supply a large
proportion, if designed properly, cf a fertilizer project equipment.
13.       The private companies, operating outside direct GOI control,
generally perform reasonabLy well since the parent company usually
provides a proven design package and handles foreign procurement.
Performance of FCI and EIL have improved substantially although they
must operate within the public sector framevork and decision taking
and management need improvement. FACT's engineering group has lost
most of its staff to other Indian companies and to Arabian Gulf
fertilizer companies and is largely defunct although political forces
in Kerala will probably attempt to keep it in existence.
Comparison of Production
14.       Latest production figures for different countries are
available only for 1972/73. They sh0ow that India has emerged as the
10th largest producer of nitrogenous fertilizers as shown below



ANNEX 2-4
Page4
Nitrogenous Fertilizer Production by Selected Countries
(million tons)
1971/72       1972/73
U.S.A.                       8.09          8.47
USSR                         6.06          6.55
Japan                        2.13          2.45
China                        1.85          2.25
France                       1.42          1.47
Germany, F.R.                1.32          1.47
Poland                       1.08          1.15
Netherlands                  1.04          1.19
Italy                        1.03          1.05
India                        0.95          1.05
World                       35.00         38.03
Source: FAO, Fertilizer Review, 1973
15.       In the production of P fertilizers, there are 17 countries in
the world which produce more of such fertilizers than India. In 1972/73,
India with 330,000 tons of production accounted for only 1.4% of world
production of P (estimated at 23.7 million tons) compared to nearly 3%
of the world output of N.
Product Mix
16.       A variety of nitrogenous, phosphatic and complex fertilizers
are produced in India including urea, ammonium sulfate, calcium ammonium
nirate., aumonium sulfate nitrate, aamonium chloride, single super-
pnhophate (16% P), triple superphosphate (45% P) amonium phosphate
sulfate (16-20-0), diaumonium phosphate (18-46-05, urea armonium
phosphate (28-28-0, 14-35-14), nitropbosphate (15-15-15), and NPK
fertilizers (17-17-17 and 14-28-14).
17.       The following table shows the capacity and volume of production
of various fertilizers in 1974/75.
Produetwise Capacity Utilization
('000 product tons)
Capacity
Capaoity       Production       Utilzation(%)
Ammoium Sulfate              -     910             589              {d5
Ammonium Sufate Nitrate             50              27              54
Urea                             2,808           1,721              61
Calcium Ammonium Nitrate           800             406              51
Ammonium Chloride                   66              27              41
Ammonium Phosphate Sulfate         222             139              63
Nitrophosphate                     180             210             117
Diamnonium Phosphate               108              58              54
Urea Amronium-Phosphate            410             165              40
NKP Complex Fertilizers            365             664             182/
Superphosphates                  1,350             837              62
Triple Superphosphates              27               3              11
Total N                          1,961           1,185              60
Total P                            560             326              58
1 / In plants producing both Urea and NPK fertilizers, flexibility exists
to increase the production of complex fertilizers.
Source: Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals.



ANNEX 2-4
-age 5
18.      Urea is the most leadintg fertilizer produced in India. Data
for an international comparison oif the share of urea in total N
fertilizer production is available only for 1972/73 as shown below
Total N                 Urea as %
Fertilizers     Urea      of Total
(million nutrient ton)
India                     1.05          0.65         62.0
U.S.A.                     8.47         0.52          6.1
Japan                     2.45          1.47         60.0
Republic of Korea         0.39          0.30         78.o1/
France                    1.47          0.70          5.0
Italy                     1.05          0.37         36.0
1/ 1970/71 figure.
Source: FAQ, Fertilizer Review, 1972/73
19.      Urea production as a percentage of total N production in India
is high as in the case of Japan arnd Korea. lUrea being a high-analysis
fertilizer is in great demand especially in Asian countries. Because of
its high-analysis, transportation cost per unit of N is lower for urea
than for most N fertilizers.
20.      Currently, urea accounts for about 68% of the licensed capacity
of N in India. The percentage is expected to go up to 75% by 1978/79
when the Licensed capacity is forecast to increase by nearly 40% to
1.8 million nutrient tons from 1.3 million nutrient tons in 1974/75.
21.      Caoacity   Forecasts:  The installed capacity for N fertilizer in
expected to increase from nearly 2 million tons in 1974/75 to 5.1 million
tons by 1978/79, and to further increase to 6.3 million tons by the end of the
Sixth Plan in 1983/84. In the case of P fertilizers, the installed capacity
is expected to increase from about 560,000 tons to 1. 3 million tons in
1978/79 and 1.7 million tons in 15983/84 (Tables 1, 2 and3 ).
22.  to Production of Complex Fertilizers: India's first NPK plant
went into commercipi production at Tromqh,y in i965/19606. It hes a capaci-ty
of 365,000 product tons of NPK. One more NPK unit is under construction:
Cochin II will have a product capacity of 485,000 tons. Further, the
Karnila plant of IFFCO, which went into production in early 1975, has a
capacity of about 400,000 tons of diammonium    phosphate (DAP). The
addition of potash to it enables a variety of NPK grades to be made.
according to need.



ANMEX 2-4
Page 6
23        Mixing Plants : In terms of nutrient content, both mixed and
granulated fertilizers are more expensive than single-element or complex
products. There are 636 mixing plants, including 179 in the cooperative
sector.  Hand-mixed fertilizer is che,per than granulated fertilizer.
However, only powdered materials can be mixed and only low-analysis
mixtures can be produced. These powdered products tend to absorb water
in storage and handling, and they may be adulterated by unscrupulous
mixers or sellers.  Short-weighting is also sometimes practiced during
the bagging process. Distribution of mixed fertilizers totalled
898,000 tons in 1967/68, but fell to 753,221 tons in 1968/69. Since
then, it has declined further to about half a million tons. The mixture
consumption is deelining mainly because of competition from complex
fertilizers.
2h.       Granulating Plants : There are 36 granulating plants, including
21 in the cooperative sector. Their total capacity at the end of 1974 was
about 1.6 million tons. It is expected to be raised to 2.1 million
tons by 1978/79. However, the sales of granulated mixtures
declined from 176,259 tons in 1971/72 to 135,977 tons in 1972/73 because
of growing competition from high-analysis urea and complex fertilizers
in their original manufactured form, better marketing, financing and
extension services of the large manufacturers, and higher prices for
granulated products. However, granulated products are easier to
handle, less subject to deterioration in storage or to leaching in the
field, and may come in somewhat higher analysis than simply-mixed
products. The National Cooperative Development Corporation, a heavy
investor in granulating plants, hopes that these units will be able to
produce tailor-made granulated mixtures for localized use, whereas
nationally distributed complex fertilizers come in only three or four
grades. It may even be possible-to include in them micro-nutrients,
whereas it would be ineffective for mixing plants to try to ensure
distribution of micro-nutrients in minuscule doses. If the railroads
can be induced to invest in bulk handling cars for solid chemicals, it
will be possible to reduce transportation costs for raw materials
(which now must be purchased in bags). Eventually granulating plants
might be able to develop into small-scale manufacturers of NPK
materials by purchasing anhydrous ammonia and phosphoric acid in tank-
car lots as raw materials (provided Indian producers of ammonia are
willing to encourage potential competitors).



TNNEX 2-4
Page 7
Consumption and Production Forecasts
25        The fertilizer consumption and production forecasts ( Tables 3 and 4)
in this report are lower than previous Bank/IDA estimates which were in turn much
lower than the official GOI projections.  Consumption is projected to double from
2.7 million to 54 million nutrient tons between 1974/75 and 1978/79. While
the forecasts are based on a pragmatic apprcach as opposed to a formal demand-
supply-price model, they represent the best judgement available within IDA and
those familiar with the fertilizer sector. The forecasts assume that factors
depressing consumption, which has stagnated at 2.7 million nutrient tons over
the last three years, will gradually be overcome during the next two years.
More importantly, the NPK consumption ratio , which has also stabilized at about
5:1.7:1 during the last three years, is assumed to remain at this level up to
1979/80. While a ratio of 5:1.7:1 is still far from the agronomically recom-
mended ratio of 4:2:1, it reflec-ts the impact of relative nutrient prices,
availability and the pattern of produ tion facilities that will evolve over the
next five years.  For example, the international (FOB) price of nitrogen (N, in
the form of urea) during 1975 is about 5.6 times the potassium (K, in the form
of muriate 9f potash) price and 1,2 times the phosphate (P205, in the form of
TSP) price-".  These ratios are projected to decrease to 3.2 and 11- respectively
during 1978/79 through 1980/81. In addition, the domestic urea plice is projected
to remain lower than the import cost while the domestic phosphate price is
expected to stay higher than the import price. Consequently, with the price of
N declining relative to the price of both K and P, it is unlikely that the NPK
ratio will shift towards proportionately less N and more K or P, unless there is
some price subsidy or if the growth in N consumption is drastically reduced.
Neither seems desirable.
26.       With installed capacity, plants uncder construction and the three new
projects proposed in the private/joint sector, the industry eould,potentially
supply all of the N and close to 85% of the P205 requirement during 1978/79
through 1980/81 ( Table 4).  However. the overall nutrient deficit cannot be
reduced since all potassium is imported and any gains from the higher N and
r2O5 production is offset by rising potassium consumption.
27.       The production forecast assumes that ongoing projects will be completed
as presently scheduled. Furthermore, three new projects in the private/joint
sector--namely, GSFC II, Nagarjuna Fertilizer (Shaw-Wallace), and the Maharashtra
Cooperative Fertilizer Company (MCFC)  are assumed to be implemented and completed
by 1979/80 One on-going project -- Korba -- and the three other proposed near
projects in the public sector, Troinbay V, Paradeep and Mathura, are assumed to be
postponed for at least two years and will be completed after 1980/ 81 The pro-
duction forecasts are derived in Table 3 which shows the capacity utilization
assumed for the plants installed as of the end of 1975 and those cheduled for
commissioning during 1976/77 through 1979/80. The production of he existing
plants are assumed to gradually improve from about 58% capacity utilization
during 1975/76 to 90% by 1980/81. The production from the
1/ The prices are in terms of nutrients on a per ton basis as
derived from Table 2 of Annex 4-5.



ANNEX 2-4
PageS8
new plants expected to come on-stream during 1977/78 through 1979/80 are
assumed to initially stay at low capacity levels--40% to 70%--since most of
these plants are based on coal and fuel oil feedstocks and represent new
technologies which may require some time to master thereby restricting capacity
utilization during the initial few years of operation.
28.       The following table shows the production/consumption comparison
for N and P fertilizers up to 1983/84; based on Bank forecasts (Table 4):
Production/Consumption Comparison
('000 nutrient tons)
N Fertilizer                           P Fertilizer
Production  Consumption Deficit  1/   Production  Consumption  Deficit l/
1974/75
(actual)       1,185       1,837      -  652            326         537      -  211
1975/76        1,600       2,100      -  500            500          710     -  210
1976/77        2,100        2,500     -  400             700         850     -  150
1977/78        2,600       3,000      -  400            850        1,000     -  150
1978/79        3,400       3,500      -  100          1,000        1,200     -  200
1979/80        4,000        4,000          0          1,100        1,300     -  200
1980/81        4,300       4,300           0          1,200        1,500     -  300
1981/82        4,500       4,600      -  100          1,400        1,700     -  300
1982/83        4,800       4,900      -  100          1,500        1,900     -  400
1983/84        5,100       5,200      -  100          1,700        2,100     -  400
1/   Does not correspond to imports since stocks are not considered.
Forecasts sbow that India would be able to reduce its heavy dependence on N
imports and could approach self-sufficiency by the end of this decade. In
t he case of P fertilizers, India would continue to be an importer, with the
need for imports increasing significantly in the early 1980's.
Industrial Projects Department
July, 1975



AIINEX 2-4
Table 1
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
CAPACITY OF OPEZATINC PLANTS AS OF DEC 1975
('000 tons)
N           P            N + P
I.   Public Sector
FCI
Sindri                                         75          -               75
Nangal                                         80          -               80
Trombay                                        81          36             117
Gorakhpur                                      80           -              80
Namrup                                         45          -               45
Durgapur                                      152          -              127
Sub-total                 513          36             549
FACT
Udyogamandal                                   82          27             109
Cochin I                                      152          -              152
Sub-total                 234          27             261
Rourkela                                      115          -              115
Neyveli                                        75          -               75
Other                                          12          36 1            48
Total Public Sector       949          99           1,048
Joint Sector
GSFC                                          257          57             314
SPIC                                          297          54            351
Madras                                        203          85             288
Mangalore                                     160           -             160
IFFCO - Kalol                                 245          -              245
IFFCO - Kandla                                 -          127             127
Sub-total               1,162         323          1,485
Private Sector
Kanpur                                        207          -              207
Zuari Agro                                    171          42             213
Coremandel                                     96         132             228
DCM                                           142          -              142
Other                                          34         193 1/          227
Sub-Total                 650         367           1,017
GRAND TOTAL             2,761         789           3,550
I/ Single Superphosphate (SSP) and Triple Superphosphate (TSP) units.
SOURCE:  Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals, and Sank
Industrial Projects Departmernt
4ugust 1975



ANNEX 2-4
Table 2
INDIk: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
LIST OF ONJGOING AND PROPOSED PROJECTS
FY of          Capacity in
Commis-          '000 TPY
sioning         N        P
A. Ongoing Projects
1.  Namrup Expansion                             1976/77          152      -
2.  Gorakhpur Expansion                             "1             51       -
3.  Barauni                                         "             152       -
4.  Cochin II                                        "             47      115
5.   hetri                                                         -        90'
6.  Sindri (Rationalization)                     -"                       156
7.  Madras Expansion                                "              -       25
8.  Nangal Expansion                             1977/78          152       -
9.  Trombay IV                                                     75       75
10.  Talcher                                                       228       -
1j.  Ramagundam                                      "             228       -
1Z.  Haldia                                       1978/79          152      75
13.  Sindri (Modernization)                          "             130      -
14.  Bhatinda                                        "             235       -
15.  Panipat                                         "             235       -
16.  IFFCO (Phulpur)                                 t             228       -
17.  Korba                                      Sixth Plan         228      -
B. Proposed Projects
1.  GSFC II                                      1978/79          243      -
2.  Nagarjuna                                  Sixth Plan         228       -
3.  Trombay V                                  Sixth Plan         130      -
4.  Paradeep                                   Sixth Plan         345      300
5.  Mathura                                    Sixth Plan         235       -
6.  Other                                                          51       39
SOURCE: Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals, and Bank.
Industrial Projects Departme.;
.\ugus'. 1975



ANNEX 2-4
Table 3
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
FERTILIZER PRODUCTION FORECAST
(1975/76 - 19130/81)
NITROGEN                                         P205
Capacity    Production    % Capacity            Capacity   Production   % Capacity
(1000 TPY)   (1000 TPY)    Utilization          (1000 TPY)  (1000 TPY)   Utilization
YEAR CAPACITY INSTALLED
A. 1975/76 PRODUCTION
1. Up to December 197. 2/          2,009         1,375            68                  557        430            77
2.  1975/76                          752           225            10                  232         70            30
Total                        2,761         1,600            58                  789        500            63
B.  1976/77 PRODUCTION
1.  Up to December 197h 2/         2,009         1,455            72                  557        L30            77
2.  1975/76                          752           525            70                  232        160            69
3.  1976/77                          602           12            °30                  386        110            28
Total                        1,163         2,100            66                1,175        700            60
C.  1977/78 PRODUCTION
1.  Up to December 1976.2/         2,009         1,610            80                  557        k45            80
2.  1975/76                          752           600            80                  232        175            75
3.  1976/77                          402          -280            70                  386        220            57
6.  1977/78 3/                       683           110            16                   75         10            13
Total                         3,866        2,600            68                1,250        850            64
D.  1978/79 PRODUCTION
1.  Up to December 197 2/           2,009        1,810            90                  557        500            90
2.  1975/76                           752          66o            85                  232        200            86
3.  1976/77                          402           320            80                  186        250            65
4.  1977/78 2/                       683           I0lo           60                   75         40            53
5.  1978/79 2/                       2             220            17                   75         10            13
Total                        5,120         3,ioo            66               1,325       1,000           75
F. 1979/80 PRODUCTION
1. Up to December 1974 -/          2,009         1,810            90                  557        500            90
2. 1975/76                            752          675            90                  232        210            90
3.  1976/77                          402           360            85                  386         300           78
6. 1977/78 3/                        683           680            70                   75         50            67
5. 1978/79 /,                      1,274           60,o           50                   75          30           L0
6. 1979/80 -                         228            55            26                   T          10            25
Total                         ,308         6,000            75                1,36k      1,100            81
F. 1980/81 PRODUCTION
1.  Up to 1976/77                   3,163        2,845            90                1,175      1,060            90
2.  1977/78                          683           565            80                   75         60            80
3.  1978/79                        1,276           775            61                   75         55            73
4. 1979/80 6                         228           135            60                   39         25            64
5. 1980/81 /                          -             -              -                   -          -              -
Total                        5,38          6,300            80                1,364      1,190            89
1/  Capacity and production figures are in 1000 TFY of nutrients.
2/ See Annex 7-2 for break-up by plant.
3/ Two coal based plants (Talcher and Ramagundam) are expected to be commissioned during 1977/78 and a third plant
(Haldia) is to be commissioned during 1978/79. All the other projects exPected to start commercial operation
during 1977/78 through 1979/80 are fuel oil-based plants. Since technologies involving coal and fuel oil as
feedstock are new, the projected capacity utilization for these projects, during the initial 1 to 3 years
operating period, are lower than those used fcr naphtha-based plants.
l, Nagarjuna fertilizef. (Shaw-Wallace) and other small phosphate projects completed 1979/80.
7/ No additional capacity added during 1980/81 as Korba, Trombay 7, Paradeep and Mathura are assumed to be
completed after 1980/81.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
FORECAST OF FERTILIZER CAPACITY, CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION - FISCAL YEAR 1976 TO 1981k'
(1,000 tons)
Potassium-/
Fiscal Year                     Nitrogen (N)                             Phosphate (P205)                      (K20)       NPK                   Total NPK
Ending Mar. 31  Capacity Consumption Production Deficit   Capacity Consumption Production Deficit   Consumption   Ratio   Consumption  Production  Deficit
Actual   1974      2,009      1,835        1,070     765          557        634          390     244          314      5.0-1.8-1    2,783           1,460      1,323
1975     2,009      1,837        1,185      652         557        537          326      211          356     5.1-1.5-1    2,730           1,511      1,219
Forecast 1976      2,761      2,100        1,600     500          789        710          500     210          400      5.0-1.8-1    3,210           2,100      1,110
1977     3,163      2,500        2,100      400       1,175        850          700      150          500     5.0-1.7-1    3,850           2,800      1,050
1978     3,846      3,000        2,600     400        1,250      1,000          850      150          600     5.0-1.7-1    4,600           3,450      1,150
1979     5,120      3,500        3,400      100       1,325      1,200        1,000      200          700     5.0-1.7-1    5,400           4,400      1,000
19803/  5,348       4,000        4,000        0       1,364      1,300        1,100      200          800      5.0-1.6-1    6,100          5,100      1,000
19814/  5,348       4,300        4,300        0       1,364      1,500        1,200      300          900     4.8-1.7-1      6,700         5,500      1,200
NOTE: Figures beyond 1975 are rounded to two significant digits.  N capacity during 1974/75 diffqrs from 1.98 million official GOI figure because the
ammonia capacity, based on 330 stream days per year, is used here rather than the urea capacity based on 330 stream days which is commonly used in
GOI statistics.
1/    Should projects scheduled for commissioning during 1977/78 and onwards be delayed for one year, the production would be as follows (in 1000 TPY):
Production                        Deficit            Total Nutrient (NPK) Deficit
N                P205               N            P205
1977/78                            2,490              840               510            160                  1,270
1978/79                            2,880              960               620           240                   l,560
1979/80                            3,455            1,070               545            230                  1,575
1980/81                           4,020             1,200               280            300                  1,480
2/    Consumption equal imports since all potash is imported.  Forecast consumption of P205 and K20 are derived from the N forecast assuming an NPK
ratio of about 5-1.7-1.
3/    Nagarjuna fertilizer  (Shaw-Wallace) and  other small phosphate projects completed in 1979/80.
4/    No additional capacity added during 1980/81 as Trombay V, Paradeep, Mathura and Korba are assurmed to be oompleted after 1980/81.                              ,..
Industrial Projects Department
May 30, 1975



ANNEX 2-5
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
PROPOSAL FOR 10-YEAR DEMAND FORECAST
1.        A substantial improvement in fertilizer demand forecasting
has to be sought in two directions. The first is the preparation of a demand
forecast that can command a certain measure cf general acceptance and the
second a continuous updating and monitoring of relevant developments with the
aim of annually producing such a ten-year forecast.
2.        At present, there is no general:Ly accepted demand forecast available
in India. Most recent projections are either derived from agricultural output
targets, in particular for cereals, and are therefore fertilizer requirements
data,or are extrapolations of past trends of fertilizer use by using statisti-
cal methods of varying sophistication.
3.        The first type of projection, i.e. requirements figures, is crucially
determined by the fertilizer input/crop output ratio adopted in this "top-down"
procedure. It is known, however, that fertilizer response of crops is not
linear and this should be taken into account in any realistic assessment of
future requirements. A second manor shortcoming of requirements figures is
that, even if the fertilizer input/crop ratios are correct, the output targets
themselves may be unrealistically high. Recent experience has shown that
requirements data have been consistently above actual achievements in ferti-
lizer consurption by large margins.  Planning domestic production and import
policy on the basis of requirements figures therefore involves a high risk of
error, which, given the large sums of money involved, can be extremely costly.
L.        The second type of forecast, i.e. extrapolation of past trends,
involves other risks of the same type. Real consumption data are available
only since 1966-67, that is, for less than ten years.
This is too short for meaningful trend analysis
and even these do not fully allow for inventory variations. Even if "dis-
tribution" figures for earlier years are adjusted, and a longer time series
is used, the period covered must in many ways be considered exceptional.
For example, during the latter half of the! 1960's the spread of high-yielding
wheat varieties provided a powerful stimulus to fertilizer consumption. If
these development: are projectei forward, it is implicitly assumed that a
similar revolutionary change in fertilizer-using technology will occur. Also,
several years during the period were affected by local or national shortages
and, last year, an abrupt price change occurred, which was not accompanied by
a similar change in output prices.  Extrapolations cannot take such features
into account.
5.        A number of additional reasons can be cited why statistical extra-
polations are inappropriate under prevailing Indian conditions. Average
fertilizer application rates are still very low in India and it is consequently
not possible to identify the point on the consumption curve where the nation
may be. In addition, average applications differ widely among the states and
also within the states. Most importantly, however, the Indian fertilizer



ANNEX 2-5.
Page 2
economy does not work in a free market environment but is determined by many
public policy interventions, a large number of which are state responsibility.
This makes for a large diversity of policy environments and this singularly
restricts the usefulness of extrapolations as a method of forecasting effec-
tive fertilizer demand.
6.        Up to now there is no alternative to the use of requirements data
or extrapolations because of shortcomings and gaps in basic data required for
other methods. In particular, very little work has been done on the economics
of fertilizer use at the farm level. Similarly, no attempt has been made to
establish systematically crop response curves by major nutrient or by different
nutrient mixtures. Statistics on irrigation require considerable improvement
if they are to be fully adapted to fertilizer demand forecasting. Fertilizer
stock reporting has to be improved. Many more data gaps and shortcomings can
be mentioned but it is clear that very little improvement in demand forecasting
can be expected unless a concerted and continuous effort is made to improve
the data base for this work.
7.        It also has to be recognized that even the best forecasting methods
will remain inevitably dependent on a large number of judgements. Two objec-
tives should, therefore, be assigned to demand forecasting work. Firstly,
judgements mutt be made as informed as possible.  Secondly, expertise of
various kinds and from various sources should be brought to bear on these judge-
mental factors in order to minimize the risk of gross error.
8.        Terms of reference for the organization of a 10-year fertilizer
demand foresast, together with the base studies required to set it up have
been prepared.
Industrial Projects Department
July 1975



ANlNE( 2- ,
INDIA: FERTILIZE;R INDUSTRY CREDITS
FERTILIZER IMPORTS
1.        Fertilizer imports (Table 1) during the Fourth Plan averaged about
968,000 tons a year in terms of nutrients.  The imports during 197W/75 were
1.6 million tons, including 884,000 tons of N, 281,000 tons of P and 437,000
tons of K. In that year, N imports were equivalent to 48% of total N con-
sumption; and P imports were equivalent to 52% of total P consumption. In
the case of potash, all the needs were met from imports.
2.        According to the original plan, 951,000 tons of N, 365,000 tons of
P and 225,000 tons of K were to be imported in 1975/76. However, because of
the temporary fertilizer glut in the country because of heavy imports in
1974/75, based on overoptimistic demand projections of the Fifth Plan, the
Government of India has curtailed its import program for the current year and
actual imports could be considerably less.
3.        India's fertilizer import policy is centered on meeting the gap
between demand and domestic production. Initially, imports were confined to
products like ammonium sulfate.  However, imports now cover a wide range of
high-analysis products like urea and complex fertilizers. The actual product
mix of imports is largely determined by availability and prices in the inter-
national market. In the absence of a domestic source for potash, its entire
requirement is imported.
4.        Greater emphasis is being given to import of fertilizers in bulk to
reduce the foreign exchange outflow and generate more employment. The phos-
phatic fertilizer industry is largely dependent on imported materials. The
country imports a substantial part of the rock phosphate (about 80%) and
almost the entire quantity of sulfur required for the manufacture of phosphatic
fertilizers. There is need for fuller utilization of domestic sources of rock
phosphates and sulfur from pyrites and other sources, e.g., ore smelters.
5.        A number of institutions are involved in fertilizer importation.
The annual requirements are estimated by the Ministry of Agriculture in con-
sultation with the States and domestic producers. These estimates are subse-
quently reviewed by the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANNEX 2-6
Page 2
Table 1
!T''TA: FEhTITIZEP. ThIDUSTRY _CECDIT
FTrTTlLT7,LlR TM p.r)PY'R
(Q000 nutrien. ton. UnIeCs otherwhse noted)
Total]           Value of Imports
Year  1/          M                                        (Rs 1iilion)(US$ lillion)
1952/53         44.3       -          3,3        47.6        B .6         5.8
1953/51h        19.3       -          7.5        26.8        25.2         3.2
195/55        2.0.0       -        11.1         31.1        30.7         3.9
1955/56         5l.h       -        10.3         61.7        73.3           .4
1956/57         56.8                14 l.8       71.6        77.7        10.0
1957/58        11.1        -        12.8        122.9       158 .8       20.4
1958/59         97.5       -        22.) 4      119.9Q      113.1        1). *5
1959/60        1)2.3       3.8      33.0        179.1       162.9        20.9
1960/61        171.9       0,1       24.8       196.8       164.2        21.1
1961/62        142r9 0,6             30.-h      173.0       1h6. 1       15,7
IQ5)163        229.5       8.0      4 4 .3      "81.8       261.2        33.5
1963/6,)       197.7      12.3       64.1       274.1       213.9        27.1i
196L/65        256.5      12.3      57.2        326.0       2)2.5        31.1
1965/66        376.3      21.8      93.6        491.7       465.3        59.7
1966/67        574.6     129.2     14t3.3       8147.1    1,415.1       181.4
1967/68        866.8    346.7      276.5      1,)490.0    1,933.0       247.8
1968/69        780.1    132.6    165.2        1,077.9     1,629.6       208.9
1969/70        574.4      88.1      99.2        761.7     1,179.h       151.2
1970/71        481.6      32.5    119.0         633.1       79h44       101.8
1971/72        462.5    240.7    267.1          970.3       899.7       115.3
1972/73        691.4    211.h    316.3        1,219.1     1,460.0       187.2
1973/74        660.6    214h0      381.0      1,255.6     2,767.7 *     354.8
197l/75*       884.0     281.0    437.2    12602.2        5,991.3       768.1
1975/76(ESt.)* 951.0     364.7     225.0      1,540.7     8,500.0     1,089.7
1/ April 1 to March 31
2/ Figures for 1952/53 to 1956/57 related to July 1 - June 30.
*   Figures from the IMinistry of Petroleum and Chemicals
SOUCRCE:  FAI, Fertiliser Statistics, 1973/74, Table 7.01, for all years
except 1973/74,    197b/75. ad i975/76.
Tndustrial Projects Department
June 1975



ANNEX 2-7
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
PROPOSAL FOR COMMITTEE ON FERTILIZERS
1.        A large number of institutions are involved in fertilizer production,
importation, distribution and use development in India. This is not surprising
in that the activities that comprise the sector are diverse - including
complex industrial manufacturing prDcesses which use inputs from a number of
other sectors as well as imported feedstocks, sophisticated international
contractual arrangements and large amounts of foreign exchange, substantial
domestic finance and credit facilities, and an. extensive transport and
distribution network, all organized within a complex federal structure where
responsibilities are divided (not a:Lways clearly) between the central and
state governments. Nor is it surpr:Lsing, despite the size and importance of
the fertilizer sector, that the development of institutional arrangements
should be incomplete at this time. The sector has emerged into its current
importance in foodgrain production, and hence its priority status, only within
the past decade. The type of institutional arrangements and the appropriate
role of the various bodies involved has only become clear with experience in
the functioning of the sector. Nevertheless, the relative importance of the
seczor to India's overall economic position, through its contribution to food
production, together with the difficulties that have been encountered in the
past shortage period, suggest the neled for better coordination and a more
structured institutional set-up.
2.        Recent experience has seen extensive activity by various Ministries
to offset the shortage and regulate the use of scarce fertilizer supplies.
While these actions were appropriate in many respects, there were side effects
and interactions which were adverse and unexpected. To a large degree, this
was due to a lack of analysis of the policy options and of their implications,
and the unexpected nature of some of the interactions, both of which might
have been better handled were apDropriate decision making machinery in
existence. Further, many of the side effects had an extended impact because
there was no responsible point of contact or coordinating machinery which
could have ameliorated these effects. In the past year, for example, actions
taken to prevent the emergence of a "black market" had severe effects on the
distribution of fertilizers by domestic manufacturers which not only backed
up supplies in the distribution pipeline, thus causing a storage problem,
but diverted the attention of senior executives away from the more important
concerns of getting capacity utilization, and thus total domestic production,
increased.
3.        In another case, the restriction of the retail margin to 1968 levels
(Rs 80 per ton), caused retailers (both cooperatives and dealers) to be
reluctant to hold stocks. Because of barriers in the way to changing this
regulation, it was necessary for the pool to make special arrangements for
storage within the states. Also, the accumulation of imported stocks has
created a competitive situation, in resnect of the limflted storage capacity
available, between the pool and domestic manafacturers. There is a risk



ANNEX 2- 7
Page 2
that this will adversely affect domestic production. All of these conflicts
could be avoided or resolved if appropriate high level coordinating machinery
existed. Further, the rapid stock buildup of high cost imDorted fertilizer,
delivered without careful scheduling, and often of a complex type not common
in India (nor well suited to Indian conditions), might have been avoided if
a well informed authority existed who could regulate the import procedure
with regard to domestic conditions.
4.        The fertilizer sector also faces fairly daunting problems in the
future.  The current problems of the domestic manufacturers, as manifested
by their low levels of cauacity utilization, warrant continual review at a
high level. M4any of the constraints on the efficiency of the industry
relate to its linkages with other sectors, and to regulations and procedures
imposed by government agencies. These will probably increase as the industry
exoands and competes within the industrial sector for more resources,
including skilled manpower. In pursuing a greater degree of self sufficiency
in fertilizer supplies, an effective Fertilizer Authority or Fertilizer
Commission could be a most constructive influence, provided it was given full
responsibility to coordinate the activities and take decisions relating to
the functions of the existing responsible agencies.
5.        The planning and organization of fertilizer and feedstock imports,
and their coordination with changes in demand and the level of domestic
production also needs full-time attention. India has typically held high
stocks of fertilizer between seasons. This is undoubtedly a sensible safe-
guard in an uncertain supply situation, but carrying such stocks has a cost.
Much lower stocks might be needed if supplies from domestic and overseas
sources were better coordinated and more accurately aligned with likely
demand in the coming season.
6.        The development of domestic feedstock  supplies similarly needs
planning and coordinating with the derived demand for these inputs. This
applies to natural gas and coal production for nitrogenous fertilizer and
the ohosphate rock deposits in Rajasthan for phosohate fertilizers. In
both cases a failure to coordinatesupply and demand could be unnecessarily
expensive.  The development of these supplies requires capital, transoort
facilities and storage capacity, and may substantially influence the
location of future plant development.
7.        Changes in farm technology in the future will place new demands
on the fertilizer sector. New kinds of fertilizers and more accurate
complexes suited to particular regions will be required. There is also the
likelihood of alternative sources of nutrients being developed, including
some from biological and organic sources. These will largely complement
conventional industrial fertilizers, but they will change farmers' needs,
use patterns and demand responses.
8.        The diversity of the policy issues and problems that have con-
fronted the fertilizer sector in the past, and those that are ltkely to
confront it in the future, suggest the importance of the coordinating role



ANNEX 2-7
Page 3
of a Committee on Fertilizer, and the membership it should have. It
also suggests the need for much better informed base upon which to make
decisions.  Much of the information needed is readily available,
though often not compiled or appropriately analyzed.   In other cases, the
necessary data are unreliable or rtot available, in which case there is a
need for base studies and new measurement and reporting systems.  In
particular, there is an apparent need for an acceptable accurately based
demand projection for fertilizer, since no such reliable forecast is
available, and demand effects are fundamental to a large number of the
decisions and issues confronting the sector.
9.        If a Committee on Fertilizer were established, its membership
should be small and include top level administrators and executives able
to take decisions relating to the functions of the agencies associated
with the fertilizer sector and be able to formulate and implement policy
decisions. Since it needs to make decisions about diverse technical
and administrative matters, it might appropriately have a second level
'"Working Committee" with a larger membership and wider representation.
This would oversee the data collection and analysis work. The two would
constitute a permanently established authority which could effectively
guide the development of this important sector, and resolve issues as
they might arise. Terms of Reference for such a body have been prepared.
Industrial Projects Department
July 1975.



ANNEX 2-8
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
FERTILIZER PRICING POLICY
1.        The pricing policy of the Government of India for the Central
Fertilizer Pool has been on a "no profit, no loss" basis. But, in actual
practice, the Pool had, in the past, been making a profit. But in recent
years when world fertilizer prices have been rising rapidly, the Pool has
operated at a loss. For example, in 1973/7h, it lost Rs 601 million (US$77
million) and in 197h/75, Rs 3,000 million (US$385 million).
2.        As a part of the Government's reviaed fertilizer policy in 1965,
manufacturers were aUlowed to fix their own prices for a period of seven
years from the commencement of comercial production. This relaxation, in
practice, is allowed to manufacturers of all fertilizer materials except
three nitrogenoua materials, i.e. urea, calcium ammonium nitrate, and ammo-
nium sulfate which account for about 85% of the total domestic production of
N. For these three grades, pricea are atatutorily controlled. For the
remaining materials, domestic manufacturers are allowed to fix their own prices.
3.        The price of an essential commodity like fertilizers has wide ramifica-
tions as it affects such diverse groups aa farmers, dealers and producers.
The Goverrment has been conacious of the impact on the fertilizer consumer in
particular and has been reluctant to permit any increase in prices of these
fertilizers even if justified by escalation in the costs of raw materials,
equipment, services, etc. Excluding an increase in price in October 1973
to cover           increases in naphtha prices in June and August 1973, the
statutorily controlled prices more or less remained unchanged up to mid-197b
since 1969 (Table 1).
4.        The position, however, worsened late in 1973 with the worldwide
energy crisis. The prices of both raw materials like petroleum feedstock and
finished fertilizers skyrocketed in international markets. Restricted
availability gave a further push to prices of imported fertilizers. As a
result, the cost of imported urea, for example, rose to nearly three times
the statutorily-controlled price at which it was to be sold to the farmer.
The difference, amounting to about two-thirds of the cost, had to be absorbed
by the Government through the operation of the Fertilizer Pool.   The subsidy
which varied with different mqterials was Rs 1,630 (US$209) per ton in the
case of nitrogen in 1974/75. To minimize this burden, the Government of India
substantially increased the statutorily-controlled ceiling selling prices
of urea, ammonium sulfate and CAN with effect from June 1, 197h. At the same
time, the Government also raised Pool selling prices for other fertilizers.
Approximately a year later, GOI reduced the prices slightly with effect from
July 18, 1975. The following table shows the price increases in recent years
for selected fertilizer materials:



ANNEX 2 -
Page 2
Retail Fertiliser 'Prces per-Product Ton
% increase July 18, 1975 % change
1973/74       197ht75         over        onwards        over
Rs    U       Rs  US$        1973/7                    1974/75
Urea               1,050   135   2,000   256          90     1,850   237      -7.5
Ammonium Sulfate    600    77       935   120         56       935   120       0
CAN (25% N)          615    79   1,095   1ho          78     1,015   130      -7.5
DAP                1,335   171   3,005   385         125     2,805   360      -7.0
Potash               670    86   1,220   156          80     1,170   150      -h.0
5.        The new prices are appl:Lcable to the sale of both imported and local
fertilizers. To minimize loss on imported fertilizers for which very high
prices have to be paid but which are marketed at a subsidy, domestic producers
are charged a Pool Price Equalization Levy. In the case of urea, it amounts
to Rs 335 per ton compared to Rs 6310 per ton during 197h/75.
6.        Domestic producers of complex fertilizers  are complaining that
though the prices of such fertilizers are not controlled, the Pool is marketing
such imported fertilizers at prices  at       which domestic producers are not
able to realize a reasonable margin.  This reported inequity in pricing needs
closer scrutiny.
7.        The growth in demand for fertilizer can be achieved only through a
well-planned and expanded extension effort to convince the farmer of the econ-
omic advantage of its use. In this assessment the price of fertilizer relative
to the grain price would play a significant role.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
RETAIL PRICES FM SEjCTED FERTILIZER MATERIAIS
July 18,1975
1967/68 1968/69 1969/70 197d0/71 t971/72 1972/7 1973/7b 197h/75    Onwards
Urea                        840    860      9h3     943    923       959    1050    2000       1850
Amonivuro Sulfate           492    502    539        539     529     549     600     935        935
Calcium Aznmoniun Nitrate    510    510    SILS 555    545  55       565     615    1095       1015
Diammonimn Phosphate       1095    1095    1217    1217    1212    12lx6   1335    3005        2805
Muriate of Potash            it;o    h80    523      523    523      513     670   1220        1170
SOURCES: FAI and Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals.
Industrial Projects Depa:rtment
June 1975
I,3 >x
9 M
coH
cl



ANNEX 2- r
INDIA: FERTILI[ZER IDUSTRY CREDIT
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
1.        The Central Fertilizer Pool,         an agencv under the Yinistry
of agriculture, has become an in-;egral part of the fertilizer distribution
system in India. The Pool originally handled all nitrogenous fertilizers,
both imported and domestically produced, and channelled these through
institutional agencies of State governments. The revised fertilizer policy
of 1965 relaxed this system by allowing domestic fertilizer units to market
their products but the Pool continued to distribute imported fertilizers
excepting potash which is marketed by the Indian Potash Corp.   The Pool
being the major single distributor of fertilizers, its operations have had
a decisive influence on the marketing policies of domestic manufacturers.
2.        The concept of marketing that emerged from the Government
Fertilizer Policy of 1965 had many new facets, one of which was the freedom
in the choice of channels of dist-ribution. Domestic producers began making
use of all available channels, that is, the private trade, cooperatives,
agro-industries corporations and State agencies depending upon their
effectiveness in different States.
3.        However, with the acute shortage of fertilizer materials in the
country since 1972, the Government has been putting pressures on domestic"
producers to channel an increasing proportion of production through
cooperatives and other Government agencies. This has had an unsettling
effect on the distribution network built by domestic producers.
4.        The question of fertilizer distri'bution was considered at length.
by the Quairaishi Committee of the National Commission on Agriculture. The
Committee recommended that the share of cooperatives and other public
agencies in each State may not be less than 50%; it may even range up to
75%; the exact percentage above '0% should be decided hy negotiations
between the manufacturers and State Governments/cooperatives. Where the
percentage share of these agencies is alreaty more than 50%, it should not
be reduced. The Government has rLot yet announced its decision on this
recommendation.
5.        The acute fertilizer shortages starting from 1972 had led to
malpractices such as adulteratiorn, hoarding, overcharging, etc. Faced with
this situation, the Government promulgated many measures.  An order pro-
mulgated on July 1, 1972 under the Essentia:L Commodities Act aims at
ensuring equitable distribution of fertilizer between States in accordance
with supply plans agreed at biannual Zonal Conferences of representatives
of the Central and State Governments and the fertilizer industry.  The
State-wise suonly nlans try to take into account the requirements of
different States, indigeous and imported fertilizer availability, the'
areavise operational capacity of railways, and the domestic producers'



ANNEX 2-9
Page 2
preferred areas of absorption of their production. However, this system
of regulating supplies to and stocks at different States has many drawbacks.
During times of acute fertilizer shortages, States generally under-report
stocks and overestimate their needs. Further, now that the fertilizer
supply has eased because of comfortable stocks, increased domestic production
and substantial imports already in the pipeline, the inclusion of fertilizers
under the Essential Commodities Act needs reconsideration. Representatives
of industry and trade feel that this measure should be repealed.
6.        The widespread shortages in 1972       also led to the introduction
of many controls on the distribution system in various States. The
Fertilizer Control Order of 1957 was declared a "Special Order"t on October 6,
1972. This Order aims at ensuring that the quantity allocated to a State
is consumed in that very State by preventing its unauthorized movement out
of the State. It prohibits inter-Stae movement of fertilizers other than
those authorized by Government agencites. Another measure introduced by the
Government was to link part of fertilizer supplies to a particular State
with grain procurement achieved in that State.
7.        As a result of the above measures, the smooth flow of fertilizers
to consumers has been hampered. In the context of improved fertilizer supply
situation at present, there is need for a more balanced approach to evolve a
workable system to ensure equitable distribution. Many State governments
have relaxed the permit system and restrictions on fertilizer movements.
Transportation
8.        Fertilizer materials, products and raw materials, account for less
than 4% of the freight movement in India.  There are day-to-day limitations
that appear but mostly due to inability to plan rolling stock movement
efficiently rather than overaU availability of wagons. Fertilizer materials
usually move on a priority basis, second only to defense movement and food-
grain, within the port and railway systems. Local or short hauls, less than
150 km, are usually handled by trucks, contracted out to private trucking
companies, and no major problems were reported. Except for isolated cases
discusbed below,inland transport is not a major concern.
9.        Port congestion in India remains a serious problem and fertilizer
raw material movement often is delayed. Where factories, such as Mangalore
and SPIC have their own port facilities, there usually is no problem.
However in the major ports such as Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and Goa, vessels
reportedly wait 3-6 weeks for unloading, and the crude port handling systems
result in spillages and delays.
10.       There are at least two special cases where inland transport is a
limitation; (i) NH  shipments and (ii) meter gauge rail systems.  Ammonia
rail transport is Aew in India (although quite common in US, EuroDe and
Mexico) and only 70 cars (32-ton caDacity each) are available. Tomaximize
use of excess ammonia capacity, about 100 additional tank wagons are needed
to assure movement between IFFCO (Gujarat), Nangal (PunJab), and Trombay
(Maharastra); and on the east coast between Haldia, Durgapur and Barauni.



ANNEX 2-9
Page 3
IFFCO has excess ammonia production that could be converted in two FCI
Dlants if sufficient transoort and storage space were available. Eventually
NH3 movement between Baroda (GSFC) and Trombay will be possible as will
ammonia imports through Trombay and Haldia., The immediate purpose of the
tank wagons would be to maxmize production. But in the long run they
would nrobably be used to ship ammonia to consuming noints, nrincioallv
Punjab, for direct application purposes.  This development has just been
started but in the next 5-lO years significant quantities of ammonia could
be used in this way, particularly as irrigation and cooperative land
management systems are developed.
11.       Meter gauge lines limit transport either in the lower capacity of
the line or in requiring an additional transfer point to a broad gauge line
in several cases.  Udaipur, Rajasthan, where large phosoate  deposits are
being exploited, is a typical case. Here, shipment to almost every major
consumer involves a transfer onto a broad gauge line. Zuari Agro in Goa is
served only by meter gauge and because of a mountainous terrain shipment is
limited to the present plant capacity at best. There are long range Dlans
to convert the entire line to broad gauge but a plan under study would
double the meter gauge along the 30-50 km of steep incline and thereby
relieve the bottleneck. Total freight movement through the port in Goa
is effected, as well as at Zuari.
12.       Difficulties in coal transport have already been noted in the
Energy Sector part of the 197T Economic Report for India. Factories such as
Nangal and Trombay that are far removed from the coal fields will likely
have problems in receiving their requirements. However, these factories are
installing dual coal/fuel oil systems so operation should not be affected by
lack of coal.
13.       Fuel oil and naphtha supplies will not be a problem for most
factories, particularly those located near existing refineries, pipelines
or at port locations. However, the Northwest Refinery at Mathura is likely
to be delayed for lack of financing (and decreased demand forecasts) and
facDories at liangal as weli as the iFrL plants to be erected at Bhatinda and
Panipat could be affected by limited oil transport. A detailed report by
MPC is being prepared on petroletLm/coal movement for the fertilizer industry,
which should permit a more careful analysis of the feedstock supply situation
over the next few years. GOI will be asked to develop and implement a
detailed plan of action to assure feedstock, fuel and product movement for
the fertilizer industry.
14.       The most immediate solution for assuring petroleum feedstock
supplies would be to exDand the IHindustan Petroleum refinery from 3.5 to
6.0 million TPY plus utilize fully the 5.3 million TPY capacity at Burmah-
Shell (both in Bombay) plus possibly erect a product pioeline from Bombay
to Poona from where rail shinment to the Northwest would be easier. This
expansion appears particularly attractive in view of the recent off-shore
oil discovery near Bombay.



ANNEX 2-?
Page h
Dealer Network
15.       In the fertilizer business where consumers are numerous and live
in remote villages, adequate market coverage by dealer networks and dealers'
location close to consuming points are important. Further, they can also
play the role of effective "change agents" for moulding the farmers'
attitude towards fertilizer use.
16.       According to a FAT survey made in 1969/70, there were 6,058
wholesale and 56,867 retail outlets in the country. Thus, over 90% of the
total dealers in the country represented retail outlets. Zonewise, the
South had the largest number of dealers (29%), followed by the East (23%),
the Central Zone (14%), the West (14%) and the North (13%).
17.       In the country as a whole, the percentage share of cooperatives
and private retailers were 56% and )4% respectively in the distribution of
fertilizers. This ratio varied from zone to zone and from state to state.
Whereas the cooperative network was dominant in Central, Northern and Western
Zones, the private retailers outnumbered cooperatives in East and South
Zones.
18.       The cooperatives have historically occupied a dominant place in
fertilizer distribution. Prior to October 1966, the Central Fertilizer
Pool distributed the entire available N fertilizers through cooperatives.
The private retailers handled only superphosphate, mixtures and domestically
produced complex fertilizers. The progressive relaxation of the distribution
system allowing domestic producers to market their produce, however, enabled
them to develop their own retail network.
19.       In the fertilizer trade involving widespread distribution, marketing
costs account for a significant portion of the retail price. The marketing
costs involve costs of transportation, handling, storage, overheads,
promotional expenses, and retailers' net profit. The overall marketing and
distribution costs vary widely from onLe part of the country to the other and
transportation cost forms the largest single element of marketing costs.
20.       The retail marketing margin is fixed by the Government.  This
margin was not raised for the last seven years in spite of the fact that
transoort costs, interest rates, and the amount of finance required to
stock a given quantity of fertilizer has more than doubled since then. It was
only in July 1975 that the Government finally raised the margin from Rs 80
to Rs 115. Studies by the National Cooperative Development Corporation
(NCDC) and FAI indicate that the margin should be between Rs 220 and Rs 240
per ton for fertilizer retail business to be profitable. As a result of the
current low margin, dealers and cooperatives are now reluctant to hold stocks.
This has exacerbated the storage oroblem at the factory level. To overcome
this problem, the Central Pool is stocking fertilizer in several States.
21.       In a country as vast as India with only a few supply points (ports
and factories), the main burden of movement of fertilizers has fallen on the
railways. This is done partly through assigning priority for fertilizer
movement and oartly by forward planning of movement.



ANIEX 2-9
Page 5
22.       A system of quarterly planning of fertilizer movement by rail
has been introduced to rationalize movement and to optimize utilization
of the limited availability of rail capacity. This planning has helped
considerably in improving the distribution of fertilizer by rail. Where-
ever rail transportation is not available, domestic producers and the
Pool have to use the more expensive road transport.
23.       A recent FAI study shows that about three-fourths of the total
fertilizer distributed in the country moves by rail, and such transportation
accounts for roughly 3% of the total commercial haulage by the railways.
The railway share in ferbilizer distribution is forecast to drop slightly
to 67% by the end of the Fifth Plan through a coordinated rationalization
of rail and road movement of fertilizers.
24.       The shorter hauls of secondary movement of fertilizers from
major distribution points to retailers are more economical by road because
of the following factors: (1) accessibility of interior areas is better
by road than by rail; (2) road transport saves transhipment and reduces
handling cost and losses; (3) speedier and safer delivery of the product
is ensured; (h) small quantities can be moved by road more economically;
(5) loss due to pilferage, spillage, etc. is considerably less; (6) road
transport is comparatively cheaper for shorter hauls; and (7) trucks are
easy to hire and they ensure point-by-point deliveries. Transportation in
tfll truck loads instead of in small quantities, and the planning for
return cargo will reduce the freight charges.
25.       The longer load  distances from the supply points  not only entail
higher freight per unit of material but also affect timely deliveries.
26.       Further, provision of proper and adequate warehousing facilities
at dealer level lends viability to his operations by enabling him to stock
the product in time. This aspect deserves greater attention than has been
the case hitherto. In addition, there is an imperative need to (a) upgrade
the quality of warehouses used for fertilizer stocking so that they meet
certain minimum standards; and (b) train dealers both at wholesale and
retail levels in scientific storage facilities.
Industrial Projects Department
July 1975



ANNEX 2-10
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
CREDIT SITUATION
1.        Credit in the fertilizer business is needed at two stages in addition
to meeting the working capital requirements of manufacturers: (a) distribution
credit for stocking fertilizers at various points; and (b) production credit
for farmers to enable them to invest in costly inputs until the harvest is
sold. Although cooperatives are the major organized source of agricultural
finance, they cover only a small section of the total rural population. The
share of commercial banks for agricultural credit continues to be relatively
meagre probably due to the banks, unwillingness to enter into high risk areas.
Their lending procedures involve delays in clearance, emphasis on provision
of security, and high margins on credit advanced.
2.        The Bill Market Scheme introduced by the Government in November 1970
is a useful mode of providing distribution credit. The scheme seeks to promote
the use of short-term trade bills of exchange as instruments of credit linked
with transactions of sale and purchase. Under this scheme, instead of financing
the dealers entirely against the stocks of fertilizers, the banks could also
discount the bills of exchange covering sale and purchase of fertilizers. The
banks need to encourage this scheme by developing additional discounting houses
and by offering more liberal bill discounting facilities.
3.        The Government of India established the Credit Guarantee Corporation
of India on April 1, 1971 to provide an additional incentive to the commercial
banks to step up their assistance to agriculture/fertilizer industry. Under the
scheme a guarantee cover up to a specified limit of the loans advanced by banks
for fertilizer dealers with a turnover of Rs 500,000 (US$64,100) is available
to banks. This has reduced the risk element in lending to small dealers in
fertilizer trade. However, with the sharp increase in fertilizer prices since
June 1974, there is a need to review the credit guarantee scheme.
4.        The role of cooperatives in providing credit has increased over the
years. However, a disquieting feature of cooperative credit has been the
mounting overdues at various levels. The major causes of overdues are lack of
will and discipline among cultivators to repay loans, defective lending policies
pursued by cooperatives, apathy of management to take quick action against
recalcitrant members, and absence of a favorable climate for repayment of
cooperative dues. In order to increase the flow of funds to the fertilizer
trade and ensure their effective utilization, the working of cooperative credit
societies needs to be strengthened.
5.        The credit squeeze introduced by the Government in 1974 to control
inflation in the country      reduced the available funds for agricultural
financing, dampening the demand for key inputs like fertilizers. This situation
is now being rectified by loosening credit.



AN4EX 2-10
Page 2
6.        Starting from 1974, the Government introduced a permit system under
which the cooperatives were to sell fertilizers only on credit and against
permits obtained from local government officials. The aim of the permit
system was to ration supplies ezvenly among farmers, and also to prevent sales
to "black marketeers". But theb administration of the system has proved to be
extremely difficult. Many farmers have been unable to obtain permits to buy
fertilizers. There is strong evidence from field studies by FCI and National
Council of Applied Economic Research that the permit system suppressed
fertilizer consumption growth Rmore than price increases. Because of wide-
spread dissatisfaction with the permit system, almost all States have relaxed
the system, though it has not been given up.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANNEX 3-1
INDIA:FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT OF FERTILIZER INThJSTRY
CHRONOLOGY OF FERTILIZER MANUFACTURE
Total No. of
Approx. Year of       Fertilizer Material        Factory which first  Units Operating
First Manufacture         Manufactured              Manufactured        (as on 1-4-74)
1906              Single superphosphate      E.I.D. Parr,; Ranipet         30
1906              Fertilizer mixtures                                     661
1933              Ammonium sulphate:                                       12
a. by product of        a. Tata Iron & Steel Co.       7
steel industry
1941                b. Using sulphuric       b. Mysore Chemicals &
acid                    Fertilizers                 2
1947                c. gypsum as raw         a. FACT, Alwage                4
material
1959              Ammonium sulphate nitrate FCI, Sindri                     1
Urea                      FCI, Sindri                   13
Ammonium chloride         New Central Jute Mills
Co.) Varanasi                1
1960              Ammonium phosphate         FACT, Alwaye                   2
1961              Calcium amonium nitrate  FCI, Nangal                      2
1965              Nitrophosphate             FCI, Trombay                   1
1967              Diammonium phosphate       Gujarat State Fertilizer       1
1968              Triple superphosphate      Dharamsi Morarji               1
Urea ammonium             Coromandel Fertilizers         1
phosphate
NPK complexes             FCI, Trombay                   3
Units manufacturing more than one end-product are correspondingly
accounted for more than once in the last column given above.
SOURCE: Fertiliser Association of India



ANNEX 3-1
Page 2
End-productwise c.apweirr installed before and dirring plan periods 1906 to 1974-75 (April-March)
Before     IPan    I11 Plan    III Plan              Annual Plans              ,                   Fourth Plan                      I Ye3r of
First Plan   951-52    1956-57    1961-62  1                                                                                       j Fifth
Fertitiser            1906-1951 I   to         to         to                           I ,                                                                 Plan
1955-56    1960-61    1965-66 1 1966-67 I 1967-68 I1968-69    1969-70 I 1970-71   1971-72    1972-73    1973-74  1974-75*t
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I _  _ _ _   _I  _  _ _  _  _i__      _  _  _ _  _  _              I                                                                 I
.m.....,.,.,.,   tonnas of mate rial.
Ammonium sulphate            254,730  355,000       53,SOO       -       28.000    186,61(    100,000        -        -          35,000*     6,600     6,600*       -
(20.6°,' N)                (6)      (1)           (2)                  (1)        (2)        (1)
CumulSttive total            254,730  609,730      663,530   662,930r   690,930    S70,830   970.830      970.830   970,830 --932,5106   939,110   945,710    945.710
(6)     (71)         (9)         (8)       (9)       (10)       (I11)        (11)      (1)        ()        (12)      (12)        (12)
Urea (46% N)                    -        -          23,470   253.000        -       280,50     474.320      100.000     -       210,000      -      1000,000   1656,000
(I)       (2)                   (2)        (3)       450,000                (1)                 (3)          (3)
(1)
Cumulative total                -        -          23,470   276.470    276.470    556.970C  1031,290    1581.290  1581,290  1780,420¢  1780,420  2780,420   4436,420
- (1)        (3)       (3)        (5)        (8)          (9)       (9)       (10)      (10)      (13)        (16)
Ammonium sulphate
nitrate (26% N)                 -        -         121,920   121.920    121,920    121.92C.    121,920      121,920   121,920    50,0006    50,000    50,000      50,000
(1)       (1)        MI         (I)        (I)          (I)       (I)        (I)       (I)       (I)         (I)
Calcium ammonium                -        -         380.000   297.000        -          -         -         240.000'      -         --         -        -            -
nitrate (25% N)                                    (I)        (1)
Cumulative total                -        -          380,000   677.000   677.000    617.000?, 560,000(2    800,000   800,000   800.000    800,000   800,000    800,000
(1)        (2)        (2)        (2)         (2)         (2)       (2)       (2)        (2)       (2)         (2)
Ammoniutn chloride            . -         -          9,000'   17.000        -          -          -           -          -         -          -        --           -
(25%, N)                                         (1)      40.640
Cumulative total                _         _          8,000-   65.640      65,640     65,640     65,640      65.640    65,640    64.750#    64,750    64,750       64,750
(1)       (2)        (2)        (2)        (2)         (2)       (2)        (2)        (2)       (2)         (2)
Single superphosphate        492.230     -         281.060   345.440    108.530      22,500       -          -           -         -         9,000   116,990'       -
(16% w.s.P,O,)            -(11)                   (6)        (8)       (2)        (1)                                                    (1)       (1)
Cumulative total             492,230  492,230      773,290  1118.'30   1227.260   1249.760   1249.760    1249.760  1249.760  1249,760   1258,760  1375.750   1375,750
(iI)     ('1)         (17)       (25)      (27)       (28)       (28)         (28)      (28)      (28)       (29)      (29)         (20)
'Pelofos' (18%  PfO.)           -        -            -          -         -           -          -          -           -         -          -        45,000      45.000
(1)         (I)
Triple superphosphate           -        -            -          -         -         27,00f'      -.         -           -         -          -         -        20i).00
(45°-,; P,O,)(',                                                                                                                                               ()
Cumulative total                -        -            -         __         -         27,000     27.000      27.000    27,000    27,000      27,000    27.000     227,000
(1)   (1)    (')      (1)       ~~~~~~~~ ~~~(1)  (')  (')        (2)
Amtnoniam phosphate             -        -          16.500   118,500       -           -          -          -           -      46.000'       -        -            -
sulphate                                          (1)     51.4S0
(1)
Cumulative total                -        -          16,500   186,480   186,480   16,450    186,480        186.4S0   186,480   222,980q'  222,980   222,980    222.980
(1)        (2)       (2)        (2)        (2)         (2)        (2)       (2)        (2)       (2)         (2,
Dmiamnoniumn phospbate          -        -            -         -          -       108,0(()   108,000      108.000   108,000   108,000    108.000   108,000      108,01)0
I(18-46-0)                                                                         (')        ('i           (')       (') _     (')        (1)       k')         (')
Nitrophosphate                  -        -            -      270.000       -        180.0(l31g 180.000     1S0O0O   I80,000   180,003  110,000   180,000         1',0,000
(')            ~~~ ~ ~~~~(')  (')       (')       (')       (')        (I)       (I)         (!)
Urea ammonium phosphate                  -            -         -          -       260.00     260.000      260,000   260,030   260,000    260,000   260,000    260,000
()   (1)         (0)        (I)       (I)        il)        (I)         ()
NPK complex fertilisers        -         -            -         -                                - -         -                  360.000'      -          -       375.500
ti)                              11)
Cumulal,ve total                                -         -           -                                -           -           :60,000    360,000   360,000    735,5(02'
* Expansion.
.- On-a.ns of chargeoverafgmd..rom16-13-0to N-2o-.                                                        SOURCE:   F.A.I.
O   On a-coont of change over or g,.dc of FCI, Nan.a1 ard HSL Rourkela f. m 20.5, N to 25% N.
I Onc by-product A S factory la, ciosod do a. d-rir. ;hit pcriotd.
2   O.e s-nitlic A,S rtctory as- closed doe- during y.i reiod.
3   Constii:r graade 17-17-17 and g-ad, :4-28S14.
4   Cors:itume, mstd  5e-26-26, 12-3t-16 and :4-36-12.
+   Not mean, far ogricu!u:ol rpr-,oses.
Anticipated by 31.3.5.
(I   The heur, in brackets indicate the numbee Or mnnufrturing units.
i   Due to asing of phant. mhe capocities of tome units have bees renited.
Industlial Projects Departaent
July 1975



ANNEX 3-2
12DIA - FERTILIZER INILJSTRY CREDIT
DESCRIPTICIN OF FERTILIZiEt CORPORATION OF INDIA (FCI)
4, LxitinY      eri     Divisions of FCI
..        FCI is the largest fertilizer company in India with six  operating
-inits, plus the Planning and Development Division, which are described below.
Production capacities in these operating units as well as FCI's new projects
are .summarized in T.le.  Historical performance of the -operating divisions
is ;>iven in Annev 3-3 Capacity utilization has averaged about 66$ for nitro-
gen and about b3% for phosphate over the past four years (1971-1975). Gorakhpur
and Nangal have had relatively little difficulty (except recent power shortages)
and have consistently operated at high efficiency. Sindri and Durgapur have
continuing operating problems and operate considerably below desirable levels
of capacity utilization. Trombay has showed good performance in recent years
with the net profit reaching about Rs 106.5 million (nearly US$14 million) in
1975.
2.        The overall performance of FCI has been relatively poor.  As indi-
cated above, the performance of its individual units vary widely for complex
reasons and these are discussed below.
Trombay (laharashtra State)
3.        The existing Trombay plant has an annual design capacity of 240,o0o
tons of NPK fertilizer (15-15-15); 99,000 tons of urea; and 30,000 tons of
methanol.  Intermediate products include ammonia, nitric acid and sulfuric
acid. In addition, some minor quantities of industrial chemicals such as
argon, concentrated nitric acid, sodium nitrate and ammonium bicarbonate are
produced.  The Trombay complex includes necessary facilities such as mainte-
nance shops, storage, utilities, offices and townships; it is near to the
Bombay port and has good rail and road connections.  An expansion of the
Trombay plant to add 355,000 TPY nitrophosphate production capacity has just
been commenced and will be completed by mid 1977. MA approved a credit of
US$33 million for this project and other works in June 19,.
Gorakhdur (Uttar Pradesh State)
4.        This plant, which produces urea only, began production in early
1968. Gorakhpur was financed with a Japanese credit plus funds from GOI and
was built by Toyo (Japan) at a total cost of about US$145 million. This cost is
considered high due to imbalances and excessive spare capacity of some equipment.
The plant units at Gorakhpur are ammonia and urea, with low-grade naphtha serving
as the feedstock. The ammonia plant is designed to have two streams, each with
a capacity of 175 TPD of ammonia. Partly because the plant uses electrically-
driven reciprocating compressors, it has a relatively high operating cost and
high dependence on outside power. The project operates well and can easily
exceed 100% of design capacity on a daily basis. Output has been seriously
impaired by power supply problems; were the reliability of power supply to improve
in Uttar Pradesh, the performance of this plant should steadily increase.



ANNEX 3-2
Page 2
5.        In January 1972,  IDA approved a US$10 million credit to Gorakhpur
to increase its capacity from 180,000 TPY to 314,000 TPY of urea by 1975.
Nangal (Punjab State)
6.        The Nangal. plant produces heavy water and calcium-ammonium nitrate
(CAN) fertilizer containing 25% N, using a process involving intensive use of
power. Initial production began in 1961 with a rated capacity of 80,000 TPY
nitrogen. Power supply has been severely restricted, thus limiting production
to 60-70% of capacity.  Ammonia and urea capacity expansion is underway,
utilizirg ar. IDA credit of US$58 million.  Included in the expansicn pr^gresrm
is a provision to reduce Nangal's heavy reliance on power by usirng a ne-w
process in the old plant.
Namrup (Assam State)
7.        The Namrup factory produces urea ancl amnonium sulfate.  The plant
started commercial production in January 1969 but has not achieved full pro-
duction so far. The factory has small process units for ammonia, urea and
ammonium sulfate. A detailed evaluation of Namrup has not been made but it is
doubtful if the existing facilities can ever be profitable without major
modifications. The plant is being expanded to produce 330,000 TPY of urea, with
the new units expected to go on stream in 1975. As the total market for ferti-
lizer in Assam is limited,most of the increased production must be shipped to
the neighboring States of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.
Sindri (Bihar State)
8.        The Sindri plant produces ammonium sulfate, double salt, urea and some
industrial cheriicals.  Most of the axisting production facilities are old and ineffi-
cient, involving high maintenance costs; and the plant has an excessively
high employment of about 8,700 persons. It operates at about 55% capacity,
with major causes for low capacity utilization being plant and equipment failures;
and the high cost of gypsum feedstock for ammonium sulfate is also responsible
for the plant's operating losses. Sindri's financial performance has deteriorated
sharply in recent years and it is a major reason for FCI's poor financial results.
A rationalization program is underway for additional production facilities for
phosphoric acid and triple superphosphate (TSP), and reduction in ammonium sulfate
production costs.  In addition) a modernization program is unde'rway to increase
urea production. Much of the existing plant will be retired when the new
ammonia/urea project comes into operation.
Planning and Development (P&D) Division (Bihar State)
9.        The P&D Division is the engineering and research and development arm
of FCI. It is located adjacent to the Sindri plant in Bihar. It has a total
staff of about 3,200 with about B0o engineers and designers working directly
on engineering, planning and technical service functions for FCI units. In
addition, the division develops and manufactures catalysts for use in ammonia
plants and has extensive pilot plant: and research development facilities. The
catalyst manufacturing program is technically sound and some catalysts have



ANNEX 3-2
Page 3
been sold for use in fertilizer plants in India. Over the next few years as
the catalyst consumption grows in the country, FCI catalyst production should
become profitable.
10.       The P&D Division has several license agreements with international
process engineering firms, the most notable being: Montecatini-Edison, Italy,
for ammonia and urea; Lurgi, Germany, for rectisol C02 removal; Shell, the
Netherlands, for fuel oil gasification; Koppers, Germany, for coal gasifica-
tion; and Nissan, Japan, for phosphoric acid. Licensing arrangements for
other process technology are obtained when needed for other projects. The
Division has developed its own process know-how for ammonium sulfate,
ammonia synthesis gas purification and some others. For all of the present
ammonia-urea plants under implementation, the Division has been responsible
for engineering, design and project schedule as well as procurement based on
process design packages from variou-z licensors. Where suppliers' credits are
involved, the foreign process collaborator handles most procurement from out-
side India.
Project implementation responsibilities under the F,I's organizaTion
in the past have not been clearly defined and, as a result, the completion
of a number of projects has been delayed in some cases us to three years.
Except for the Nangal and Trombay IV projects there have not so far been
project managers for each project with overall responsibility; *nstead the
function has been divided between a site project manager anlointed by and
directly responsible to the General Manager of the particular works operating
unit and a project coordinator appointed by and directly responsible to the
General Manager of P and D division.  Under this syszem pro-res;3 of the work at
the site has been under the control of the lWorks General Manager whereas P and
D division has been responsible for maintaining the project schedule. This
arrangement is now being streamlined however and in the ease of the Sindri
ammonia/urea project the project coordinator will be responsible through the
P and D General Manager to the Managing Director while the site project
manager will be responsible to the Projects Director.   This arrangemernt is
expec-ted to result in improved coordination and more expedient decision making.
The general engineering capability of P and D division              is sound.  Typical
design drawings, specifications and general projects records for a nulmber of
ongoing projects were reviewed and appeared to be   of a high standard.
B. FCl's Expansion Program
12.      FCI will be one of the world's largest fertilizer producers after its
expansion program is completed in 19759. It has nine major projects (including
three expansions) under implementatior. at present.  The capacities             and
expected comnissioning dates are given in Table 1. All these projects are
being executed by the P&D Division of FCI with the assistance of various process
and engineering firms.
1g.       Durgapur, Namrup (expansion) and Barauni are similar plants based on
process designs obtained from Montecatini-Edison (Italy), and include process
units for ammonia and urea. These projects are being financed with Italian
credits and funds from GOI. Haldia (capacity: 152,000 TPY of N and 75,000 TPY
of P205) will be producing both urea and nitrophosphates. The Sindri Rationali-
zation Project includes a triple superphosphate (TSP) unit and facilities for



ANNEX, 3 -2
Page Li
sulfuric and phosphoric acid production. H aldia is the first of the fuel oil
based ammonia plants under construction with an ammonia plant capacity of 600 TPD
and facilities for the production of methanol. The ammonia is converted partly
to urea and is utilized partly for the production of nitrophosphates. The facili-
ties include a soda ash plant based on the use of by-product chalk. The knowhows
used are from Shell, Lurgi, Technimoia; Stami'carbon, Nissan and Polimex.  The
project is scheduled for completion by 1977. Much of the engineering for it is
domestic, including a subcontract with FACT. GOI is providing all funds including
foreign exchange from Belgian and Bulgarian suppliers' credits.
14.      Talcher and Ramagundam as well as the Korba plant are larger
ammonia-urea units with ammonia to be produced by coal gasification.
Montecatini-Edison is the major engineering collaborator with additiora]
assistance from Koppers (Germany), Lurgi (Germany), and Technoexpori-; (Czechoslovakia)
Coal gasification is a relatively unproven technology in large commercial plants
and the projects are ambitious undertakings. They are in the early design stage
and, because of anticipated design problems, are not expected to be completed
before 1977.
15.      All the new projects would be financed about half by equity and half
debt. All expenses including interest during construction on new projects are
being capitalized so that FCI's profit performance will not be affected by these
projects until production starts. Three projects under construction - Durgapur,
Namrup (expansion) and Barauni - have experienced about three-year delays in
implementation, primarily because of design, procurement, and project management
problems. Work on the IDA-financed Gorakhpur and Nangal Expansion Projects
started in 1972 and 1973 respectively. Agreements on procurement between GOI and
IDA are designed to prevent delays on these projects.



ANNEX 3-2
Page 5
Table 1
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
A. FCI EXISTING UNITS AND PLANNED EXPANSION PROGRAM
Year of
Capacity      Commis-
Name                           Location                 Products                   '000 TPY       sioning
N  P205
Existing Units
Trombay                        Maharashtra          Urea, Nitrophosphate           81   36         1966
Gorakhpur                      Uttar Pradesh        Urea                           80              1968
Nangal                         Punjab               Calcium Ammonium Nitrate       80              1961
Namrup                         Assam                Urea, Ammonium Sulphate        45              1962
Sindri                         Bihar                Urea, Ammonium Sulphate,
Ammonium Sulphate Nitrate  75               1952
Durgapur                       West Bengal          Urea                          152   _          1974
Total                     513   36
Projects Under Construction
Namrup (Expansion)             Assam                Urea                          152              1977
Barauni                        Bihar                Urea                          152              1977
Gorakhpur (Expansion)          Uttar Pradesh        Urea                           51              1977
Sindri (Rationalization)       Bihar                Triple Superphosphate              156         1977
Trombay IV                     Maharashtra          Nitrophosphate                 75   75         1977
Nangal (Expansion)             Punjab               Urea                          152              1978
Ramagundam                     Andhra Pradesh       Urea                          228              1978
Talcher                        Orissa               Urea                          228              1979
Haldia                         West Bengal          Urea, Nitrophosphate          152   75         1979
Korba                          Madhya Pradesh       Urea                          228 1*
Sindri (Mdernization)          Bihar                Urea                          130 _            1979
Total                   1,548  306
Projects in Planning Stage
Trombay  V                     Maharashtra          Nitrophosphate, Urea          130               *
Paradeep                       Orissa               Urea, NPK Compounds           345  300          *
Total                     475  300
GRAND TOTAL                   2,536  642
* Firm estimates not available.
1/ Net addition.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1974



ANNEX 3-3
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
FCI 'S RECENr OVERALL PRODUCT:ION PRFDtORKANCE
1.       FCI's overall production capacity in terms of nutrients is given
below together with the actual production of 1973/74 and the expected pro-
duction for 1974/75. The resulting capacity utilizations and all-India figures
are also given:
1973/7 1            1 974/75
Operating      Capacity  Production    %      Production    %
Division      (000 tons) (000 tons)  Utiliz.  (000 tons)  Utiliz.
Nitrogzen
-Sincri           75 1/      70       71%         67       68%
Nangal            80         62       78%          38      48%
Gorakhpur         80         64       80%          69      86%
Trombay           81         614      79%          66      81%
Naiurup           45         36       80%          36      80%
Durgapur         1 5Y     -             %_I        12       6%
PCI Total      513        296       58%         288      56%
All India    2,009      1,070       53%       1,185      590/
Phosphate
rro_mbUay        _36         32       89%         30       83%
PCI Total        37        _732        BX          30      3
All India        557        390        70%        326      59
1/ Design capacity is 99,000 TPY of N but has been downgraded because of old
equipment.
2/ Durgapur,although mechanically completed earlier ,was officially
commissioned only in 1974/75.
2.       While for 1973/74. the production performance was still better
than the industry average, FCI's overall capacity utilization for 1974/75
is expected to be onlY 56%. This poor performance is mostly due to the very
low production at Durgapur, which has been umder commnissioning for a number
of years and which will from 1974/75 onwards be treated as a regular operating
division of FCI. The capacity utilization in 1974/75 is further depressed
by the reduction of power availability at Nangal which is expected to show
a utilization of only 48%. Sindri's performance will be about the same as
last year. Gorakhpur, Trombay, and Nanrup will show utilizations of 80%
and higher. An analysis made by FCI indicates that the low capacity utilization
can mainly be explained by the low equipment performance at Durgapur and
Sindri and the non-availability of power.



ANNEX 3-3
Page 2
FCI's Recent Financial Performance
3.       For the year ending March 31, 1975 PCI is expecting only a
marginal profit. The unit-wise breakdown is given below:
(Rs milUons)
1973/74     1974/75
Sindri                         (72)         (73)
Nangal                          43          30
Trombay                         79         156
Nanaup                          (3)         10
Gorakhpur                       (1)         21
Durgapur                                    7
Less--Interest                  -_42
--Deferred Revenue          --1/         4
Net Profit (before adjust-      -
ments for prior years)          6_          23
1/ Allocated to individual units.
Despite the fertilizer price increases during 1974/75 the financial position
of PCI has not improved, basically because of the continued financial strain
of the Sindri unit, the low production of Nangal, and the cash drain at
Durgapur. So far, Durgapur expenditures have been capitalized but the board
of FCI will most probably, decide to put the official comnissioning date
down as June 1, 1974 and will charge all revenues and expenditures from that
date onwards to FCI's income statement. Durgapur will constitute a very
heavy burden which, together with the anticipated losses at Sindri, will
prevent FCI fran showing any significant financial improvenent in the near
future.
4.       Concerning the financial ratios which have to be met by PCI,
it was agreed between IDA and PCI at the time of the Sindri negotiations
that FCI will give IDA all the necessary information and recalculate the
current ratio, and debt service coverage for the last three years in
accordance with a methodology which has been mutually agreed upon.



ANNEX 3-3
Page 3
FCI's Financial Future
5.        For the next four to five years FCI's financial position will
be characterized by the very large expansion program the financial require-
ments of which will by far exceed the internal cash generation. There is
an overall squeeze on India's national budget, and allocations to FCI to
cover its project financing riequirements are not likely to be provided with
sufficient timeliness, thus lack of financing is likely to hold up the
speedy execution of FCI's projects. This situation is further affected by
FCI's difficulty to estimate realistically its own internal cash generation
and its overall fund requirements. In the past, FCI has consistently under-
estimated its fund requirements and overestimated its own cash generation,
particularly for periods exceeding the one-year buidget horizon. Many of the
underlying reasons are external to FCI, like the lack of power at Nangal
or the extremely high escalation of equipment prices, but the extent of the
over-or underestimation and the rapid and significant change in the forecasts
indicate that financial planning at FCI is basically a year to year affair
and lacks the discipline required by a private sector company that does not
have the easy access to the Government budget as FCI had in the past. This
has been discussed with FCI and the Government, and it has been impressed
upon them that they should take the utmost care in preparing five year
forecasts which FCI will from now on prepare in March every year.
6-.-- --    The size of FCI's operations, with six operating divisions and
about 14 major expansion or new projects and the very poor communication
facilities further complicate efficient financial control. Since quite
some time it has thererore been suggested to split FCI into a number of
smaller companies, which would at least help to strengthen the financial
management and would make strict financial control a more manageable task.
7.       FCI has estimated its fund requirements for all its ongoing projects
and a    rough estimate of its own cash generation which are summarized
below. Details are shown in the supervision reports for FCI in the Sindri
and Nangal projects.



ANNEX 3-3
Page 4
(Rs Million) ($ Million)
Fr           Fr
1976 - 1979  1976 - 1979
ProJect Funds Required
Local                                  6,771          868
Foreign                                2,560          328
Total                                9,331        129
E ected Financing
Lcal fr
--Internal Cash Generation               375           48
--Government Budget
Allocations                         6.396           820
Total                                id-ill        -759
Foreign from
--Credits already allocated            1,,498          192
--Unidentified Foreign Exchange
Sources                             1,062          1 6
Total                                9.33         1,196
8.       As can be seen from the above, the bulk of the local funds has to
be provided through budget allocations from the Governments with only about
4% coming from FCI's own internally generated funds. While the Government
and FCI maintain that the allocation of funds have not and will not hold up
projects, it is likely that during the bargaining process of FCI's budget
preparation, less fundo than required will be made available. A case in
point is the 1975/1976 budget, where FCI figures that it needs a total of
Rs 2,260 million for project financing, but where the budget at present
indicates only Rs 2,140 million or 95% of the required amount.
9        The foreign exchange required to continue the ongoing investment
program has not been tied up yet and about h4% of the total foreign exchange
has still to be found and/or allocated. The bulk of the foreign exchange
still to be found would be needed for Korba (Rs 312 million) and Trombay V
(Rs 390 million). The future of both of these projects is quite uncertain,
and it isiclear, that a temporary stop on these projects would significantly
lower FCI's foreign and local fund requirements. This would enhance the
chances, that the other projects, competing with Trombay V and Korba for
the same scarce local and foreign funds, vould not be delayed by a lack of
funds.  It is already clear that the Governmuet and FCI have decided on a
go-slow for the Korba project.
Industrial Projects Department
February 1975



INDIA   FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT                          -        3'
PRODUCTIVI'TY IN THE
INDIAN FERTILISER INDUSTRY!:`
Abstract
Thle fertiliser plant perforrnaince is dependenit cn scueral importaint factors like age, size, feedstock,
process, produicts, utility facility, etc.
The overall produictivity of Indian jertiliser industrty is not satisfactory as compared to that in the
developed regions, althoutgh efficiencies of some of the new plants are as efficient as, if not better
thtan, simiilr plants in thje developed coutntries.
The productivity and the reasons for low producticn in the Indian fertiliser indtustry htave been aIa-
lysed according to the above mentioned factors. We trust this analysis teill facilitate a more exhaus-
tive treatment of thle subject and throw up gutidelinies for future action.
It is generally said that the pro-    We reckonl that for a more pur-  stabilsed during the period  under
ductivity in the Indian Fertiliser In-  poseful analysis, it would be useful  review.
dustry is low.  But verv rarely, it to categorise the existing plants into
ever, has this observation; been sub- various groups which would lend to  Table 2earalo: Io  ththat the  in
stantiated bv anv meaningful com-  each unit therein certain amount of             clearly sows   a   e pro
parison with conditions obtaining in  similariht, and then analyse the pro-  duction performance  of the plants
establishied before 1960 is distinctly
the fertiliser industry in other parts ductivitv groupwise. We have split lower than the others In each of the
of the world. Such a comparison has  the existing tunits irnto the following  next two groups, while there is con-
been made more difficult by lack of  six groups, according to:             siderable disparity between the per-
ready availability of suitable data.
Neverteless,we in  he Feriiser (i) age,                       formances  of various  plants, with
NevertAelessn  we in the Fertiliser    .. s                             sonle plants in the third category
Association  of India P ave embarked    (ii) s tze     s                   (i.e., those set up between 1965-70)
upon this task;. Presented bere is a    (iii) feedstocl; used             faring worse than the older plaLits,
critical analysis based on the limited  (iv) process adopted,             there is no denying that the average
data that is currently available.       (v) product mix                    performance of the latter plants ap-
It is common knowledge that in                                          pears to be much superior to die
India wve have a heterogeneous mix          r elative to ifil oveias  opert  earlier plants.
of plants each having its ov-n charac-        tive t       o       p           The  average  perfornance  for
teristics. Units vary in age, some of                                      1972-73 of the plants established be-
these are well over 25 vears old. Our    (vii) plaits having captive power  tweein 1960 and 1965 works ciut to
domestic plants are based on dif-           source.                        63 per cent and that for 1973-74 62
Lerent feedstocks; they hdve adopt-                                       per cent. The corresponding figures
ed different processes even with the    For pulpose  of  onvenience  we  for the  units established  between
same feedstocks.  Their sizes vary  have taken inito accotunt the produc-  1965 and 1970 excluding Neyveli (as
from  literally a pigmy (at least by  tion performanice of all the domestic  it }.as continu6tusly su ffered from pro-
today's standard) to giants even 1   nitrogenous, phosphatic and complex  blems of raw  materials and  odter
world standards. Nor is the porduct  planits durinig the Fourth Five Year technological problems) are 87 and 77
mix the same in all the plants. Quite  Plani period, namely, 1969-70 to 1973- per cent respectively. It is obvious
a diversity indeed, dictated undoubt-  74. Their capacity anid production in  that the newer plants have perform-
edlv by a host of reasons.  Under  terms of ntutrients arid capacity litili- ed verv much better than the older
such circumstances, a discussion of sationi (prodiuctivity)  as percentage  ones. It can be safely asserted from
the overall capacity-utilisation is like-  are given in Table 1.          this analvsis that tle older the plant,
ly to be misleading.                                                      the poorer its performance. Conver-
At this stage mav we utter a word           According to Age            sely, productivity  in more modern
of catution. The task that we have    The existing plants have been ca-  plants is distinctlv better.
undertaken is complex.  There are  tegorised un(ler fonr 'Age Groups'--    This is not surprising. This pheno-
manv unknowni and interesting fac-  pre-1960: between   19C0 and 1965;  menon is, due, inter se, to two pre-
tors Nwhich have an impact not amply  between 1965 and  1970 and post- dominant factors, i.e., improved tech-
clear. It is not, therefore, the inten-  1970. '[his plantwise-yearwise pro-  nologv and better  phvsical fitness
tion to suggest, leave alone assert, ductivity given in Table I has been  due to vounger age of plants. This is
that what follows is necessarily the  rearrange(1 according to the age  of the reason for rapid obsolescence in
complete picture. Our comments will  the plaints in Table 2.               advanced countries particularly  for
be mere indicators: and we hope that   It is generally accepted that ope- chemical industries -  a luxury we
these leads can be picked up and  rations in a new plant take 2 to  3  in India cannot afford due to  our
followed by others  who are  more  years to stabilise. It s, tlherefore, not socio-politico-economic conditions.
competent to delve deeper into the  unreasonable to expect that produc-
stubject.                            tion in units like MIFL, Goa, Cochin          According to Size
and Dturgapuir had  not complete.ly    For this puirpose, the existing units
1/ Reproduced from FAI Fertilizer News, March 1975



TABLE 1-A Production performance of flitrogenou3 and complex fertlfiser plants in India during the Fourth Plan Period
(April-March)
19bg-70                1970-71                  91-2                  1972-73                       1973-74
Date of
Plant  .~~~~~~~~' ~~~,  ~~~                                        ,,   ~~~~~               I,   ~~~~~' ~        commissioning
U  o~  o~    c.      o~        ~      ,     o~c.u~            U        OwO.uz ,                     O.
1. FACT, Alwaye  N    70,000   30.000  43    92,000   30,000  33 - 92,000   36,364    40          82,U00     28,599    35   82,000    36,000    44    June 1947
P:O,   27,000   11,000  41   36,200   12,000  33       36,200   11,948    33     36,200     10,873    30    36,200    17,000    47    Seapt., 1971
2. FCI, Sindri     N  1,17,000   74.000  63  1,17,000   74,0C0  63   1,17,000   57,222    49    90,000      55,364    62   90,000    57,000    65    Nov., 1951 - Oct. '1959
3. NCJML,
Varanasi        N    10,160    3,000  30    10,160    6,000  59   1,01,160    4,611    46      10,000      3,465    35    10,000     4,000    40    Nov., 1959
4. FCI, Nangal    N    80,000  8J,000 100    80,000   55,000  69       80,000   56,531    71     80,000     53.981    67    80,000    62,000    77    Feb., 1961
5. i'SL, Rourkela  N  1,20,000   30,000  25  1,20,000   24,000  20   1,20,000   46,352    39   1,20,000     49,097    40   1,20,000    46,000    38    Dec., 1962-August 196V
6. EID-Parry,      N    15,970    9,600  60    15,970    8,680  54      15,970   10,940    69    15,970     11,680    73    15,970    10,340    65    Mar., 1963 - Jan. 1968
Ernnore      P.-Os   10,430   -i,240  10   10,430    5,890  57      10,430    8,370    80      10,430      8,830    85    10,430     8,050    77
T. FCI, T. ombay   N    90,000   44,000  49    81,000   63,000  78     81,000   68,353    85     81,000     60,709    75   81,000    56,000    69    Oct., 1965 - Nov: 1965
P.O.   45,000   17, 000  38    36,000   24,000  67     36,000   40,675   113     36,OCO     36,012   100    36,000    32,000    89
8. NLC, Neyveli   N    70,000   43,000  61    70,COO   32,000  46       70,000   19,751    28     70,000     20,910    30    70,000    15,000    21    Mar., 1966
9. GSFC, Baroda  N  2,1f,000 1,10,000  51  2,16,000 1,47,000  68   2,16.000 1,85,440   1S6   2,16,000   2,02,603    94  2,16,000  1,61,000    75    May 07 - June 69
P-Os   51,840  21,000  41   51,840   25 000  48        51,840   24,146    47     51,840     31,779    61    51,840    28,000    55
10. CFL, Vizag      N    80,000   68,000  85   80,000   75,000  94      80,000  64,595    81      ea0,00      58,917    74    80,000    54,000    68    Dec., 67 - Feb., 68
P2O.    73,000   64.0C0  88    73,000   58,000  79    73,000   64,410    88      73,000     62,336    85    73,000    61,000    84
11. FCI, Namrup    N    45,000   25,000  56    45,000   27,000  60       45,000  29,819    66     45,000      33,718    75    45,000    38,000    80    Feb., 68 - Jan. 69
12. FCI, Gorakhpur N    80,000   73,000  91   80,000   68,000  85       80,000   76,000    95     80,000     66,733    83    80,000    64,000    80    Feb., 68 - Jan. 69
13. SCI, Kota       N  1,12,000   81,000  72  1,12,000 1,14,000 102   1,10,000 1,07,276    98   1,10,000   1,27,525    116  1,10,000  1,10,000   100    Feb., 1969
14. IEL, Kanpur    N  2,00,000  '17,000   9  2,00,000 1,07,000  54   2,00,000 1,28,524    64   2,00,000   1,60,282      80  2 00,000   1,15,000    57    Dec., 1969
15. MFL, Madras   N    -            -     -      -       -       -    1,90,000   42,413    22   1,64,000   1,04,832     64  1,64,000  1,24,000    76    July 711-Oct. 71
P'O.             -              -               -.     85,000   12,908    31     85,000     53,520     63    85,000    52,000    61
16. ZACL, Goa       N          -       -                          -           -            -        -          -        -   1,70,000    65,000    45    Jan., 73 - May, 73
17. FACT, Cochln  N    -            -                                                                                    -        - -- --1,52,000    14,000  9    April, 73 - July, 73
18. FCI, Durgapur  N    -                 -                                       -        -        ---   1,52,000                       6,000     3    June 73 -Oct. 73
19. Coke Ovens      N    26,750   16,000  60   26,750   16,000  60      26,630   14,738    55     26,630      16,084    60    27,990    14,560
20. Slagle & Triple
Superphosphate
Factories    P203 2,24,030 1,01,888  47  2,28,180 1,00,655  45   2,29.460 1,27,104    55   2,12,170   1, 28,819    61  2,36,120  1,26.791    54
N 13,32,880 7,04.600  53  1,34,580 8,46,680  63  15,33,760 9,49,110    82  14,70,800  10,54,594    70 19,45,960 10,49,900    54
P,06  4,31,300 2,22,128  52  5,33,650 2,25,545  53   5,21,930 2,90,032    56   5,04,640   3,32,169    66  5,81,630  3,24,841    56
Ref :Fertiliser Statistics, PAlI, 1968-69 to 1972-73.



AMNEX 3-L
Page  3
Table 2-Fertiliser plants according to age                           Kota and Kaiipur durinig 'r97%73, at
around 86 per cent is good by any
standard.
Per cent capacity utillsatlon
Plant                                _Per cent_capacity_ utlsaton__                 The performaince of plants based
I              oin coke and lignite as feedstock has
1969-70   1970-71  i971-12   1972-73   1973-74       been very poor (averaging about 42
per cenit). Tlhe onlv plant based com-
(a) Established before 1960                                                          pletely oll natuiral gas is the FCI unit
1. FACT, Alwaye                43        33        40       35        44         at Namrtzp.   Althouglh its perform-
2. FCI, Sindri                 63        63        49       62        63         ance has improved over the years, its
3. NCJM, Varanasl              30        59        46       35        40         best achievemeint   so far has been
(b) Established between 1960 and 1965                                                only about 80 per cent compared to
4. FCI, Nagal                 100        69        71       67        77         the average of 86 per cent Qf the
5. HSL. Rourkela               25        20        39       4')       38         plants based on  naphtha. Normally,
6. EID-Parry, Ennore           60        54       69        73        65
7. FCI, Trombiay               49        78        85       75        69         plants based on natur. I gas, perform
much better than those based on
(c) Established between 1965 and 1970muhbtetan toebsd                                                                       n
B. NLC, Neyveli                61        46        28       30        21         other feedstocks. The comparatively
9. GSFC, Baroja                51        68       36        94        75         low  productiv0y   of the   Namrup
10. CFL, Vlzag                  85        94       31        74        60         plant is unusual and is attributed to
11. FCI, Namru;                 56       60        56        75       80          inadequate  and  irregular supply  of
13. SCI, Kota                   72       lt        98 91  50                      electric power from  the State Elee-
14. IEL, Kanpur                  9       54       f64        so        57         tricity Board.
(d) Established after 1970                                                             The Nangal Plant is based on elec-
15. MFL, Madras                 -         -        2:2       64        76         trolvsis of water. It has worked  to
16. ZACL, Goa                   -         -                  -         45
17. FACT, Cochin                -         -         -                             100 per cent capacity whenever the
18. FCI, Durgapur               -         -        --        -          3         full power requ red, namely, 164 MW,
is made available to the plant.  Its
Ret: Fertuliser Statistics, FAI, 1968-69 to 1972-73.                                low  productIviiy   in  the  last four
yea'rs is only due to the shortage of
power.
have been classified unlder four sizes,
namelv, below  50,000 tonnes per an-                           Table 3--Fertiliser plants according to size
nuim  of nitrogen), between 50,000 to                           __
100,000 tonnes, between  100,000  to
200,000 and over 200,000 tonnles. The              Plant                                 Per cent capacity utilisation
relevant data is prjsent2d in Table 3.            ,
Altholugh  it is not possible to arrive                                        1969-70   1970-71   1971-72   1972-73   1973-74
at any definite conclusion, it would                                                                                _
appear that the performance of the
stabilised plants w-ith a capacitv ex-         (a) Capacity over 200,000 tpa N
ceedinig   100,000  tonnles  has been              1. GSFC, Baroda                51        68       86        94        75
marginallY better than  the rest.              (b) Capacity between 100,000 and 200,000 tpa N
According to  Feedstock Used                    2. HSL, Rourkela               25        20        39       40        38
All the existing plants have been               3. Sci, Kota                    72       102       98       116       100
reclassified  as (a) nanhthav-basede              4. IEL, Kanpur                   9        54       64        80        57
core aidianitenaphtha-hase        tl,  ( natura5. MF., Madras                     -         -        22        64        76
coke  and  lignite-based,   c) natural             6. ZACL, Goa                   -         -        -         -         45
,gas. refinex g ,,as and cokeoven gas-             7  FACT Cochin                 -         -        -         -          9
based, (d) electricity-bated, and  (e)             S. FCI, Durgapur               -         -        -         -          3
hased  on  mrnie than  one feedstock
(ref.  Table 4). In the last category          (c) Capacity between 50,000 and 100,000 tpa N
are incluide(d plants like Sincdri which           9. FACT, Alwaye                43        33        40       35        44
nse coke, coke-oven  gas and  naph-               10. FCI Sindri                  63        63       49        62        63
tha, the Rotirkela planit which  uses             1t. FCI, Nangal                100        69        71       67        77
cokeoven gas and(  naplhtha, and the              12. FCI Trombay                 49        78       85        75        69
Trombav  plant  -hich  uses refinery              13. NLC:, Neyveli               61        46        28       30        21
oas and naphtha.                                  14. CFL, Vizag                  85        94       81        74        68
It may be seeni fruomi Table 4 that            15. FCI, Gorakhpur               91       85        95        83       80
except FACT, the rest of the naph-             (d) Capacity below 50,000 tpa N
tha-based  plants (barriug  Goa, Co-              16. NCJM, Varanasl              39        59        46       35        40
('hinl ,ll(l D)tur'gapiril' where produtlctionl   17. EID-Parry, Ennore           60        54        69       73        65
i~ \ et to stahilisel, have been perfor-          18. FC! Namrup
18. FC!, Namrup         56        60       66        75        80
inin- well. I'e average capacity uti-
lisation  of t}'f' plants at Ennore, Ba-
trod(a    V7is.ikhapatnarn,   Corakhptir,       Ref: Fertiliser Statistics, FAI, 1968-69 to 1972-73.



ANhEK 3-4
Page 14
Table 4-Fortiliser plants according to feedstock                     ses adopted  like partial  oxidation,
steam  reforming and   miscellaneous
Per cent capacity utillsatlon                      processes are shown in Table 5. 'the
plant                                                           Remarks      plants based on steam  reformiiig of
naphtha appear to  have performed
1969.70 1970-71  1971-72  1972-73  1073-74                 the best of the lot. For example, the
______________________________                      overall average performance of the
(a) Naphtha as feedstock                                                           plants  at  Baroda,  Visakhapatnam,
1. FACT, Alwaye      43       33        40       35        44                  Kota and Kanpur at 91 per cent dur-
2. EID-Parry. Ennore  60       54       to        73       65                  ing  1972-73 is commendable.   The
3. GSFC, Baroda      51        68       80        94       75                   average  productivity  of the  plants
4. CFL, Vitag        85        94       81        14       68                  based on partial  oxidation process
5. FCI, Gorakhpur    91        85       95s       83       s0
6. SCI, Kota         72       102 S     9        116      1'                   barring FACT, i.e., Ennore, Corakh-
7. IEL, Kanpur        9       54        t4       aO        57                  pur, and Trombay at 76 per cent is
8. MFLi Madras       -        -         22       64        76                  also fairly satisfactorv.  Other units
9. ZACL, Goa                   -                           45                  using  miscellaneous  processes have
10.,FACT. Cochin      -         -        -         -9
II. FPCI Durgspur     -        -                                                not fared as well. To sum  up, plants
using  steam   reforming  process  of
(b) Coal, coke, lignite as feedstock                                               naphtha have performed much bet-
,12. FCI, Sindri      63        63       49        62       62  Using also       ter than those using other processes.
I& NCJM, Varanasi   30         59        4e       SS        40  naptha             The lesson here is obvious. For a
14. NLC, NeyVal aI    3         46       2a        30       21                  country like India with  limited  re-
sources and which has to rapidly aug-
(e) Natural gas, refinery gas and C.O.G.                                           rnent domestic production to meet the
15. FCI. Namrup       56        60       66        75       s0                  ever increasing   demand, we  must
)dj Electricty as foedstock                                                        adopt proven, even though less so-
16. FCI, Nangal      100        69       71        67       77                  phisticated, technology  and  equip-
mnent. We cannot afford the luxury
(e) Using nore than one feedstock                                                  of being used as guinea pigs for ex-
17. FCI. Sindri       63       63        49       62        62  Coal.           perimenting with newer processes.
naphtha,
C.O.G.
1B. HSL, Rourkela     25        20       39        40       30  C.O.G.,
naphta
19. FCI, Trombai      49       78       U5        75       60  NaphtS,
refin. gas
Ref: Fertiliser S3t4istics, FAI, 1968-69 to 1972-73.
The   lants uising  mnore than  one                  Table 5-Fertiliser Plants acCording to process adopied
feedstock have not performed catis-
factorily. This is understandable  as                       -                          Per cent capacity utilisation
considerable complications arise duePln
to multiplicity of processes to be adop-
ted when more than one feedstock is                                          1969070   1970.71   1071-2   1972-73   1973-74
to be processed in the same plant.
Among the units in this category, the         (a) Partial oxidation process
performance of Trombay unit is di-                1. FACT, Always               44        33       40        35       44
stinctly  superior to  thte  others.             2. EIO-Parry, Ennore           60        54       69        73       65
3. FCI, Gorakhpur              91       85        95       83        Be
Indian  experience points  to  the             4. FCI, Trombay                49        78       65        75       69
nieed for a single feedstock for each
unit and  the plant being designed            (b) Steam refooming proeess
would       5~~. FCI. Namirup              56       60        66       75        s0
accordingly. Of these, naphtha would              6. GSFC. Baroda               51        68        86       94        75
appear to be the best suited.  No                 7. CFL, Vlzag                  85       94        81       74        66
wonder that the Indian fertiliser in-             8. SCI, Kota                   72      102        98      116       100
dustry has so far shown a marked                  9. IEL, Kanpur                 9        54       64        Bo        57
10. MFL, Madras                -         -        22        64       76
preference for naphtha as a feedstock            11. ZACL, Goa                   -        -         -        -         45
and  all plants   commissioned  since            12. FACT. Cochin                -        -        -         - 9
1967 to  date  were naphtha  based               13. FCI. Durgapur              -         -        -         -         3
till now when the changes in the in-          (c) 1Ilhselbar.ows process
ternational oil scene have forced us             14. FCI,Sindri                 f 3       63       49        52        63
to opt for alternatives like ftuel oil           15. NCJM, Varanasi             30        59       45        35        40
and coal.                                       1I. HSL, Rourkela               25        go        39       40       38
17. FCI. Nangal                100       60       71        87       77
According to Process Adopted                  18. NLC, Neyvell                e1        46       28        30       21
The units arid their productivity
reclassified tunder the various proces-        Ret: forilfisor Statisiks, FAI, 196S-69 to 1972-73.



ANNEX 3-L
Page
TABLE 1-B CAPACITY UTILIZATION BY SECTORS
1969-70   1970-71   1971-72   1972-73   1973-74
Private Sector
1. SCI, Kota                          72       102        98         116         100
2. IEL, Kanpur                         9        54        64          80          57
3. Zuari Agro, Goa                    -         -          -          -           45
4. CFL, Vizag                         85         94       81          74          68
Joint Sector
1. GSFC, Baroda                       51        68        86          94          75
2. MFL, Madras                       -          -         22          64          76
Public Sector
1. HSL, Rourkela                      25        20        39          40          38
2. FACT, Alwaye                       43         33       40          35          4
3. FACT, Cochin                      -          -          -          -            9
4. FCI, Durgapur                      -          -         -          -            4
5. FCI, Sindri                        63        63        49          62          63
6. FCI, Nangal                       100        69        71          67          77
7. FCI, Trombay                      49          78       85          75          69
8. FCI, Gorakhpur                     91        85        95          83          80
9. FCI, Namrup                        56        60        66          75          80
10.      Neyveli                       61         46       28          30          21



A.%N Ex 3- 5
Page 1
THE OIL INIUSTRY AS A SOURCE OF FEEDSOCK FOR THE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY
India has small reserves of natural gas, sufficient to provide
feedstock for only two fertilizer plants, the FCI Namrup plant in Assam
and the IFFCO Kalol plant in Gujarat. For all the other fertilizer plants
it has to rely on petroleum products, namely naphtha and fuel oil provided
by the oil industry. The traditional feedstock has been naphtha, principally
because the naphtha reforming process, applied for the production of ammonia,
is a well known process and was until recently the only one commercially
available for the manufacturer of nitrogen fertilizer from petroleum
feedstock.
In the last few years commercialization of a process based on
the partial oxidation of hydrocarbons has made it possible to use heavier,
and therefore cheaper, feedstocks for ammonia production. Unfortunately,
the capital cost requirements of such a process is somewhat higher than
that required in the naphtha reforming. Although it is extremely difficult
to estimate the cost differential between the two processes on a comparable
basis, figures ranging from 30% to 50% have been quoted by engineering
firms.
The Government of India, through the Ministry of Petroleum and
Chemicals, decided in 1971 to adopt fuel oil as the feedstock for all
ammonia plant to be built in India. Although they were aware of the
additional capital cost which would be required, the higher price of naphtha,
when compared to fuel oil, and the availability of surplus fuel oil in the
local market appeared to be sufficient reasons to justify such a decision
from an economic   as well as a supply point of view.  Indeed refinery
planning in India has broadly aimed to achieve a high level of self-
sufficiency with respect to refinery products. In view of the fact that a
high proportion of the demand consists of middle distillates, the tendency
has sometimes been to think of other products as potentially surplus.
Thus in the 1960's the indigenous fertilizer and petrochemical
plants were based on naphtha as feedstock, because a surplus of light
distillates was otherwise anticipated. Recently the GOI has attempted to
reduce the use of crude oil, by substituting fuel oil with coal, and the
resultant prospective surplus of heavy fuel oil would warrant in their
view the establishment of a new generation of fertilizer plants based on
fuel oil rather than naphtha. This shift can easily be seen from Tables
1, 2 and 3    feedstock requirements of the various fertilizer plants, in
operation or being built in India.
In the present situation, a rather different approach may be
justified, in which the design of refineries is more closely matched to
the pattern of product demand. Rather than expanding total refining capacity
in line with prospective increase in the demand for middle distillates, it
might be better to use heavy ends, which should become available because
of the switch from fuel oil to coal, as an input into secondary processes,
as for example coking, hydrocracking or catalytic cracking, which would
yield further quantities of light and middle distillates.



AM1EX 3-5
Page 2
Table 1
Estimated Naphtha Requirements for Fertilizer Plants
('000 tons)
Year ending         1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    198b
March 31
Pro.ject
1.  Sindri             26     26       26      26       26      20      -        -       -
2.   Trombay           75     75       80      80       80      80       80      80      80       8C
3.  Gorakhpur          94     90      100     110     110      110     110      110     110      lOC
4.  Durgapur           35     85      120     130      130     130     130      130     130      13C
5.   FACT Udl.         60     65       55      55       55      55      55       55 $5            55
6.   Cochin            70     98      120     135      135     135      135     135     135      135
7.   Rourkela          80     80       80     110     110      110     110      110     110      llC
8.   Madras           143    190      210     220      220     220     220      220     220      220
9.  Barauni            10    105      130     140      145     145     145      145     145      145
10.   IFFCO             10     50       55      60       60      60       60      60      60       60
11.  EID Parry          13     13       11     -        -       -       -        -       -        -
12.  GSFC              110    110      130     130     130      130     130      130     130      130
13.  Vizag              85     80       80      80       80      80      80       80      80       8C
14.  Kota              100    135      145     145     145      145     145      1145    145      145
15.  Kanpur            200    200      203     200     200      200     200      200     200      200
16.  Goa               195    195      213     210     210      210     210      210     210      210
17.   Tuticorin         30    160      200     220     220      220     220      220     220      220
18.   Mangalore        -       90     120      1)40    1)40     140     140      140     1)40     1-40
19.   Maharashtra      -      -       -        -       -         40      40       45      45       45
Cooperative
Total         1,296  1,847   2,072   2,191   2,196   2,230   2,210   2,215   2,215   2,215
SOURCE:    Data supplied by the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals, India.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1975



Table 2
Fuel Oil/Feedst-ock Requirements
for, Fertilizer PlntUs
('000 tons)
Year Ending March 31  1975   1976   1977   1978   1979    1980    1981    1982    183 3           L584
1.  Sindri
Mode mization      -       -        -      70    160       200     200      200      200     200
2.  Tflrombay Expansion -      -        -       -     140      170      200     200      200      200
3.  Nangal Expansion  -        25      120    200    220       220      220     220      220      220
4. Haldia               -      -        -       70    110      150     150      150      150      150
5.  Phatinda            -      -        -       70    170      22C,    220      220      220      220
6.  Phulpur            -       -        -       -      70      170      210     210      210      210
7.  Kota Expansion    -        -        -      -       40      220      260     300      300      300
8.  Panipat             -      -        -       -      -       150      200     220      220      220
9.  Mathura            -       -        -       -      -       100      200     220      220      220
10.  Paradeep            -      -        -       -      -        -       140     280      320      320
11.  Kakinada                        -                  50      170      200     210      210      210
12.  GSFC Expansion    -        -        -       50    200      260      300     300      300      300
Total              -       25     120    460  1,160   2,030   2,500   2,730   2,770   2,770
SOURCE:   Data supplied by the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals, India.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1975



ANNT EX 3 - 5
P age 4
Table 3
Fuel Oil Reuirements for Fertilizer Plant
('000 tons)
Year Ending March 31  1975   1976   1977   1978   1979    1980    1981    1982    1.983    198h
Units
1.  Trombay             35      50     50      50    50       50       50      50       50      50
2.  FACT Udl.           25      25     25      25    25       25       25      25       25      25
3.  Cochin              30      50     70      80    80       80       80      80       80      80
4. M.F.L.               6O      70     80      80    80       80       80      80       80      80
5. EID                   8      10     10      -     -        -        -       -        -       -
6.  GSFC                5°      60     70    100   130       130      130     130      130     130
7.  Vizag               30      35     35      35    35       35       35      35       35      35
8.  Kota                25      25     25      25    25       25       25      25       25      25
9.  Goa                 80      85     90      90    90       90       90      90       90      90
10.  Tuticorin           25    100    150    150   150        150      150     150      150     150
11.  Mangalore           -       20     25      30    30       30       30      30       30       30
12.  IFFCO                20     40     50      55    55       55       55      55       55       55
Total            388    570    680    720   750        750     750      750     750      750
SOURCE: Data supplied by the Ministry of Iletroleum and Chemicals, India.
Industrial Projects Department
M-Trch 1975



ANNEX 4,-1
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
FOI On-Going Project Costs and Financing Recuirements
( in US$ Millions)
I.   On-Going Pro,iects (Estimated to be commissioned FY 1976/77 or later)
FX X
Project Cost Estimate-_         Fini7cing        Required to
Foreign     Locai       Total        Gaj              Completion
Exchange   Currency
Namrup                                       29.7          49.i        78.8        0.1               7.L
Gorakpur                                     11.2          12.3        23.5          -                 x.c
Barauni                                      28.6          63.2        91.8         1.0              10.5
hangal                                       75.1          58.1,      133.5        16.1             L'7.h
Tronmbay IV                                  33.0          L6.1        79.1          -              113.6
Talcher                                      52.6         136.h       189.0         2.6             56.7
Ramagundam                                   51.8         131.9       183.7         1.8             56.5
Durgapur                                     31.5          55.L        86.9        0.6                3.1
Haldia                                       51.,         199.2       250.6        10.5            159.9
Sindri
a.  Rationa'lization & Renovation            18.8          4L.8        63.6        12.9              13.8
b. Modernization                             91.0          83.6       17h.6          -               82.3
Korba                                        53.9         20LI.7      258.6       Lo.xC            201.C
Miscellaneous Schemes                         5.1          27.6         2                            6.7
Total                                   533         1,112.7    1,64 6.17                       692.9
II.   GOI Financial Support for FCI Projects
Total GOI Contribution to FCI Projectal/
FY 1976-79                      FY 1980 & Onwards
Foreign      Local       Total        Foreign    Local    Total
Exchange    Currency                  Exchange  Currency
a. On-Going Proi cts                            86           628         71h                    6 5       65
b. Modernization_,                               1            52          53           -        -         -
c. New Projectsl/                              113           295         L08        .62        165      227
200          .?           7 ,1 75              230       292
1/  Based on FCI estimates as of May 1975.  An exchange rate of Rs 7.80 = US$1.00 is used.  Of the total
61, 6lls million 'roject costs, j681 .3 million has been disbursed as of Aarch 31, 1975.
/   -cluae3  .::3ign oxch.ange spont by GOI up to a-irch .-, 19(j.
3/  The internal cash generation of FCI during FY 1976-1°7° is not expected to provide funds to even
partially finance the on-going projects and may even be inadequate tc support existing operations.
Hence the total local currency financing from GOI may exceed the project requirements indicated above.
5/ The modernization projects are those covered under the plant improvement (POIP) component of the
Trombay IV credit ($13 million in foreign exchange) and the proposed Fertilizer VII Industry Credit
($40 million in foreign exchange).
5/ New projects are Trombay 'I and Paradeep.
Industrial Projects Department
'ove<nV.F 1075.



ANNFEX -2
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
Fertilizer Investent Program-Project Costs and Financing Rqir n/
(ir 135$ Millions)
Financing Gap to be
Procect Cost Estimates                   Provided by GOI
Foreign      JOcaJ    Total          Foreign      Local    Total
Exchange  Currency                   Exchange  Currency
I.   On-Going Projects (Estirimated to be commissioned FY 1976/77 or later)
FCI (11)2                                   53L        1,113      1,607            86          693       779
NFL (2)                                     18C          253        433           100          253       353
FACT (Cochin IID3                           -27           h2         69             7           22         29
IFFCO (Phulpur)                             109          112        221            -            59         59
Khetri                          ~~~~~~25       4~0       65                         IC1        10
Madras Expansion-5/                           2           13         15            -     1,         23
_77 7  1, 77-3    2,L50           193       1,037      1,230
Required During FY 1976/77 - FY 1978/79                                   193          972      1,165
Required During FY 1979/80 or Onwards                                      -            65         65
193       1,037      1,230
II.   Modernization Projects (POIP & Fertilizer VII) -
FCI                                         52           "o                        '
Other Public Sector
(FACT, Neyvelli, Rourkela)                21                        8
Private/Mixed Sectors                       29           58          87            -
Total                               -02         3-5        2 7             1           7R        79
Financing Gap to be
Project Cost Estimates                   Provided by GOI
Foreign    Local       Total         Foreign    Local       Total
Exchange  Currency                   Exchange  Currency
III.   Proposed New Projects
Trombay V2a/                               50          130       lO             50          130       180
Paradeep_                                 125          330        h55           125          330       L55
Mathura                                   100          130        230            60          130        190
GSFC II                                   100          130        230            65           15         8G
Shaw-Wallace                              100          130        230            -            60         6c
Maharastra Cooperative Fertilizers
& Chemicals  (-C"'                       18           39         57            -            -          -
Total                              h93         8.89                      300        _66          965
Required During FY 1976/77 - FY 1978/79                                  2hl          500        7Li0
Required During FY 1979/80 or later                                       60          165        225
300                    965
1/ Unless otherwise indicated, the costs showr above are based on estimates of the appraisal mission.  An
exchange rate of Es 7.80 = us$ 1.00 is usec.
2/  FC2I estimate as of May 1975.
3/  Based on February 5, 1975 project supervision estimate.
4/ Based on project appraisal estimate.
§/ Based or. company (MFL) estimate as of FebrLary 1975.
6 /' `-a'c1-s-' FPCL refinery  -P1ansion projpct air:1 te ciccl assistanse.
Industrial Projects Department
Yo',eTher 1975



ANNEX 4-3
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
TROMBAY IV POIP COMPONENTS
Previous Assistance for Plant Operation Improvement
Under IDA Credit 481-IN, $17 million was provided in May 1974 for the
plant operation improvement (POIP) of FCI and FACT plants. However, the use of these
funds has been slow because FCI had to appoint technical experts to make detailed
studies of the plants having problems. On the basis of these findings, FCI has
prepared a plan for the use of the funds. The following table shows a list of
items for which Bank approval has been given and for which procurement is underway:
Plan for Using $17 Million
Under IDA Credit 481-IN
Cost, $ Million
I. FCI Projects    Scope of Planned Activities              Foreign   Local   Total
Durgapur        Implementation of the Technimont
survey recommendations                  3.7       6.5    10.2
Trombay         Sulfuric acid plant modernization          °.5       1.5     2.0
Ammonia plant renovation                  0,7       0.5     1.2
In-plant power generation                 3.6       ).9     8.5
Sindri          Aluminium fluoride production              1.9       401     6.0
Gorakhpur       Spare for wasteheat boiler                 0.3       0.2    0,5
Low pressure & high pressure
decomposers for urea plant              0.8       0.7     1.5
General         Consultancy services for Trombay,.
Nangal, Sindri and Durgapur             1.1       0.9     2.0
15 tank wagons for ammonia
transportation                          01. l0            104
Sub-Total                  13.0     20.3    33.3
II. FACT            Cochin I debottlenecking                   1.3       2.8     4.1
Udyogamandal Plant modernization           2.7      5.5     8.2
TOTAL                      17.0     28.6    45.6
Industrial Projects Department
May 1975



ANMl'X la-
INDIA - FERTIIIZEh INDUSTRY CREDIT
Financing Sources cf Fertilizer Investment Program
(in millions of US dollars)
Projects/Sources
Foreign         Local            Total
I.   Ongoing Projectsi/                              Fcchange        Currency
IBED/IDA                                     321             -                 321
Italian Credits                              112              -                112
Japanese Credits (NFL)                        80              -                 80
Other Bilateral Credits & FX Sources         116                2/             116
Internal Enterprise Funds                     -              823/               82
Local Financial Institutions                  -              21h-               24
Already Disbursed (up to March 1975)
by GOI                                      55             i30               485
G0I (FY 1975/76-FY 1978/79)                  193            972              1,165
001 (FY 1979/80)                              -              65                 65
Sub-Total                              o77           15773             2
II.   Modernization (Fert. VII & Trombay IV Credit)
IDA _1/                                      101             16                12 7
Internal Enterprise Funds                     -
Local Financial Institutions                  -              21                 21
30'I                                           1             7                  70
Sub-Total                              102             ' '5              2'7
III.   Proposed New Projects
ODR (Shaw-Wallace)                            85             -                  85
Japanese Credit (Mathura)                     40             -                  ho
KfW (CSFC II)                                 35             -                  35
Other FX Sources                              335/           -                  33
Project Sponsors/State GovtA6/                -              L6                 46
Local Financial Institutionsj                 -             178                178
G.00  (FY 1975/76 - FY 1978/79)              21X0           500                7b0
00I (FY 1979/80)                              60            165                225
Sub-Total                              h93             89              1,382
O Of the $321 million IBRD/IDA foreign exchange funds, some $45 million
has been disbursed as of March 31, 1975. Of the $30& million foreign
exchange funds from other sources (Italian, Japanese, others), $180
million has been disbursed as of March 31, 1975.
2/  Rajasthan State (Khetri) $L40; IFFOC  $29, and Madras $13 million respectively.
Some $40 million of this $82 million is estimated to have been disbursed as
of March 31, 1975.
3/  For IFFCD (Phulpur) project.
/  Fertilizer VII: $1C(. mi-3i,on (excludinrg $), for, rPCI. and $  mi}lior for
terholical assistance); Tnrobay IV Crmeit $17 rillion.
i/  Assumes'p , ni,:Vicr: for Shaw Mtxllaoe. $1iQ ril2iorn is for l ^Y"C wahi r. will
be purchased witti local currency (borrowed fronj Pira'nial institutions and
raises the funding fron, institutions to $196 million for new proJects).
6/  Shaw Wallace - $15 million; GSFC II - $11 million; MACFC - $16 million
(State/Cooperative/GOI).
7/ It is estitniated that local financial institutions can provide about US$23C
million in local funmis for the fertilizer industry assumed to be allocated
as Iullows:
GSPS II                    $100 million
Sh,w--Wallac                 55
MCFC                       $ 41    "
IFFOC  (Phulpur)           $ 24
SPIC                       $ 10
Total:                   $230 million
Industrial Projects
November 1975



ANNEX 4-5
INDIA - FERTILIr' R INDUSTRY CREDIT
FOREIGN EXCHANGE Cosr Or fhATILIZnt CONSUNPTION
A The Foreign Exchange Cost of Fertilizer Consumption
L.        Table 2 provides an estimate of the foreign exchange cost of
fertilizer consumption, covering only the import of finished products and raw
materials and excluding capital charges as well as maintenance expenditures.
The foreign exchange cost of fertilizer consumption is expected to gradually
increase from about US$810 million in 1976/77 to US$1,200 million by 1980/81
(in current dollars) as a result of higher consumption levels. The foreign
exchange cost per nutrient ton consumed, however, will decline by 1)% from
US$209 (1976/77) to US$179 (1980/81) during the same period. The share of
fertilizer product imports--representing the shortfall between consumption and
local production--will also decline from 56% of the 1976/77 foreign exchange
cost to 35% by 1980/81 as increasing local production supply a larger proportion
of requirements.
2.        Actual product imports during 1976/77, however, may be less than the
estimated deficit as stocks have been built up during 1974/75 and 175/76 when
the deficits were only 72% of product imports (Table 2). Some build-up in
stocks is necessary as inventories were greatly reduced during 1971/72 through
1973/7L when product imports were less than the deficit. Unfortunately,
ferti].izer import costs increased steeply during 1974/75 and 1975/76, with the
average import cost reaching US$708 per ton of nutrient in 1975/76 compared to
US$153 per ton of nutrient during 1972/73¢ Thus, the inventory bui]d-up during
IQ7L/75 and 1975/76--approximately 0.88 million nutrient tons--cost about
US$520 million, or US$590 per nutrient. ton. The projected import cost for
1976/77, as a consequence of the decline in international prices starting in
mid-1975, is only about US$435 per nutrient ton.
3.        The calculation of the foreign exchange cost of phosphate production
assumes that one-third of phosphate rock requirements will be supp:Lied from
local sources. While there are existing local phosphate rock suppliers, their
output is not expected to provide one-third of requirements towards the end of
this decade.   However, there are phosphate deposits in the Rajasthan area that
can be developed and it has been assumed that phosphate rock from this or similar
sources will be available within the next three or four years. Considering the
higher freight costs for phosphate rock and the escalating capital costs for
phosphoric acid plants, phosphate production based on imported rock is only
marginally economic compared to imports of finished phosphate fertilizer,
Consequently, the development of domestic phosphate rock deposits should have
a high priority among development projects in India.
B. The Effect of a Delay in Completing Projects
4.        While the industry has the potential of increasing output to keep
pace with the growth in demand, some caution must be exercised, Most of the



ANNEX 1h-5
Page 2
capacity additions, representing about 35% of the nutrient capacity in
1979/80 are scheduled to come on strean during 1977/78 and thereafter.
Even a modest one-year delay in this group of projects could reduce
production by about 10%dur.ng the four-year period 1977/78 through
1978/81--for a total of about 1.46 million tons of nutrient. The foreign
exchange cost of fertilizer consumption during this four-year period will
increase by US$718 million (in current dollars), or an annual average of
US$180 million. The fertilizer deficit which is expected to range from
10 to 1.2 million nutrient; tons from now till 1980/81, would instead range
from 1.3 to 1.6 million nut;rient tons. The impact of a one-year delay in
the completion of this grouLp of projects is most pronounced during 1979/80-
-when the deficit could increase by 60% from 1.0 to 106 million tons of
nutrient and the foreign exchange cost of fertilizer consumption will
increase by US$270 million from US$985 million to US$1,255 million (in
current dollars).



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
THE COST OF FERTILIZER PRODUCT IMPORTS
(in current US$)
Deficit of Fertilizer Productsk/                    Imports of Fertilizer Products
Nutrient      Value(CIF)        Average Price         Nutrient       Value(CIF)    Average Price
ybar                (million TPY)  (million US$)!/  ($/ton Nutrient)./  (million TPY)  (million US$) ($/ton Nutrient)
1971/72 (Actual)          1.37                                                  0.97            115.3            119
1972/73    "              1.31                                                  1.22            187.2            153
1973/7h    "              1.32                                                  1.26            35408            282
197h/75    "              1012                                                  1.60            768.1            480
1975/76 (Estimate)        1.11                                                  1.54         1,089.7             708
1976/77 (Forecast)        1.05           455.8               434
1977/78    if             1.15           464.8               h04
1978/79                   1.00            320.8              321
1979/80                   1.00           316.0               316
1980/81                   1.20            425.0              354
1/  Deficit is defined as the difference between consumption and local production of finished fertilizer
products. Deficits for 1973/7h to 1980/81 are from Annex 2-4.
2/ Taken from Table 2 (only for products, excludes raw materials).
3/ The decline in the projected average price per ton of nutrient from 1976/77 through 1979/80 is due
to two factors:
(a) the increasing share of potassium (K?0) in the nutrient deficit (from 48% in 1976/77 to 80c
in 1979/80); potassium, on a nutrient weight basis ($/ton of nutrient), is cheaper than nitrogen and
and phosphate; and
(b) the decline in fertilizer and phosphate rock prices during 1976/77 through 1978/79.
H r-
Industrial Projects Department
June 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
FOREIGN EXCHANGE COST OF FERTILIZER CONSUMPTION 1/
(in millions of constant 1975 U5$)
Fiscal Year Ending March 31                                 Case I - All Proiects Completed as Scheduled 2/               Case II - One Year Delay in Projects to be Commissioned 1977/78 and Onwards 3/
1977       1978       1979        1980       1981            1977                 1978                  1979                   1980             1981
Nutrient
A.  Nitrogen (N)                                              24
1.  Imported Products -                                  248        209          40         -           -              248                 266                    250                   219              t12
2.  Imported Materials                                   140        174         228        268         288             140                  167                   193                   232              269
Sub-total                                         388        383         268        268         288             388                 433                    443                   451              -381
B. Phosphate (P205)
1.  Imported Products 6/                                  65         60          78         78         117              65                   64                    94                    90              117
2.  Imported Materials 7/                                173        188         195        200         218             173                  185                   187                   194              218
Sub-total                                         238        248         273        278         335             238                  249                   281                   284              335
C.  Potassium  (K20)
1.  Imported Products 8/                                  94        112         125        143         161              94                  112                   125                   143              161
D.  Total Foreign Exchange Cost                              720         743        666         689        784             720                  794                   849                    878              877
Average Foreign Exchange Cost in
Constant 1975 $/nutrient ton consumed                  187        162        123         109        117             187                  173                   157                    144              131
Price inflators  (1975/76 = 100)                         112        122         132        143         153             112                  122                   132                   143              153
E.  Total Foreign Exchange Cost in Current us$               806         906        879         985      1,200             806                  969                 1,121                 1,256             1,342
Average Foreign Exchange Cost in Current
$/nutrient ton consumed                               209         197        163         161        179             209                  211                   207                    206              200
F. FOB Price Assumpqons (constant 1975
$/metric ton) -
1.  Phosphate Rock                                        65         55          45         40          40
2.  TSP                                                  170        155         150        150         150
3.  Urea                                                 260        215         160        160         160
4.  Muriate of Potash                                     70         70          65         65          65
1/  Consumption as projected inAnnex 2-4. The imported products above correspond to the deficitsinAnnex 2-4and need not equal actual imports.
2/ All on-going projects and proposed new projects but excluding Trombay V, Paradeep, Mathura and Korba.
3/  See Annex 2-4 for list of projects scheduled for commissioning in FY 1977/78 and onwards.  Estimated production for this case are shown in  Annex 2-4.
4/  Based on FOB price forecasts for Grea (467 N) plus $25 per ton of urea for ocean transport.
5/  Based on US$67 (constant 1975 dollars) worth of imported materials per ton of N product.  Derived from the cost of fuel oil at $55/ton (equivalent to US$61/ton of N) plus 10%
for other materials.
6/ Based on FOB price forecasts for TSP (46% P205) plus $30/ton for ocean freight.
7/  Based on Bank FOB price forecasts for phosphate rock plus $30/ton for ocean freight multiplied by a factor of 3.9 (3 tons of rock/ton of P205 plus 30% of the rock cost for other                                 p
materials) to arrive at CIF cost of imported materials per ton of P205 produced.  One-third of production is assumed to utilize domestic phosphate rock and materials which have                                 M
no foreign exchange cost component.
8/  Based on Bank FOB price forecasts for muriate of potash plus $40/ton for ocean freight multiplied by factor of 1.7 to arrive at CIF price per ton of K20.
9/  May 27, 1975 Bank commodity price forecasts through calendar year 1978 (1978/79), with prices remaining the same (except for phosphate rock) in real terms thereafter.  Prices
during 1975/76 are as follows: Phosphate Rock - $70/ton; TSP - $250/ton; urea - $300/ton; and potash - $70/ton.
Indus trial Projects Department
June 175



ANNEX 5-1
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
DESCRIPTION AND ANALYSIS OF FCI SUB-PROJECTS
1.        Five sub-projects of the Fertilizer Corporation of India are
proposed for consideration under the Fertilizer Industry Credit along with
other sub-projects described in Annexes 5-2 to 5-9. The total cost of the
FCI sub-projects are estimated at Rs 616 million (US$79.0 million), including
Rs 308 million (US$39.5 million) foreign exchange cost.  The main purpose
of the sub-projects is to improve capacity utilization in FCI plants
(Table 1). The sub-projects are expected to be completed within three
years. Following is a description of those sub-projects.
I.  DURGAPUR INPLANT POWER GENERATOR
Introduction
2.        In the fertilizer plants even slight interruption of power results
in stoppage of continuous processes whose restarting period is considerable,
even if power is restored immediately. Further, their delicate machinery is
susceptible to damage from frequency variations and voltage dips. Moreover,
continuous high temperature and high pressure in process fluids are critical
for fertilizer plants. Any interruption in power supply causes sl.dden loss
of temperature and pressure in the vessels and pipelines, thus caasing thermal
and mechanical stresses. In plants using the partial oxidization process, the
power dips may pose an explosion hazard.
Durgapur Situation
3.        Recurrence of power failures, voltage, dips and fluctuations has been
common in the Durgapur unit of FCI, leading to production losses as well
considerable damage to equipment. Durgapur has also been affected by mechanical
problems ever since it commenced production in 1973/74, and those problems have
not yet been fully resolved. The plant has an installed capacity of 152,000
TPY of N in the form of 330,000 TPY of urea, but has not been able to operate
at even 20% capacity thus far.
4.        Power supply problems have compounded the mechanical problems of
Durgapur. From the past record, it is estimated that the plant loses at
least 22-day production a year, i.e., at least 20,000 tons of urea, because
of power problems. At the current ex-factory price of Rs 1,183 (US$152)
per ton of urea in India, the production loss amounts to about Rs 23.7 million
(US$3 million) a year.



ANNEX 5-1
Page 2
Existing System
5.        The existing steam supply consists of three coal-fired service
boilers each with an effective capacity of 55' tons/hr and a rated capacity
of 60 tons/hr at 40 atm pressure. These boilers, in addition to supplying
process steam, are used to meet the steam demand of the existing three
turbine generators each with 0.75 MW nominally rated capacity which at
present supply the "emergency and safety load" required to save critical
equipment from severe damage in case of power failure.
6.        Durgapur requires steam at three pressures for its processes:
(1) high pressure steam at 135 ata; (2) medium pressure steam at 34 ata; and
(3) low prassure steam at 4 ata.  Currently the low and medium pressure
steam is derived from the high pressure steam. As a result, any shortage of
high pressure steam is reflected in the low and medium pressure steam.  It
is estimated that Durgapur    at p-esent has a high pressure steam shortage
of 40 tons/hr and a medium pressure steam shortage of 30 tons/hr. Therefore,
it is necessary to augment steam supply to maintain production on a continuous
basis.
Proposed System
7, *After studying various alternatives to solve power and steam
supply problems, Development Consultants Private Ltd., a competent Indian
consulting firm, has recommended the following: (1) installation of one 15
*1 single, automatic extraction condensing turbine generator; (2) addition
of two 60 ton/hr capacity boilers each raising steam at 135 ata and 5000°, along with
related facilities as well as modification of the existing steam generation
system. About 40 tons/hr of high piressure steam from the new boilers would
be fed directly to process and about 30 tons/hr would be extracted from the
turbine for supply to process. The balance steam would be passed to the
condensing section of the power generation equipment. It is assumed that
steam generators, turbine, boiler feed pumps and drives, a portion of
power cycle piping, valves, support, control and instrumentation would be
imported. The total cost of the proposed sys-tem is estimated at Rs 161.7
million (US$20.7 million), including Rs 68 mi:Llion (US$8.7 million) in
foreign exchange (Table 2).
Power Requirement
8.        The following table shows the power requirements of various
units of Durgapur:
Power Requirement (MW)
kmmonia Plant                                               9
Urea Plant                                                  7
Steam and Power Generation Units & Auxiliaries              4
Miscellaneous                                               1
21



ANNEK 5-1
Page 3
Out of the 21 MW of power required, 15 MW constitute the protective load --
that is the quantity essential to safeguard the plant from production
loss and repeated shocks from power supply problems, maintain continuity
to main processes and avoid prolonged time required for restarting. Though
the protective loan will not be adequate to help run the plant at full
capacity, it will at least enable the plant to run continuously critical
processes which cannot be restarted and brought into production easily
after interruptions of power supply. Further, with the implementation
of the proposed system, the existing three small turbine generators could
serve as standby after the much-needed maintenance work. They will come
into operation when either the purchased power source or the new inplant
power generators run into problems, thus always providing two separate
sources of power for critical requirement.
Contracted Power Supply
9.        Currently the fertilizer plant has an agreement with Durgapur
Projects Ltd. (DPL) for the purchase of 16 MW in the first year of
operation (1973/74) rising to 23 MW in the tenth year. Considering the
estimated total power requirement of 21 MW and the proposed inplant genera-
tion of 15 MW, it will still be necessary to purchase 6 MW from DPL. To
meet this demand for outside power without paying any significant penalty,
it will be necessary to negotiate with DPL a billable demand of 75% of the
contract demand which could be 8-10 MW. However, during maintenance work
of the proposed generators over 45-60 days in a year, it will be necessary
to meet most of power requirements from DPL. Therefore, this should be
negotiated and maintenance work scheduled suitably taking into account the
availability of extra power from DPL.
Cost-Benefit Analysis
10.       As noted in para. 4, the proposed sub-project is estimated to
augment production of Durgapur by at least 20,000 tons of urea valued at
the present ex-factory price about Rs 23.7 million. The incremental
production costs are estimated at Rs 16.5 million (US$2.1 million) excluding
depreciation.   As for total benefits, to the additional revenue from
incremental production should be added the net savings in total power costs
to Durgapur because of producing 15 MW of power internally rather than
purchasing it from outside, and the net savings in maintenance costs for
the entire plant because of uninterrupted power supply. It is estimated
that Durgapur will be able to produce power at 10.5 paise per kwh compared
to the recently revised price for outside power of 15.85 paise per kwh.
Because of this differential, the annual power cost saving to Durgapur would
be at least Rs 6.4 million (US$0.8 million).  Further, the net savings in
maintenance costs for the plant from uninterrupted power supply is estimated
at Rs 25 million (US$3.2 million) at least. Thus the direct and indirect
net benefits from the inplant power generation system would be Rs 55.1
million (US$7.1 million). The financial rate of return for the project is
18% and the economic rate of return, 26%. The basis for the calculation
of financial and economic rates is detailed in Tables 3 and 4.   However,
there are certain benefits which cannot be calculated in monetary terms.
For example, without the proposed sub-project, equipment is most likely to
age faster because of frequent power fluctuations, dips and failures.



ANNEX 5-1
Page 4
Further, due to frequent shut downs, the costly catalysts (Durgapur uses
8 tyes of catalysts) and refractory lining may be damaged. These problems
would definitely lead to additional production losses and increases in
production costs.
II.  GORAKHPUR INPLANT POWER GENERATOR
11.       The Gorakhpur unit of FCI was commissioned in 1967/68 with an
annual installed capacity of 80,000 tons of N. The unit has two trains
of ammonia and two trains of urea. In terms of urea, it has an installed
capacity of 160,000 tons per year (TPY). A third unit of ammonia as well
as urea are currently being added.  Vihen the expansion is completed in
1975/76, the annual urea capacity will reach 285,000 TPY. In terms of N,
the annual capacity will increase by 51,000 tons to 131,000 tons.   The
expansion work is undertaken with the IDA Credit (279-IN) of US$10 million
equivalent which became effective in early 1972.  The total cost of the
expansion program is estimated at Rs 191 million (US$24.5 million eqlIivalent).
12.       The Gorakhpur uni-t has been facing difficulties in recent years
due to unreliable power supply from the Uttar Pradesh State Electricity
Board (UPSEB) from which it draws power. The problem has been compounded
by variation in frequency and voltage dips. Power cuts to the extent
of 50% of the contracted quantity has been common for about three months
in a year.  This situation -s likely to continue in the future.  In that
case, when Gorakhpur expansi..on is completed next year, the annual production
loss because of power supply problems is likely to be 30,000 tons of urea
which at the current ex-factory price of Rs. 1,183 (US$152) per ton, is
worth about Rs 35.5 million (US$4.6 million eq). Other benefits are: (1) an
estimated net saving in power costs of Rs 2.1 million (US$0.3 million); and
(2) at least a net saving of Rs 25 million (US$3.2 million) in maintenanc6
costs for the plant.
Existing System
13.       At present there is no inplant power generation facility at
Gorakhpur and all steam generated is used by process.  There are three
coal-fired boilers generating steam at approximately 41 ata and 4180C.
The maximum steam generating: capacity of these boilers is 45 tons/hr each.
However, since the boilers have been operating for about eight years, it
is likely that their effective generating capacity would decline to about
40 tons/hr.
Proposed System
14.       Under the proposed system, two new steam units of 55 tons/hr each
will be installed to generate steam at 105 ata and 5050C. (The steam
parameters could be changed to approximately 106 ata and 538-5h4cC if
necessary.) In addition, the following power generating units will be
installed: (1) a 112.5 MW single automatic controlled extraction condensing
turbine generator set, having throttle steam at 105 ata, 5050C and bleeding
at 41 ata and 41l3C; and (2) a 12.5 MW double extraction turbine generator set,



ANNEX 5-1
Page 5
at 14 ata and 2.50C. The existing steam generating units are proposed to
be used to supplement the new system. Most of the equipment for the proposed
sub-project has been ordered. The total cost of the sub-project is estimated
at Rs 184 million (US$23.5 million) including Rs 8h.7 million (US$10.8
million) in foreign exchange (Table 5). The total coal requirement of the
new system is estimated at 223,000 tons per year on a 330-day operation
basis. Coal is available from Kamnapura coalfields of the National Coal
Development Corporation. Railway and road facilities exist for transportation
of coal from there to Gorakhpur.
Total Power Demand
15.       The power requirement of Gorakhpur will reach 54 MW  by 19,5/76
when the expansion project is commissioned. Currently, the project authori-
ties have a contract with UPSEB for purchasing about 38 MW of power. With
the installation of the generating units with a total capacity of 25 MW,
the normal average demand for UPSEB power would be 29 MW. However, during
the outage of one 12.5 MW inplant set, the demand on UPSEB would go up to
41.5 MW. It is therefore assumed that the new contract with UPSEB would
be for a maximum demand of 42.5 MW. Out of this, according to the existing
FCI stipulation, only 75% (i.e. 32 MW) will be used to calculate the minimum
billable demand even if the actual use of UPSEB power by Gorakhpur is less
than that. Therefore, the difference between the billable demand and normal
average requirement from UPSEB (after the Gorakhpur inplant power generator
is installed) would be 3 MW, and a penalty payment will have to be made on
this. At current UPSEB power rate of 18 paise/kwh, it amounts to Rs 4.3
million a year (US$0.6 million). This is an insignificant penalty to pay
compared to the benefits that will accrue from having inplant power genera-
tion facilities. Further, it is to be noted that the inplant facilities
will be able to generate power cheaper at 14.85 paise/kwh, assuming a coal
cost of Rs 100/ton. This will result in a saving of about Rs 6.4 million
(us$0.8 million) annually from internally 25 MW of power. The financial
rate of return for this sub-project is 14% and the economic rate of return,
22%. Details of calculation of the rates of return are given in Tables 3
and 6.



ANNEX 5-1
Pageo
IV. TROMBAY STEAM GENERATING AND WATER TREATIMET PLANTS
Introduction
16.       The Trombay unit of FCI was commissioned in 1965/66 to
produce mainly urea and ammonium nitrate phosphate ("suphala").  In terms
of nutrient tons, its installed capacity is 81,000 tons of N and 36,000 tons
of P. Trombay is the only FCI uniL which produces complex fertilizers at
present. Five of its other units produce only N fertilizers. The Trombay
modernization project now nearing completion will raise the N capacity to
113,000 tons and P capacity to 54,000 tons by 1975/76. Under implementa-
tion is also the Trombay IV Expansion Project being financed with IDA
Credit (81-IN).   It is expected to be commissioned in 1977/78 when the
N capacity of the Trombay unit wil:L be further raised to 188,000 tons
and P capacity to 129,000 tons.  Another major expansion, Trombay V, is at
an advanced stage of planning to boost the N capacity by 119,000 tons to
307,000 tons by 1979/80 or 1980/81.
17.       Trombay's performance has improved in recent years, with
the capacity utilization reaching :Ln 1974/75 about 83% for N and 89% for
P (Table 1).
Steam Requirement
18.       The steam requirements of the existing Trombay project are met
by oil/gas-fired boilers but those boilers have become old and require
major repairs. Further, Trombay IVT would require considerable steam
for process.
19.       Under Trombay IV, Rs 17.:L rillion (US$2.2 million), including
Rs 9.4 million (US$1.2 million) in foreign exchange, was earmarked for a
steam generating unit with two ceaL-fired boilers each of 40 tons/hr
capacity. Further, a water treatment plant, a related facility, was
allocated Rs 1.5 million (US$0.2 mLllion), including Rs 0.8 million (US$0.1
million) in foreign exchange. In addition, coal and ash handling facilities
to serve the steam generating system were allocated Rs 6 million (US$0.8
million), including Rs 2.7 million (US$0.4 million) in foreign exchange.
However, subsequent review of the proposed steam generating facilities by
Development Consultants Private Ltd. and IDA staff have led to the following
recommendations: (1) the boilers be fuel-fired instead of coal-fired as the
timely deliveries of coal are not assured because of transport problems;
(2) coal and ash handling facilities be dropped as they are not necessary for
the fuel-fired boilers; and (3) one large boiler of 170 ton/hr capacity
be installed instead of two boilers of 40 tons/hr capacity each so that the
needs of not only Trombay IV but aLso the existing Trombay project could
be met, and equipment standardizat-Lon could be achieved with the boiler
system proposed for Trombay V. FCI has accepted these recommendations
which are realistic.



ANNEX 5-1
Page 7
20.       The modified steam generating unit along with the water treatment
plant is estimated to cost Rs 100 million (US$12.8 million), including Rs 73.7
million (US$9.5 million) in foreign exchange (Table 7). Out of the total
foreign exchange cost, the proposed credit will cover US$7.8 million and the
remaining US$1.7 million has alreacdy been provided for under the credit for
Trombay IV.
21.       The expanded steam generation facilities are crucial for Trombay IV
and the existing Trombay plant. It is estimated that but for the expanded
system which will cost Rs 75.4 million (US$9.7 million) more than originally
estimated, the production from the existing Trombay plant would decline by at
least 15% on an average in the future if it continues to rely on its old steam
generating facilities. This production loss is equivalent to 10,500 tons of
urea and 24,000 tons of ammonium nitrate phosphate.
22.       Details of the calculation of the financial and economic rates of
return are given in Tables 3 and 8 . The financial rate of return on the
incremental cost is 15% and the economic rate of return, 26%.
V.   AMMONIA STORAGE AND TANK WAGONS
Ammonia Storage
23.       The existing ammonia storage facilities at FCI plants are limited
(800-1,500 tons each) except at Trombay where the storage capacity is about
1S,000 tons. Past experience of FCI shows that the operation of the ammonia
plant and the downstream units cannot always be synchronized, especially in
large-scale fertilizer projects. This problem could be overcome to a large
extent by providing for large-scale intermediate storage facilities for
ammonia at selected locations.
24.       Provision of large-scale ammonia storage capacity will also facilitate
movement of ammonia between various FCI plants as well as with outside units.
To some extent, ammonia is transported at present from Kalol (IFFCO Plant) to
Trombay as well as Madras using about 50 tank wagons. Adequate intermediate
storage facilities supplemented by more ammonia tank wagons would further
facilitate such movement.
25.       FCI is proposing to install four medium-sized storage stations in
strategic locations with a total capacity of 25,000 tons of ammonia. The
capital cost of this is estimated at Rs 133.8 million (US$17.2 million),
including Rs 62.8 million (US$8.1 million) in foreign exchange.
Ammonia Tank Wagons
26        Currently 50 ammonia tank wagons are in use, of which 25 are owned
by FCI and the rest by IFFCO. The IFFCO-owned wagons are expected to be
acquired gradually by FCI. In addition, FCI has already placed orders for 15



ANNEX 5-1
Page
more wagons under the PGIP part of IDA Credit 481-IN.  FCI has estimated that
it would need 35 more tank wagons (each with 3_D-ton capacity) to move ammonia
from surplus to deficit units. They are expected to be purchased from Bharat
Heavy Electricals (BHE). BHE is capable of producing 6-7 such tank wagons per
month.  The proposed credit will cover only the foreign exchange cost (US$J
million) of producing the required 35 wagons. The total cost of the wagons
is estimated at Rs 26.1 million (US$3.3 million).
Benefits
The establishment of ammonia storage stations supplemented by
increasing the number of tank wagons will have considerable impact on fertilizer
production in the country. These facilities will help store 25,000 tons of
ammonia and transport on an average at least 150 tons of ammonia per day, con-
sidering the time for turn around, waiting and maintenance. In a year, FCI
units will be assured of at least 150 TPD i.e. 49,500 tons of additional ammonia
delivery a year from surplus plants in India and also from imports. This much
ammonia, if used entirely to produce urea, results in an additional production
of about 85,0oo tons valued at the present prices at Rs 101 million (US$13
million) a year.
2,1.      In addition, those facilities will also help in the proposed experi-
mental development of direct application of ammonia, and the proposed expansion
of small-scale granulation units in various parts of the country.
29..      Details of calculation of rates of return on this sub-project is
given in Tables 3 and 9 . The financial and economic rates of return are
estimated at 21% and 37% respectively.
VI.  POLLUTION CONTROL AND OTHER EQUIPMEaIT
Pollution Control
FCI is proposing to establish a Central Pollution Control Wing to
advise its fertilizer plants o0 bringing down gaseous and liquid effluents
to promote environmental protection. The control unit will also advise the
plan-ts on monitoring pollution levels. The unit will need modern equipment
for the detection of dust traces, acid gases, etc.  Those equipment are
estimated to cost Rs 2 million (US$0.3 million) in foreign exchange.
31.       Non-Destructive Testing (NDT)
FCI's Planning and Design Organization has a non-destructive testing
(NDT) laboratory which serves aot only FCI plants out also outside fertilizer
projects. There is now a regular NDT schedule for each of the operating units
as well as projects under implementation. With the increasing number of
fertilizer projects in India, Lt has beccre necessary to strengthen the NDT
laboratory central cell and al3o to open regional cells at strategic centers.



ANNEX 5-1
Page 9
While the central cell will deal with long-range NDT programs, the daughter
cells will meet the short-term and emergency needs of operating units. To
strengthen and expand the NDT laboratory, it is necessary to acquire modern
equipment for industrial vibration testing, noise analysis, ultrasonic
inspection, etc. In addition, two selected technicians of the NDT laboratory
would need training in the NDT laboratories of Europe, Japan and the US. The
foreign exchange cost of equipment and training is estimated at Rs 6 million
(us$0.8 million).
Industrial Projects Department
November 1975



CAPACITY AND PRODUCTION OF FCI PLANTS
Year of
Commis-        Capacity                     N Production                            N Capacity Utilization (%)
sioning       N       P       1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75        1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75
FCI                                     --------------------('000 tons) --------------------
I. Operating Units
Sindri                 1951/52       751/    -          63        56         59         53           84         75         79         71
Nangal                 1960/61       80       -1/       56        53         62         40           70         66         78         503/
Trombay                1965/66       81      36-'       61         63        58         60           75         78         72         74
Gorakhpur              1967/68       80       -         76         69        64         72           95         86         80         90
Namrup                 1968/69       45       -         30         35        36         40           67         78         80         89
Durgapur               1973/74      1272/    -           -          -         6         17            -          -          5         13
Total                       488     36        286        276        285       282
1/ Production and capacity utilization were as follows:
Production       Capacity Utilization
('000 tons)               OX)
1970/71                  25                     67
1971/72                  33                     92
1972/73                  37                    103
1973/74                  32                     89
1974/75                  32                     89                                                                                        b 3
2/  Excluding 25,000 tons of capacity which needs upgrading.                                                                                 CD
3/  Capacity utilization declined mainly because of power shortages.
SOURCE:  Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals
Industrial Projects Department
July 1975



ANNEX 5-1
TABLE 2
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
FCI - DURGAPUR INPLANT POWER GENERATOR
CAPITAL COST ESTThATES
-----Rs million------ US$ million-----
Foreign  Local   Total   Foreign  Local  Total
Equipment and Spares                    48,2   13.3    61.5        6.2    1.7    7.9
Ocean Freight                            2.9    -        2.9       0.4    -       0.4
Duties and Taxes                         -     20.4    20.4        -       2.6    2.6
Inland Transportation                    -      2.1      2.1       -      0.3    0.3
Design and Engineering                   -      8.9     8.9        -      1.1    1.1
Civil Works                              -      7.8     7.8        -      1.0    1.0
Erection and Commissioning- v            0.4      9      8.3       0.1    1.0    1.0
Base Cost Estimates (BCE)          51.5   60      111.9        6      7.7   1h.3
Contingencies: Physical(10% of BCE)    5.2    6.0    11.2          0.7    0.8    1.5
Price (20%)             11.3   13.3    2466        l.      1.7    3.1
Installed Cost                      MT6   T 79.7   W777        8T7   10.2   18^9
Working Capital                          -      0.5      0$5       -       0.1    0.1
Project Cost                        M     T 80.2   148.2      T07   10.3   19.0
Financial Charges                        -     13.5    13.5        -      1.7    1.7
Total Financing Required                 9237          Z7    12.0   20.
1/ Including supervision and preoperating expenses.
2/ Ineludes Rs 16 (US$2) million of indirect foreign exchange.
Industrial Projects Department
November 1.975



ANNEX '-1
Table 3
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
FCI SUB-PROJECTS
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC
RATES OF RETURN
The following assumptions have been used to calculate rates
of return:
Prices and Production Costs/
Financial          Economic
---- s/Ton-
Urea                                        l,150              1,44h3
Production Cost of Urea                       822                674
Ammonium Nitrate Phosphate (ANP)            1,h60 o,1446
Production Cost of ANP                      1,100                723
Calcium Ammonium Nitrate (CAN)                652                78h
Production Cost of CAN                        420                353
Ammonia                                     2,400              2,490
Life of Sub-Projects
The life of inplant power generators is assumed to be 25 years
whereas the life of fertilizer sub--projects is assumed to be 12 years.
Start of Production
All sub-projects except Nangal Product Diversification are assumed
to be commissioned April 1, 1978. The Nangal sub-project is expected to be
commissioned October 1, 1978.
Production Build-Up
As all sub-projects except Nangal are for removal of bottlenecks, they
are expected to yield full benefits from the first year of operation itself.
However, in the case of Nangal, the production build-up as a percentage of
capacity in the new unit to produce ANP is assumed to be gradual: First year,
75%; second year, 80%; and from third year onfards, 90Q.
17 Excluding depreciation, financial charges and taxes.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANNEX 5-1
Table h
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
INPUTS FOR FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
FCI: DURGAPUR INPLANT POWER GENERATOR
(Rs million)
-------Financial-           - ------------  ------------- Econo ic -------------
Fiscal   Capit&l       Uperatlng                 Capital       uperating
Years     Cost           Costs        Benefits    Cost           Costs        Benefits
C1              Cl           Bl         C1              C1           B1
1975/76    32.0              -                     28.0
1976/77    81.0             -                      71.0
1977/78    h8.7             --                     h2.3             -
1978/79      -            16.5          5h4h         -            13.5          60.3
1979/80      -            16.5          5h.4         -            13.5          60.3
1980/81      -            16.5          5h.14        -            13.5          60.3
1981/82      -            16.5          54.4         -            13.5          60.3
1982/83      -            16.5          54.4         -            13.5          60.3
1983/84      -            16.5          54.4         -            13.5          60.3
1984/85      -            16.5          5h.h         -            13.5          60.3
1985/86      -            16.5          54.4         -            13.5          60.3
1986/87      -            16.5          54.h         -            13.5          60.3
1987/88      -            16.5          54.4         -            13.5          60.3
1988/89      -            16.5          54.h         -            13.5          60.3
1989/90   -84.61/         16.5          54.h      -74h.0/         13.5         60.3
1/  Including salvage value of the generator after operation for the life of the
fertilizer plant (12 years), and the recovery of initial working capital.
Financial               Economic
Rate of  Return (%)         18  .                     26%
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANNEX 5-1
TABLE 5
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
FCI - GORAKHPUR INPLAI1T POWER GENERATOR
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES
--   Rs million ------   -----US$ million-----
Foreign  Local   Total   Foreign  Local  Total
Equipment and Spares                    60.6   11.7    72.3         7.8    1.5    9.3
Ocean Freight                            3.1    -        3.1        0.4            0.h
Duties and Taxes                         -     22.2    22.2         -      2.8    2.8
Inland Transportation                    -      2.4      2.4        -      0.3    0.3
Design and Engineering                   -     10.0    10.0         -      1.3    1.3
Civil Works                              -       7.9     7.9        -      1.0    1.0
Erection and Commissioning               0.5    9.0      9.5        0.1    1.1    1.2
Base Cost Estimates (BCE)           64.2   63.2   127.4        8.2    8.1   16.3
Contingencies: Physical(10% of BCE)    6.4    6.3    12.7           0.8    0.8    1.6
Price (20%)             14.1   14.0    28.1         1.8    1.8    3.6
Installed Cost                      84.7   83.5  -1682        10.8   10.7   2105
Working Capital                          -       Oo8     0.8        -      0.1    0.1
Project Cost                        7I77 4.3   169.0          10.8   10.8   2.6
Financial Charges                        -      15.0    15.0        -      1.9    1.9
Total Financing Required                      3    18. 0       17.8/         2.5
1/ Including Rs 23 million (US$3 million) of indirect foreign exchange costs.
Industrial Projects Department
November 1975



ANNEX 5-1
Table 6
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
INPUTS FOR FINANCIAL AND ECONCMIC RATES OF RETURN
FCI: GORAKHPUR INPLANT POWER GENERATOR
(Rs million)
----- Financial------ ----------- Economic -------------
Capital        Operating                  Capital         Operating
Fiscal      Cost           Costs        Benefits    Cost              Costs        Benefits
Years        Cj             C)             B)          C)              Cj         B_
1975/76    92.0              _                         81.0             _              _
1976/77    7h4o                             -         65.0              _ 
1977/78    18.0              _              -         15.8              -             -
1978/79      -              24.7          61.6          -              20.2          70.4
1979/80      -              2h.7          61.6          -              20.2          70.4
1980/81      -              2h.7          61.6'         -              20.2          70.4
1981/82      -              24.7          61.6          -              20o2          70.4
1982/83      -              24.7          61.6          -              202          70.4
1983/8h      -              2h.7          61.6          -              20.2          70.4
1984/85      -              24.7          61.6          -              20.2          70.h
1985/86      -              2h.7          61G6                         20.2           70.4
1986/87      -              24.7          61.6          -              20.2          70.h
1987/88      -              2).7           61.6        __              20.2           70.h
1988/89      -              2h.7          61.6          -              20.2          70.4
1989/90   -97.0-1/          24.7          61.6       -85.01/           20.2          70.4
1/  Including salvage value of the power generator after operation for the life of
the fertilizer plant (12 years), and the recovery of initial working capital.
Financial                   Economic
Rate of Return (%)                                                       22%
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANNEX 5-1
TABLE 7
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
FCI - TROMBAY STIAM GENERATING AND WATER TREATMENT UNITS
(CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES
-    Rs million ------   -----US$ million-----
Foreign  Local   Total   Foreign  Local  Total
Equipment and Spares                    55O0    5.3    60o3         7.0    0.7    7.7
Ocean Freight                           0o6    -          o.6       0.1    -       Ool
Duties and Taxes                         -       409    4h0         -      0.5    0.5
Inland Transportation                    -      15      1.5        -      0.2    0.2
Design and Engineering                   -       2.7     2.7        -      0.3    0.3
Civil Works                              -       2.5     2.5        -      0.3    0.3
Erection and Commissioning               0.2    2.5      2.7        0.1    0.3    0.4
Base Cost Estimate                  3      l748X   T3          7.2    2.3   -9*7
Contingencies: Physical(10% of 3CE)    5.6   18         7.4        0.7    0.2    0.9
Price (20%)             12.3    4.0    16.3         1.6    0.5    2.1
Installed Cost                      73.7   2  3    9                 7 3.1   127
Working Capital                          -       lo0     1.0        -      0.1    0.1
Project Cost                        73.7   2533    99.0       -9       3 2   12.7
Financial Charges                        -       lo0     lo0               0.2    0.2
Total Financing Required            7        26-3   lOo0              T 4   129
1/ Including Rs 23 million (US$3 million) of indirect foreign exchange.
Industrial Projects Department
November 1975



ANNEX 5-1
Table E
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
INPUTS FOR FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
FCI: TROMBAY STEAM GENERATING PLANT
(Rs million)
-      - Financial ---------         -------- Economic ----------
Capital  Operating                   Capital  Operating
Fiscal          Cost      Costs    Benefits          Cost       Costs    Benefits
Years            Cl        Cl         Bl              Cl         Cl         DJ
1975/76          35.O 0                _              33.6        _          _
1976/77          23.7        -                        22.8        -          -
1977/78          16.7        -         -              16.0        -          -
1978/79           -        28.0       47.1             -         19.6       49.9
1979/80           -        28.0       47.1             -         19.6       49.9
1980/81           -        28.0       47.1             -         19.6       h9.9
1981/82           -        28.0       47.1             -         19.6       49.9
1982/83           -        28.0       47.1             -         19.6       L9.9
1983/84           -        28.0       47.1             -         19.6       49.9
198b/85           -        28.0       47.1             -         19.6       149.9
1985/86           -        28.0       47.1             -         19.6       49.9
1986/87           -        28.0       47.1             -         19.6       49.9
1987/88           -        28.0       47.1             -         19.6       49.9
1989/90          -0.8. '    28.0      47.1            -o.a ./    19.6       49.9
1/  Excluding Rs 13.3 million (US$1.7 million) allocated under Trombay IV credit.
2/ Recovery of incremental working capital.
Financial                 Economic
Rate of Return (%)                       1                           2%
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANNEX 5-1
Table 9
INDIA: FERTI]LIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
INPUTS FOR FINANCIAI, AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
FCI:  AMMONIA STORAGE AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
(Rs million)
- -      - Financial ---------      --------- Economic ----------
Capital  Operating                  Capital  Operating
Fiscal         Cost       Costs    Benefits         Cost       Costs    Benefits
Years           Cl         Cj        Ell             Cl         Cj        Bi
1975/76         32.0        -          -             30.7        _
1976/77         6400        _          _             61.4        -
1977/78         63.9        -                        61.4        -          -
1978/79          -         57.1     - 58 .2           -         46.9     123.3
1979/80           -        5701       908.2            -        46.9     123.3
1980/81          -         57.1       98.2            -         46.9     123.3
1981/82          -         57,1       98.2             -        46.9      123.3
1982/83          -         57,1       9?8.2            -        46.9      123.3
1983/8h          -         57,1       9)8.2           -         46.9     123.3
198V85           -         57.1       98.2            -         46.9     123.3
1985/86          -         57.1       98.2            -         46.9     123.3
1986/87          -         57.1      '98.2            -         4609     123.3
1987/88          -         57o1      cP8.2            -         46.9     12303
1988/89          -         57.1       98.2            -         46.9     123.3
1989/90          -2,00A    57.1       98.2            -20,QL    46.9     123.3
1/ Recovery of initial working capital
Financial                  Economic
Rate of Return (%)           20%                         37%
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANNEX 5-2
Page 1
INDIA - FFRTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
NEYVELI - PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
1.        The Neyveli Lignite Corporation (NLC),/a GOI-owned enterprise is
resnonsible for the exploitation of the lignitel/ mines located in a 260
square kilometer (km) area about 175 km southeast of Madras in the State of
Tamil Nadu. The total lignite deposit is estimated at 2 billion tons, but
lignite mining, which has produced a cumulative output of about 32 million
tons since 1957, has been limited within a 1  square km area estipated to
contain 200 million tons of lignite with a low overburden ratioa.4 The
lignite seam is thin, only about 16 meters and is located between about 60
meters of overburden (mostly tough abrasive sandstone) above and the high
pressure artesian aquifers below. About 10 tons (4 cubic meters) of over-
burden (earth, rocks) and 25 tons of water have to be moved for each ton of
lignite produced in the present mine cut but the overburden ratio is
increasing as mining proceeds towards less favorable areas.
2.        The lignite is used as fuel for a thermal power plant (600 MW
capncity), as feedstock for urca f3rtilizer production (120,000 TPY N
capacity) and as raw material for a, briquetting and carbonization plant
(380,000 TPY carbonized briquette3/ capacity). In addition, some white
china clay is recovered from the lignite mines. NLC has a clay washing
plant with a capacity of 6,000 TPY of washed white clay (sold under the
trade name - "Nekolin").
3.        The Neyveli complex -- the lignite mine, the thermal power plant,
the fertilizer plant, the briquetting plant, and the clay washing plant --
are all located in the same area. NLC provides the social infrastructure --
such as township, housing, school facilities, hospital and police services --
for the families of the employees of the company.
B. The Corporate Organization
4.        NLC is under the administrative supervision of the Department of
Mines, Ministry of Steel and Mines. The Articles of Association of the
company provides for the appointment of the Chairman and all Directors only
by the President of India. The present Chairman and Managing Director is
Mr. Yegneswaran, a mining engineer by profession. The corporation is organized
along three main operating divisions -- mines, chemicals (fertilizer, bri-
quetting and clay washing) and power -- and two staff groups -- finance and
administration. Total employment was 17,867 persons as of January 1975.
1/  L;g,nite or "brown coal" is half-hakkd coal, with about half the calorific
value of coal. The Neyveli lignite contains 50% moisture, 3-17% ash
(average of 7%) and has a calorific value of about 2,500 kcalAg.
2/ Overburden is the term used in open pit (or open cast) mining to refer to
the amount of earth or rock above the seam of lignite (or coal) being
mined. The overburden ratio refers to the weight (or volume) of earth or
rock material that must be excavated for each ton of mined product.
31 The briquette is sold under the "LECO" trade-name.



ANNEX 5-2
Page 2
C. Mining Operations
5.        Lignite mining capacity and output is determined by the earth
(overburden) removal capacity which in turn is determined mostly by the
conveyor capacity. Existing equipmxent can move about 13.2 million M3 of
overburden annually and this limit; lignite production to about 3.5 million
TPY. The annual requirements of the power plant, the fertilizer plant and
the briquetting plant is about 7 million TPY of lignite as shown below:
Annual Lignite Requirements
(Millions TPY)
Lignite Requirement        %
Power Plant (600mW)l/                 4.8                65
Fertilizer Plant2/                     0.3                 4
Briquetting PlantQ/                   1.5                20
Others (fuel for process
steam plant)2/                       0.8               11
Total                    7.4               100
1/ At 65% average load factor.
2/ At the existing attainable capacity utilization of 36%. At 90% capacity
output, lignite requirement would be 0.85 million TPY.
3/ At 90% capacity utilization.
6.        The mining capacity is being expanded in two stages:  The first
stage, to be completed by 1977/78, will raise output to 4.5 million TPY of
lignite and the second stage, to be completed by 1980/81, will increase
production to 6.5 million TPY of lijgnite.  Even if the fertilizer plant
switches to fuel oil feedstock, the estimated output of 6.5 million TPY by
1980/81 would still be slightly less than the requirements of the other
facilities (7.1 million TPY of lignite). The first stage expansion is
estimated to cost Rs 116.2 (US$15) million and all major equipment orders
have been placed. The second stage expansion will cost Rs 870 (US$112)
million and the West German Government has approved a credit for the foreign
exchange cost of this second stage program (124 million D.M. or US$50 million
equivalent). Tenders for equipment have been placed and orders are expected
to be placed before the end of this year. The projected lignite production,
and the consumption by the different nlants are shown below for both cases
where there is and where there is no conversion to fuel oil feedstock for the
fertilizer plant.



ANNEX 5-2
Page 3
CASE 1
Projected Lignite Output and Consumption with
Fertilizer Plant Usir4n  Lignite Feedstock
(in million TPY)
Lignite Consumption
Year    Lignite Output  Power Plant   Fertilizer Plant  Briguetting Plant  Others   Total
1275/76         .3             2.67            n.29              n.18             *)16      3.^O
1976/77         3.8            3.09            0.3L              0.19              0.18     3.80
1977/78         L.2            3.02            O.34              0.48              0.36     L.20
1978/79         4.5            3.47            0.3h              0.43              0.26      L.50
1979/80         5.5            3.61            0.3L              1.08              o.47     5.50
1980/81         6.5            4.32            0.34              1.30              0.54     6.50
CASE 2
Projected Lignite Output and Consumption with
Fertilizer Plant Usinp Fuel Oil Feedstock
(in million TPY)
Lignite Consumption
Year    Lignite Output  Power Plant   Fertilizer Plant  3riquetting Plant   Others   Total
1975,/76         .             2.62            O.3!              o.18               0.16     3-30
1976/77         3.8             .09            0.3L              0.19               0.18     3.80
1977/78          !.           3.30             0.20              0.48               0.22     L.20
1978/79         14.5           3.80              -               D.43              0.27      L4.50
1979/80         5.5            3.87                              1.08               o.55     5.50
1980/81         6.5            14.55             -               1.30               o.65     6.50
7.        The average lignite mining cost (1975/76) is about Rs 07 (US$6)
ner ton including provisions for depreciation, interest expense and overhead
charges. The lignite transfer Drice to the other operating units allows a
10% return on equity capital (share capital plus any positive retained
earnings) for the mining operation and the lignite is thus priced at about
Rs 55 (US$7) per ton in this report.
D.   nower Plant Operations
8.        The Power Plant has three 100 MW generators and six 50 MW units
for a total capacity of 600 MW.  Two of the 50 MJ units were modified and
starting May 197) utilized fuel oil due to the non-availability of lignite.
However, the power olant still onerates at a load factor of only 43%
(1973/7h) comnared to the norm of 65%. The power plant generates about



ANNEX 5-2
Page l!
0.7143 MWH per ton of l-gnite, while the fuel oil units provide about
3.663 MWH per ton of fuel oil. Thus, about 5.1 tons of lignite are needed
to substitute for one ton of fuel oil in power generation.  The full cost
of power generation (including depreciation and interest) is about Rs 111/
MWH based on lignite an(d Rs 289/ 9 H based on fuel oil-l
9.        Eccept for about 200 to 300 thousand MWH of power utilized within
the Neyveli complex annmally, the bulk of the output (90C during 1973/74)
is sold to the Tamil Nadu State Electricity Board (TNSEB). The most recent
pricing arrangement with the TNSEB, starting 1976/77, would price power
based on the actual full generating costs including depreciation and interest
charges, plus a 10C return on equity. The previous arrangement was based
on 1972/73 operating costs plus an 8% return on equity -- or about Rs 901MWH V
The new arrangement, based on estimated 1976/77 operating costs, would price
power based on lignite at about Rs 51MWH above costs.
10.       The projected power generation is as follows:
P:ro1ected Power Generation
(in thousand MWH)
CASE 1                                  CASE 2
(Fertilizer based on lignite)          (Fertilizer Based on Fuel Oil)
Year              Lignite-Fired    Fuel Oil-Fired       Lignite-Fired   Fuel Oil-Fired
1972/73 (Actual)          1730                                  1730              -
1973/7L (Actual)          2016               -                  2016              -
197L/75 (Estimate)        1870              280                 1870             280
l975/76 (Forecast)        1900              550                 1900             550
1976/77                   2210              51O0                2210             550
1977/78                   2160              510o                2360             550
1978/79                   2480              51,0                2710             550
1979/80                    2580             550                 2760             550
1980/81                   3090                -                 3250              -
E. Briguetting and Carbonizing Operations
11.       The briquetting plant uses about 4.6 tons of lignite to produce
one ton of carbonized briquette which is marketed under the trade name
"LECO".  Several valuable by-products, such as char dust, phenols, carbolic
acid, cresols and middle oils are also recovered in these operations. Leco
is a smokeless fuel used in the households as well as in industry. On a
calorific basis, one ton of Leco is equivalent to 4 tons of firewood or
1.3 tons of charcoal.  Leco was sold for about Rs 640 per ton (1974/75)
but will be sold for Rs $55 per ton starting 1975/76.
12.       The plant has a capacity of 380,000 TPY of Leco.  However, pro-
duction has been limited to about 25,000 tons during 1973/7b and 1974/75,
1/ 1975/76 results with lignite priced at Rs 55/ton. The electricity from
the fuel oil units a:re sold for Rs 295/MWH. The comparative power
generating cost for coal fired power plants in Tamil Nadu is about
Rs 180/41H.
2/ However, during 1974,/75 and 1975/76, the electricity (based on lignite)
sales price was raised and ranged from Rs 115-119/AWH to account for
cost increases.



ANINEX 5-2
'age >
about 7% of capacity, because of the non-availability of lignite. The
fertilizer plant, then the power plant, has priority over the briquetting
plant in terms of lignite supply. The briquetting plant has a breakeven
point of 60,; capacity utilization given a Leco price of Rs 655/ton and the
operating costs during 1975/76.
13.       The projected production of Leco is not affected by the decision
to change the feedstock of the fertilizer plant. The briquetting unit is
estimated to operate at 10% of capacity in 1975/76 and gradually reach 7,
capacity utilization by 1980/81 as more lignite becomes available (see lig-
nite allocation to the briquetting operations in section C and use a factor
of Io.6 tons lignite/ton of Leco).
F. Existing and Proposed Fertilizer Operations
1h.       The existing ammonia-urea plant has a capacity of 165,000 TPY of
urea (75,000 TPY N)0 The urea unit has four streams each with a 125 TPD urea
capacity. Though the four units-have never operated simultaneously due to
lack of ammonia, each has operated well. No problems are anticipated in
operating all four streams at the same time. The ammonia unit uses lignite
as feedstock. The original design specification envisaged using about 3 to
4 tons of lignite (containing 3-5% ash) per ton of urea0 The current lignite
quality varies from 5 to 12% ash content and although the lignite for the
fertilizer feedstock is chosen from the better quality output, the average
ash content is still about 7%. This has caused clinkering problems when the
furnace is operated at high temperatures. To eliminate this problem, the
operating temperature of the furnace has to be reduced -- thereby requiring
more lignite -- about 5.75 tons, per ton of urea production. Nonetheless,
the basic inefficiency of the process sets a limit of about 60,000 TPY urea
production, some 36% of capacity.
15.       A proposed feedstock conversion program, using fuel oil, will allow
production to reach 90% of capacity, or about 148,500 TPY of urea. The
conversion would utilize about 0.6 tons of fuel oil per ton of urea. This
implies that for fertilizer feedstock at Neyveli, one ton of fuel oil will
replace about 9.6 tons of lignite. Since only 5.1 tons of lignite are needed
to replace one ton of fuel oil in power generation, the case for the feedstock
conversion program is strong. The lignite can be used to generate more
electricity.
16.       The feedstock conversion project will cost an estimated Rs 152
(US$19.5) million including Rs 59 (US$7.5) million in foreign exchange.
Although GOI has converted some loans into equity last year (1973/7h) to ease
the debt service burden of the company, the debt equity ratio, due to
substantial cumulative losses, is about 65:35 and the company is not expected
to have significant cash generation to help finance the project. The appraisal
mission recommends that the entire capital cost of the project be provided by
GOI as equity.
17.       The comparative production costs for the existing lignite-based
operation and the proposed fuel oil-based project are shown in Table 8



ANNEX 5-2
Page 6
(financial) and Table 9 (econoric). Because of the corporate overhead
charges to cover the social infrastructure costs such as education, medical
services, etc., the estimated 1978 financial production cost (in constant
1975 rupees) of fertilizer is high, about Rs 2,102/ton of urea for the
existing operation and Rs 1,169/ton for the proposed project. Corporate
overhead charges contribute Rs 190/ton to the cost of the existing operations
and is projected to account for Rs 77/ton in the proposed project.
18.       The GOI has agreed to subsidize urea production at Neyveli
starting 1975/76. The company's urea output will not be subject to most of
the import equalisation tax and the ex-factory price will be Rs 1,500/ton
instead of Rs 1,100/ton0  This higher price will cover on the average 70F/
of the cost of production during 1975/76 through 1977/78 including corporate
overhead charges, but excluding interest payments. The proposed proiect
would reduce production cost and the financial forecast shows that the
financial and cash position of the fertilizer unit will improve substantially,
providing cashflow of about Rs 10 million annually by 1980/81.1/ In
addition, the lignite released to the power plant will increase power
output.  The additional power generation i-ill also bontribute about Rs 9 mil-
lion annually (in constant 1975 rupees -- after deducting the variable power
generating costs). Thus, some Rs 19 million annually will be added to the
company's cash flow starting 1'380/81.
19.       With the present (1975/76) international urea prices at high levels,
it would be economically advantageous for India to operate the Neyveli ferti-
lizer plant -- even with lignite as feedstock.  But as international urea
prices decline towards 1978, the economic cost of importing urea will become
lower than the economic cost.of producing urea based on lignite at the
Neyveli plant. Thus, from the economic standpoint the Neyveli plant should
not continue to operate based on lignite beyond 1978, and perhaps even earlier
considering that the power plant can utilize all the lignite that can be
mined to generate electricity at a much lower cost compared to power
generation using fuel oil.
20.       The proposed project will provide urea at an economic cost of about
Rs 960 (US$123) per ton, inclucting provisions for corporate overhead charges.
The projected CIF price in 1978 is Rs 1,h45 (US$185) per ton. Thus the
project will make the Neyveli fertilizer unit an economic producer. The
economic rate of return for the conversion. project is h1%.
1/ On the other hand, a cash outflow of Rs 45 million/year would be
incurred if the existing operation is continued.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANNEX 5-2
Table 1
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
NEYVELI - ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE CORPORATE FINANCIAL FORECASTS
A. Sales Price Assumptions
Product               In Constant 1975 Rupees                  In Current Rupees
1. Outside Sales       Power (from lignite)   Rs 135AKWH
Power (from fuel oil)  Rs 295/KWH
Urea                    Rs 1150/ton starting 1978/79           Rs 1500/ton during 1975/76-1977/78
Leco                    Rs 655/ton
2, Internal Transfers
Power                   Rs 120/MWH plus tax of Rs 12/KWH
Lignite                 Rs 55/ton
Process steam           Rs 25/ton
B. Price Inflators (from Annex 7-1 and Annex 4-5)
Year                Index                                                Year                Index
1.     1975/76                 100                                           . 19779                    132
2.     1976/77                 112                                          5.  1979/80                 143
3.     1977/78                 122                                          6.  1980/81                 153
CO Technical Coefficients
Product                               Variable Law Material and Utilities Consumption
1.  Power (from lignite)                            l.U tons lignite/MWH
2.  Power (from fuel oil)                           0.273 tons fuel oil/KWH
3. Urea (from lignite)                          a.  5.75 Ions lignite/ton of urea
b.  6.8 tons steam/ton of urea
c.  3.33 MWH/ton of urea
4. Urea (from fuel oil)                         a,  0.6 tons fuel oil/ton of urea
b.  5.17 tons steam/ton of urea
c.  1.42 KWH/ton of urea
5. Leco                                         a. 4.6 tons of lignite/ton of leco
b. 5.0 tons of steam/ton of leco
c.  0.5 MWH/ton leco
60  Lignite                                     a.  0.014 KWH/ton of lignite (plus 01 million
MWH/year of fixed consumption)
7.  Process steam                               a,  0.296 tons lignite/ton of steam
b,  0.0287 MWH/ton of steam
D. Production Costs in Constant 1975 Rupees
Products and Units
Lignite               Power (MWH)               Leco       Process
(ton)      from lignite    from fuel oil  (ton)    Steam (ton)
1 Variable Costs (Rs/Unit)
External Costs                              7,6            6.0             250,0         45,0%         1.2
Transferred Costs for:
Lignite                                    -            77.0                -         253.0         16.4
Power                                     1.6             -                 -          60.0          3.1,
Steam                                      -              -                 -         125.0
Total Variable Costs                    9.2           83.0             250,0        h83.0         21.0
2. Fixed Costs Excluding Depreciation and Interest (Rs million/year)
Corporate (socisi) Overhead2/              15.2           11.3               2.3          4°5          1.5
External Costs_                            60.8           17.7              16,7         13.5          1.8
Transferred Cost for Power                 12,0             -                 -            -
Total Fixed Costs                     88.0           29.0               19.0         18.0          3.3
1/ Net of by-product sales and recoveries,
2/ Includes power consumption estimated at 0.02 million MWH/year.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
Neyveli Fertilizer Prolect - Capital Cost Estimates2/
(in US$ Millions)
Foreign Exchange  (FX)                             Local Currency (LC)
FX                                          Local Hand-   LC                             Total
Direct    Component                                    ling of Dir-  Component   Tot&!             Local           Total
Irnlportb   o' Local                   Duties          ect Imports   of Local    Local             Purchases       Project
(CIF)     Purchases   Total FX         (40% of CIF)   (2% of CIF)   Purchases   Currency           (Delivered)    Costs
EQUIPMENT
Ammonia                           3.8         0.6        4.4                1.5             0.1          2.5          4.1               3.1            8.5
Downstream Units                  0.3         ---        0.3                0.1             ---          0.2          0.3               0.2            0.6
Offsites                          -- ---                 ---                ---             ---          1.2          1.2               1.2            1.2
Spares (7% of above)              0.3         ---        0.3                0.1             _            0.3          0.4               0.3            0.7
Sub-Total (A)              4.4        0.6         5.0               1.7             0.1           4.2          6.0               4.8           11.0
Licenses and Engineering            1.1         ---        1.1                ---             ---          1.0         10                1.0            2.1
Civil Works                         --          ---        ---                ---             ---          o.6          o.6               0.6            0.6
Erection and Supervision            0.1         ---        0.1                ---             ---          0.6          0.6               0.6            0.7
Pre-Operating Expenses              ---                    ---                ---             ---          0.4          0.4               0.4            0.14
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)           -7.Z  6.2                                  1.7             0.1 647-
Physical Contingencies (7%)         0.4         ---        0.4                0.1             ---          0.5          0.6               0.5            1.0
Price Escalation (14%)              0.8         0.1        0.9                0-3             ---          1.0                            1.1            2.2
Installed Plant Cost        {       '           0.7                           2.1 0.1                                  1.                 9.0
Additional Working Capital/        ---         ---        ---                ---             ---          1.5          1.5               1.5            1.5
Interest During Construction4/      ---         ---        ---                ---             ---                                         --- 
Total Financing Required            6.8         0.7        7.5                2.1             0.1          9.8         12.0              10.5           19.5
1/  At the exchange rate Rs 7.80 =$ 1.00.a 
-/  Includes a fuel oil tank (4000 ton capacity) and feedlines to fertilizer plant.
For additional fuel oil stock, urea inventory and accounts receivable.
7   No interest during construction on the assumption that the entire project cost, including the IDA credit, will be provided by GOI as equity.
Industrial Projiects Department



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
Neyveli Fertilizer Project
Price Escalation Schedule
A.  Annual Inflation Rates
Average Annual Price Inflation Rates, %
Domestic Equip.      Domestic
Calendar Year            International Prices       and Services         General Prices
1.   1975                         12                      12                   15
2.   1976                         10                      10                   10
3.   1977                          8                       8                    8
4.   1978                           8                      8                    8
B.  Expenditure Commitment Schedule
Expenditure Commitment, %
FY Ending March 31                            Direct Imports             Local Purchases(Excluding Working Capital and Duties)
1.   1976                                           60                           60
2.   1977                                           40                           30
3.   1978                                          -_                            10
100                          100
C.  Price Escalation Factor Per $100 of Base Cost Estimate
Direct Imports                                  Local Purchases
FY Ending March 31        % Compounded Rate            % Escalation       % Compounded Rate         % Escalation
through Middle of FY        Factor             through Middle of FY    Factor
1.   1976                           9                       5.4                      9                    5.4
2.   1977                          20                       8.0                     20                    6.0
3.   1978                          30                       ---                     30                    3.0
Total Factor, %                 13.4                                          14.4
say                     14%                                           1=4
D. Price Deflators to Constant. 1975 US Dollars and Rupees (June 30, 1975=1.00)
Price Deflators Applicable as of:
Mid-FY 1976   Mid-FY 1977   Mid-FY 1978
1.  International Prices                     0.97           0.88           0.82
2.  Domestic (General) Prices                0.97           0.87           0.80
a/  Calculated as the weighted compounded escalation rates.  That is, 9% multiplied by the fraction (i.e., 0.6) of expenditure committed during the FY.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1975



ANNEX 5-2
Table
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
Neyveli Fertilizer Project
Disbursement Schedule and Conversion of Capital Costs to Constant Terms
(in US$ Million)
I. Disbursement and Financing Schedule
Implementation Period
Year I       Year 2       Year 3           Total
A.  Project Costs                           (FY 1976)   (FY 1977)   (FY 1978)
1.  Direct Imports                        2.1           3.7          1.0             6.8
2. Local Currency Disbursements
(a) FX Component of Local
Purchases                         0.2          0.3          0.2             0.7
(b) LC Component of Local
Purchases & Services              2.1          3.8          2.5             8.4
(c) Working Capital                   ---          ---          1.5             1.5
(d) Duties                            0.4          1.4          0.3             2.1
(e) Interest During Construc-
tion                              ---          ---
Sub-Total (a to e)          2.7          5.5          4.5             12.7
Total Disbursements                   4.8          9.2          5.5             19.5
B. Financing Sources
1.  IDA                                   2.1          3.7           1.0             6.8
2.  GOI                                   2.7          5.5           4.5            12.7
Total Sources                         4.8          9.2          5.5             19.5
II.  Conversion of Capital Costs to Constant Terms for Financial and Economic Rate of Return
Calculations
A.  Price Deflators to Constant 1975 US Dollars and Rupeesa'
1.  Foreign Exchange Costs                0.97         0.88          0.82
2.  Local Currency Costs;                 0.97          0.87         0.80
B.  Disbursements in Constant 1975 US Dollars for Rate of Return Calculation
1. Financial Rate of Return
(a) Direct Imports                    2.0          3.3          0.8             6.1
(b) Local Currency Disbursementsh! 2.6             4.8          3.6            11.0
Total                      4.6          8.1          4.4             17.1
2. Economic Rate of Return
(a) Foreign Exchange CostE/           2.2          3.5          1.0              6.7
(b) Domestic Resource Costd/          2.0          3.3          3.2             8.5
Total                      4.2          6.8          4.2             15.2
a/ Taken from Price Escalation Schedule of Table 3.
b/ Excluding interest during ccnstruction.
c/ Including FX component of lccal purchases.
d/ Excluding duties, interest during construction and FX cost of local purchases.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
Neweli Fertilizer Project
Urea Financial Production Cost Estimate for 1976/77 Onwards
(In 1975 Rupees)
Adjusted Project
Existing Operation (Lignite)-/                Proposed Proect (Fuel oil)-/               Production Costs-/
Unit Cost          Units/ton   Rs/ton          Million Rs/        Units/ton  Rs/ton       Million Rs/        Rs/ton       Million Rs/
Item                                   Unit          (Rs/Unit)           Urea         Urea           Year              Urea         Urea        Year               Urea        Year
Urea Production                                                          ------------ 60,000 TPy_______------          -----------148,500 TPY ------------         -----148,500 TPY------
I. Variable Production Costs
A.  Direct Costs
1.  Fuel Oil                  tons          603.0                ...         ---            ---                0.60        361.8        53.7               361.8        53.7
2.  Chemicals & Consumables ---              ---                 ---          210.0          12.6              ---          40.5          6.0               40.5         6.0
3.  Bags                      pieces           4.5               20.0          90.0           5.4             20.0          90.0         13.4               90.0        13.4
Sub-Total                                                          300-.0          18.0                          492.3        73.1              492.3         73.1
B.  Transerred iCsts
1.  Lignite -                 tons            55.0                5.75        316.2          19.0            ---           ---         ---                 ---         ---
2.  Process Steam_"           tons            25.0                 6.8        170.0          10.2              5.17        129.2         19.2              129.2        19.2
3. Power (izf,luding 107
duty) -                 MWH           132.0                 3.33       439.6          26.4              1.42         187.4        27.8              187.4        27.8
Sub-Total                                                           925.8          55.6                          316.6         47.0             316.6         47.0
Total Variable Production Costs                                        1,225.8           73.6                          808.9       120.1              808.9       120.1
II. Fixed Production Costs
1.  Salaries, Wages & Factory
Overhead                                                      ---          280.0           16.8           ---            113.1        16.8              ---          ---
2.  Maintenance Materials z/                                         ---          166.7          10.0            ---            64.0          9.5               64.0         9.5
3.  Insurance & Other Charges
(Net of credgFs for by-product)                                 ---          ---            ---             ---              8.8         1.3                 8.8         1.3
4.  Depreciation-                                                    ---          210.0          12.6                             85.5       127                85.5        12.7
Total Fixed Production Costs                                                  656.7          39.4                          271.4         40.3              158.3        23.5
III. Sales and Administrative Costs (Fixed)
1.  Selling & Administrative Charges                                 ---           30.0           1.8            ---            12.1          1.8               12.1         1.8
2.  Corporate Overhead Charges                                       ---          190.0          11.4            ---            76.8         11.4
Sub-Total                                                          220.0           13.2                           88.9         13.2              12.1          1.8
Total Cost of Sales Before Interest Charges
(a) 1976/77 to 1979/80                                                     2,102.5          126.2                       1,169.2        173.6              979.3       145.4
(b) 1980/81 Onwards (due to reduction in
depreciation charges for existing
units to Rs 1.4 million/year)                                        1,915.8         115.0                        1,169.2        173.6              979.3       145.4
a/  At 367. capacity utilization equivalent to 60,000 TFY of urea output.
h/  At 90% capacity utilization equivalent to 148,500 TPY of urea output.
c/  Incremental production cost which excludes salaries and corporate overhead charges which can not be avoided by the corporation even if it shuts down the fertilizer
unit completely.
d/  The lignite transfer price is calculated based on estimated total production cost including depreciation, interest and corporate overhead charges attributable or
allocated to the mines plus a fair return (10%) on equity or share capital, whichever is larger.  The estimated total production cost for 1975/76 is Rs 47/ton.
e/  The steam  transfer price is also calculated in the same manner as the lignite transfer price.  The estimated 1975/76 total steam production cost is Rs 53/ton,
but, by 1976/77, the cost is projected to decrease and a transfer price of RS 25/ton has been used.
f/  The power transfer price is also calculated in the same manner as the lignite transfer price.  It is Rs 120 per MWH and duties for self-generation of 10%
(Rs 12/MWN) have been added which raises the price to Rs 132/MEN.
j/  Rs 6.5 million/year for existing facilities that will be  ernirm&  in the project.  The new facilities will add another Rs 3.0 million per year calculated as
approximately 50% of the cost of spares (plus 7% for contingency) in the capital cost estimate, .
h/  rhe depreciation on existing facilities (lignite based operation) is reduced to Rs 1.4 million annually from 1980/81 onwards.  For the proposed project, the existing                      uV
facilities that will be retained will contribute Rs 1.5 million annually to depreciation from 1980/81 onwards.  Depreciation for the project will be R, 25.3 million/
year during 1978/79-1979/80.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
Neyveli Fertilizer Project
Economic Production Costs
(in 1975 Rupees or US Dollars)
Existing Operation-b                   Proposed Projectc/
Rs/ton of      Rs Million            Rs/ton of      Rs Million
Items                                                                             Urea           per Year              Urea            per Year
I. Foreign Exchange Costs (FX)
A. Variable Costs
1.  Lignite (20% FX)                                                          63.2            3.8 
2.  Fuel Oil, CIF US$ 55 or Rs 430/ton                                       ---             ---                 258.0            38.3
3.  Chemicals and Consumables (60% FX)                                       126.0             7.6                24.3             3.6
4.  Power (20% of cost before duty; e.g., Rs 24/MWH)                          79.9             4.8                34.1             5.1
5.  Process Steam (10% FX)                                                    17.0             1.0                12.9             1.9
6.  Bags (25% FX)                                                             22.5             1.4                22.5             3.4
Sub-Total                                                  308.6           18.6                351.8           52.3
B. Fixed Costs
1.Maint-E-arE Mateitial  (40o raj                                         66.7            4.U                 25.6            3.8
Total Foreign Exchange Costs                                                 375.3           22.6                377.4           56.1
II. Domestic Resource Costs (DRC)
A. Variable Costs
I.  Lignite (80% DRC)                                                        253.0           15.2                ---            ---
2.  Local Handling of Fuel Oil, Rs 45/ton                                    ---            ---                   27.0             4.0
3.  Chemicals and Consumables (30% DRC)                                       63.0            3.8                 12.2             1.8
4.  Power (80% of cost before duty; e.g., Rs 96/MWH)                         319.7            19.2               136.3            20.2
5.  Process Steam (90% DRC)                                                  153.0             9.2               116.3            17.3
6.  Bags (60% DRC)                                                            54.0            3.2                 54.0             8.0
Sub-Total                                                  842.7           50.6                345.8           51.3
B. Fixed Costs
1.  Maintenance Materials (40% DRC)                                           66.7            4.0                 25.6             3.8
2.  Insurance, Selling & Administrative Expenses (100% DRC)                   30.0             1.8                20.9             3.1
3.  Salaries, Wages and Overhead (100% DRC)                                  470.0           28.2                189.9           28.2
Sub-Total                                                  566.7           34.0                236.4           35.1
Total Domestic Resource Costs                                             'L409*4            84.6                582.2            86.4
1,784.7          107.2                959.6          142.5
III.  Total Economic Production Costs                                                 1,7.125                                              14
a/  Based on financial costs except for fuel oil.
b/  At 36% capacity utilization or 60,000 TPY urea.
c/  At 90% capacity utilization or 148,500 TPY urea.



ANNEX 5-2
Table 7
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUJSTRY CREDIT
Neyveli Fertilizer Project
Additional Cash Generation from Operationsa'
For Corporation as a Whole
(in Millions of 1975 Rupees)
From Proposed                  From Additional            Total Cash
Fiscal Year        Fertilizer Proiectb/           Power Generations/         Generation
4 (1979/80)               (12.7)                          9.1                   (3.6)
5                            4,,2-                        9.1                   13.3
6 - 14                      9.9                           9.1                   19.0
15                         24l2                           9.1                   33.0
a/  Cash generation from operations before debt service payments and income taxes.
b/  Taken from  Table 8.  Defined as the net financiar benefit of the proposed
project.
c5  Based on 345,000 TPY of 1.gnite, a power output of 0.7143 MWH per ton of lignite
(or 246,400 MWH per year), a sales price of Rs 120/MWH (before tax) and a variable
power generation cost (including lignite at Rs 55/ton or Rs 77/MWH) of Rs 83/MWH
(based on 1975/76 costs).
Industrial Projects Department
June 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
Neyveli Fertilizer Project
Cost/Benefit Streams for Financial Rate of Return
(in Millions of 1975 Rupees)
Proposed Project (Fuel Oil)                                                              Existing Operation (Lignite)                                       Incremental
Fiscal          Capital      Urea Output        Produc ion       Sales Value        Net Benefit          Capital       Urea Output        Production       Sales Value        Net Benefit           Net Benefit
Year            Costs-        (1000 Tons)b/   Costsc/            of outputd/        Stream                Costs         (1000 Tons)       Costsc/          of outputd/        Stream                 Stream6.
1 (1975/76)       35.9            50              101.3               75.0             (62.2)             ---               50.0            101.3               75.0              (26.3)               (35.9)
2                 63.2            60              113.6               81.0             (95.8)              ---              60.0            113.6               81.0              (32.6)               (63.2)
3                 34.3            30               73.6               37.0             (70.9)              ---              60.0            113.6               74.7              (38.9)               (32.0)
4 (1978/79)    ___                82.5            107.5               94.8             (12.7)              ---              60.0            113.6               69.0              (44.6)                31.9
5                ---             132.0            147.6              151.8               4.2               ---              60.0            113.6               69.0              (44.6)                48.8
6                ---             148.5            160.9              170.8               9.9               ---              60.0            113.6               69.0              (44.6)                54.5
7                ---             148.5            160.9              170.8               9.9               ---              60.0            113.6               69.0              (44.6)                54.5
8                ---             148.5            160.9              170.8               9.9               ---              60.0            113.6               69.0              (44.6)                54.5
9                ---             148.5            160.9              170,8               9.9               ---              60.0            113.6               69.0              (44.6)                54.5
10                ---             148.5            160.9              170.8               9.9               ---              60.0            113.6               69.0              (44.6)                54.5
11                ---             148.5            160.9              170.8               9.9               ---              60.0            113.6               69.0              (44.6)                54.5
12                ---             148.5            160.9              170.8               9.9               ---              60.0            113.6               69.0              (44.6)                54.5
13                ---             148.5            160.9              170.8               9.9               ---              60.0            113.6               69.0              (44.6)                54.5
14                ---             148.5            160.9              170.8               9.9                                60.0            113.6               69.0              (44.6)                54.5
15                (14.3)f/        148.5            160.9              170.8              24.2               (11.0)&/         60.0            113.6               69.0              (33.6)                57.8
Financial Rate of Return                     27%
a/  Capital Costs are taken from Table 4 and converted using the exchange rate Rs 7.80 = US$ 1.00.
b/  Production during years 1 to 3 are based on lignite, starting on year 4, production is based on fuel oil.
c/  Production costs are taken from Table 5 but excludes depreciation charges.
d/  Based on an ex-factory price of Rs 1500 per ton of urea in current terms from 1975/76 through 1978/79 and a price of Rs 1150/ton in constant 1975 rupees thereafter.                                                   p:
e/  Net benefit stream of proposed project less the net benefit stream of the existing operations.
f/  Recovered non-depreciable assets                  converted to 1975 rupees by a factor of 0.8
&/  Recovered working capital (estimated at Rs 11 million in 1975 rupees) of existing operations.                                                                                                                           0 
Industrial Projects Department
June 1975



INDIA - FMRTILIZft UIIJS1ItY CREDIT
Nevveli Fertilizer Pto1ect
Cost/Btnefit Streams for Economic Rate of Return
(In Millions of 1975 Rupees)
Proposed Project (Puel oil)                         _Existing Operation (Lignite)                                                                        Incremental
Fiscal        Capital      Urea Output      Production      Economic l,1ue      Net Benefit           Capital      Urea Output      Producton       Economic Vj1ue      Net Benefit            Net Benefit
Year           Costs a/     1000 1bna)    Cost4'            of OutSutr m                              Costs        (1000 Tons)      Costs    n      of Output a          Stream                       ei
1 (1975/76)      32.8           50.0            95.6            130.8                2.4               ---             50.0            95.6             130.8                35.2                  (32.8)
2                53.0           60.0           107.2            138.0              (22.2)              ---             60.0           107.2             138.0                30.8                  (53.0)
3                32.8           30.0            70.5             58.5              (44.8)              ---             60.0           107.2             117.0                 9.8                 (54.6)
4               ---             82.5            96.4            125.4               29.0               ---             60.0           107.2              91.2               (16.0)                 45.0
5                ---            132.0          131.0            200.6               69.6                               60.0           107.2              91.2               (16.0)                 85.6
6                              148.5           142.5            225.7               83.2               ---             60.0           107.2              91.2              (16.0)                  99.2
7                              148.5           142.5            225.7               83.2               ---             600           107.1              91.2               (16.0)                 99.2
8               ---            148.5           142.5            225.7               83.Z               ---             60.0           107.2              91.2               (16.0)                 99.2
9                ---           148.5           142.5            225.7               83.2               ---             60.0           107.2              91.2               (16.0)                 99.2
10                ---           148.5           142.5            225.7               83.2               ---             60.0           107.2              91.2               (16.0)                 99.2
11                              148.5           142.5            225.7               83.2               ---             60.0           107.2              91.2               (16.0)                 99.2
12                              148.5           142.5            225.7               83.2               ---             60.0           107.2              91.2               (16.0)                 99.2
13              -_-             148.5           142.5            225.7               83.2               ---             60.0           107.2              91.2               (16.0)                 99.2
14               ---            148.5           142.5            225.7               83.2               ---             60 0           107.2              91.2              (16.0)                  99.2
15               (13 .9)P       148.5           142.5            225.7               97.1               (11.0)&/        60.0           107.2              91.2                (5.0)                102.1
Economic Rate of Return                     41b
a/  Capital Costs are taken from    Table 4,  using Re 7.80 - US$ 1.00 as the exchange rate.
b/  Production during years 1 to 3 are based on lignite; years 4 and onwards are based on fuel oil.
c/ Economic production costs are taken from Table 6.
d/ The economic prices of urea are derived as follows (in constant 1975 US Dollars):
1975/76     1976/77      1977/78      1978/79 & Onwards
FOB US$/ton, bagged                  300          260          215              160
Ocean freight, $/ton                  25           25           25               25
Local handling, $/ton                  10          10           10               10
US$/ton of Urea                335          295          250              195
Rs/ton of Urea               2,615        2,300       1,950            1,520
e/  Difference between proposed project net benefit stream and the existing operation net benefit stream.
f/  Non-depreciable assets                 excludiag duties for spares, deflated in constant 1975 terms by the factor 0.8,
a! Recovered working capital, identical to amount in financial analysis.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
NEYVELI - HISTORICAL AND FORECASTED INCOME STATEMENT WITH THE PROPOSED PROJECT
(in Millions of Current Rupees)
Actual         Estimate                               Forecast
Fiscal Year                      1972/73    1973/Th    1974J719    7975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79     1979/80        1980/81
Production Data
a)  Lignite (million tons)                  2.9        3.3        3.3        3.3         3.8        4.2        4.5           5.5           6.5
b)  Power (million MWH)                     1.73       2.02       2.15       2.45        2.76       2.91       3.26         3.31           3.25
c) Urea (thousand tons)                    45.8       31.5       45.0       50.0        60.0       30.0       82.5        132.0          148.5
d)  "Leco" (thousand tons)                 17.4       24.5       25.0       39.5        41.1      105.3       93.8        235.2          282.9
e)  Process Steam (million tons)            NA         NA         NA         o.54        0.61       0.74       0.91         1.86           2.20
Outside Sales (Rs Million)
a) Power                                  140.8      184.9      293.9      368.8       453.9      528.9      631.2        656.7          789.4
b) Urea                                    38.3       26.3       51.5       75.0        90.7       45.1      125.2         217.1         261.3
c)  "Leco"                                  8.1       11.1       16.2       25.9        30.2       84.1       81.1        220.3          283.5
Sub-Total                        187.2      222.3      361.6       469. 7                658.1      837.5       1,094.1       1,334.2
Internal Transfers (Rs Million)
a)  Lignite                             - excluded from costs below -      181.5       234.1      281.8      326.7         432.6         547.0
b)  Power                               - excluded from costs below -       44.4        55.1       51.2       58.6          96.1         115.7
c) Process Steam                        - excluded from costs below -       13.5        17.1       22.6        0.0          66.5          84.1
Sub-Total                                                          239.4      306.3      355.6      4.95.2
Cost of Production
a) Lignite                              - included in costs below -        118.4       137.8      154.5      170.8         198.2         226.1
b)  Power                                  95.6      110.8      202.8       343.2      413.2      488.2      56(,          ('9.7         725.1
c) Urea                                    65.0       62.5       88.2      101.3       127.2       89.8      141.9         211.1         246.2
d)  "Leco"                                 20.4       21.8       32.2       36.8        42.1       83.2       82.8         130.2         233.9
e)  Process Steam & Others                (10.1)       1.0        0.6       146         18.0       22.9       29.6          60.6          75.
Sub-Total                        170.9      196.1      323. 8 614          3             838.6      991.6       1,219.8       1,507.3
Depreciation Charges
a) Urea                                    21.8       21.8       20.3        14.0       12.6       12.6       23.8          23.8          12.7
b) Others                                  42.4       65.9       69.8        696        59.5       63.0       69.3         103.2         139.0        31>
Sub-Total                          b287.7               90.1        837.       72.1       75.3.1                  127.0         151.7
Interest Expense                             51.6       60.1       64.7        74.5       79.2       77.8       70.0          78.0          53.0
Profit (Loss) Before Income Taxes           (99.5)    (121.6)    (117.0)      (63.3)      (8.5)      21.7       98.1         264.5         369.0
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
NEYVELI - RISTORICAL AND FORECASTED CASHFLOW AND  ALIANCE SHEET WITH THE PROPOSED PROJECT
(in Millions of Current Rupees)
Actual                 Estimate                                              Forecast
1972/73   ~1973/74    ~ 1974/75            129677                          17/8             987717/6                       908
I.   Cashflow Statement
Sources of Funds
Profit (Loss) before Taxes                    (99.5)         (121.6)         (117.0)          (63.3)          (8.5)           21.7             98.1          264.5         369.0
Depreciation                                   64.2            87.7            90.1           83.6            72.1            75.6             93.1           127.0        151.7
Interest                                       51.6            60.1            64.7           74.5            79.2            77.8             70.0           78.0          53.0
Cashflow froym Operations                  16.3           26.2            37.8            94.8           142.8           175.1           261.2           469.5         573.7
Increase in Long-Term Debtr/                     -             31.8          260.6           313.7           264.8           156.2           100.0             29.2            -
Increase in Current Liabilities (net)k/       '18.9)           32.3           (3.3)          (44.7)           (2.2)             -            (12.7)           (13.0)       (310.7)
Increase in Equity/                           209.7              -            75.5           423.0           232.6           142.9               -
Total Sources                             207.1           90.3           370.6           786.8           638.0           474.2           348.5           485.7         263.0
Uses of Funds
Interest (long-term  debt)                     51.6            60.1            64.7           74.5            79.2            77.8             70.0            78.0         53.0
Principal Repaytast (long-term  debt)         144.4              -           218.2           281.0           334.4            87.3           170.0           368.5         200.0
Debt Service Payments                     196.0           60.1           282.9           355.5           413.6           165.1           240.0           465           253.0
Capital Additions                              11.1            30.2            87.7          431.3           224.4           309.1            108.5            39.2         10.0
Total Uses                                207.1           90.3           370.6           786.8           638.0              .348.5                       485.7         263.0
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                       0.1             0.4             0.1            0.3             0.3             1.1              1.1             1.1          2.3
II. Balance Sheet as of March 31
Current Assets                                  253.4           284.5           338.1          374.3           374.3           374.3            393.0           413.0        730.7
Gross Fixed Assets                            1,846.4        1,876.6         1,964.3         2,395.6         2,620.0         2,929.1         3,037.6          3,076.8      3,086.8
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                638.2          726.6           816.7           900.3           972.4         1.048.0        1141.1          1,268.1       1.419.8
Net Fixed Assets                              1,208.2         1,150.0         1,147.6        1,495.3         1,647.6         1,881.1          1,896.5         1,808.7      1,667.0
Deferred Revenue Expense & Other Assets          17.1            17.8            17.8           17.8            17.8            17.8             17.8            17.8          17.8
Total Assets                            1,478.7        1,452.3         1,503.5         1,887.4         2,039.7         2,273.2         2,307.3         2,239.5       2,415.5
Current Liabilities                              27.0            90.4           140.7          132.2           130.0           130.0            136.0           143.0        150.0
Debt                                          1,000.0         1,031.8         1,074.2        1,106.9         1,037.3         1,106.2          1,036.2           696.9        496.9
Equity:  Share Capital                        1,009.7         1,009.7         1,085.2        1,508.2         1,740.8         2,207.9          1,883.7        1,883.7       1,883.7
Retained Earnings (loss)              (558.0)        (679.6)         (796.6          (859.9)         (868.4)         (846.7)         (748.6)         (484.1)       (115.1)
Equity (net)                          451.7           330.1           288.6           648.3           873.4         1,037.0         1,135.1         1,399.6       1,768.6
Total Liabilities                       1,478.7        1,452.3         1,503.5         1,887.4         2,039.7         2,273.2         2,307.3         2,239.5       2,415.5
Current Ratio                                     9.4             3.1             2.4             2.8            2.9             2.9              2.9             2.9          4.8
Debt Equity Ratio                               69:31           76:24           79:21          63:37           54:46           52:48           48:52            33:67        22:78
al  The budgeted (Plan) increase in long-term  debt are as follows (in Rs millions):
1974/75  -   0.0           1977/78  -  256.2
1975/76  -   0.0           1978/79  -   98.5
1976/77  -  85.9           1979/80  -   29.2
The difference between the budgeted amounts and the amounts shown in the cashflow statement have been added to keep the increase 
in current liabilities, which is calculated as the residual, from exceeding 35% of current assets.
b/  Calculated as a residual but limited by the condition that the current ratio should not be less than 2.8.
c/ Assumes the proposed project will be financed with equity and that additional equity is added to achieve a debt equity ratio of about 50:50 by 1978/79.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANNEX 5-3
Page 1
INDIA - RTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
ROURKELA - PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND ANALYSIS
A. Capital Cost Estimate
The project will add a naphtha reforming unit which will produce
synthesis gas equivalent to 180 TPD of ammonia. The unit will be identical
to an existing naphtha reforming unit installed in 1971. The project cost is
as follows:
Capital Cost Estimate
Rourkela Feedstock Conversion Project
In Rs Million       In US $ Million
Foreigi  Ilocal Total Ir     4cal .Total
Fxchoat ,/ Curr.      ExJchu Curr.
Equipment & Spares (delivered) b 49.0  52.1  101.1  6.3   6.7    13.0
Duties & Taxes                      -   19.1   19.1   -    2.4      2.b
Design and Engineering             4.O  13.5   17.5  0.5   1.7      2.2
Civil Works, Erection
& Commissioning  /              0.8  17.6   18.4  0.1   2.3      2.4
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)          53.8 102.3  156.1  6.9  13.1    20.0
Physical Contingencies (10%)       5.h  10.2   15.6  0.7   1.3      2.0
Price Escalation (18%)            10.7  20.3   31.0  1.4   2.6      4.0
Installed Cost                    69.9 132.8  202.7  9.0  17.0   26.0
Additional Working Capitald>       -     1.1    1.1  -     0.1      0.1
Interest During Construction       -     -       -   -      -        -
69.9 133.9  203.8  9.0  17.1    26.1
a/  Foreign exchange cost inclucles US$2.0 (Rs 16)  million of indirect
foreign exchange.
hi Foreign Exchange cost is CIF; local costs include delivery to site.
c/ Includes preoperating expenses.
d/ For additional naphtha inventory.



ANNEX 5-3
B. Plant Capacity and Project Benefit
The Rourkela fertilizer plant produces CAN (25% N) with ammonium
nitrate liquor (80% N) as by-product. The CAN capacity is 460,000 TPY
(based on 330 stream days/year) equivalent to 115,000 TPY19f N and the by-
product liquor capacity is equivalent.to 10,000 TPY of N.-` The intermediate
ammonia unit has a capacity of h63 TPD ammonia, equivalent to 125,000 TPY of N.
Synthesis gas for the ammonia plant is presently supplied by:
a) A naphtha reformer with a capacity equivalent to 180 TPD ammonia
(48,700 TPY N).                                       3
b) Coke oven gas from the steel plant. About 48,500 NM3/hr of coke
oven gas is required at full production (equivalent to 281 TPD
am onia) but during the last four years, only 11,000 to 16,000
NMH/hr has been available (equivalent to 64 to 93 TPD ammonia).
A de*ettlenecking pro ran in underway to raise the supply of coke
oven gas to 20,000 NM5/hr, which would be equivalent to 116 TPD
of ammonia.
The proposed project will add another naphtha reformer with a capacity
equivalent to 180 TPD of ammonia. This will raise the synthesis gas supply to
the equivalent of 476 TPD ammonia and will be more than adequate for the ammonia
plant which has a capacity of 463 TPD of ammonia.
The capacities and production with and without the propose project
are as follows. The project is estimated to take 36 months to implement and
should start production by the end of 1978.
Ammonia Synthesis Gas SUpDDY CaDacitY
(in TPD of ammonia equivalent)
Synthesis Gas    Present         Facilities               Incremental
Source           Facilities    With Pro ect           SUDD1V from Pro'et
TP      %      TPD       i-          TPD      
a.  Coke Oven Gas    116 /  25       116       25           -            -
b.  Naptha Reformer  180    39       360       78          180
Total          296    64       476     103           180           39
c. Synthesis Gas
Required by
Ammonia Plant    463   100       463      100
a/  Based on the availability of 20,000 NM3/hr of coke oven gas.
g/ About 92% of the ammonia is converted to CAN and 8% is recovered as
ammonium nltrate liquor.



ANNEx 5-3-
Page 3
CAN Capacity and Output at 9C2 Utilization of Synthesis Gas Supply Units
(in TPY of CAN)
Synthesis              Present               Facilities         Incremental
Gas Source          FacilitiEes            With ProJect      Output from ProJect
PTpJ              TPI'
TTY_       %           T         %TP  
a.  Coke Oven Gas!J'  10h,000    23         104,000   23          -
b.  Naphtha Reformer 161,300    35          322,600   70        161,300          35
Total         265,300    58          426,600   93        161,300          35
c.  CAN capacity     460,000   100          460,000  100          -              -
d. Ammonium Nitrate
By-Product Output  7,200    58           11,600   93          4,h00          35
e. By-Product
Capacity        12,500   100           12,500  100
a/ Based on the availability of 20,000 NM3/hr of coke oven gas.
The proposed project would allow as much as 78% of the synthesis
gas requirements to be provided by the two naphtha reforming units but the
production forecast assumes that 75% of the ammonia will come from the naphtha
reforming units.
Even if the supply of coke oven gas is maintained at the present
level of about 15,000 NM- /hr (equivalent to 87 TPD anmonia), production will
still be about 400,600 TPY of CAN, about 87% of the CAN capacity, provided
both naptha reforming units operate at 90% capacity. At any rate, the project
will increase CAN output by 161,300 TPY, representing 35% of the plant's
capacity.   The plant coull then be able to produce at 93% of the CAN
capacity, compared to the 58% that can be achieved after the debottlenecking
of the coke oven gas supply unit. Thie actual production during the last four
years has ranged from 40 to 53% of the CAN capacity.
C. Raw Material Requirements for Incremental Output
1.  Naphtha  -   1.0 tons naphtha feedstock per ton of N (0.82 tons naphtha
per ton of ammonia), or about 40,325 TPY of naphtha for the
incremental output of 61,300 TPY of CAN.
2.  Limestone -  0.3 tons of limestone per ton of CAN, or about  48,39C TPY
of limestone.
Industrial Projects Department
October 1975.



ANNEX 5-3
Table 1
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
ROURIELA - HISTORICAL PRODUCTION DATA 1/
Average Coke        Average supply           Yearly C.A.N.    % capacity
Oven gas            of Coke Oven                production    utilization
Year        production          gas to Fertilizer                          of the Fertilizer
(Steel Plant)       Plant                                       Plant
(Nm3/hr)             (Nm3 /hr)                  (Tons)        (% of N Capacity)Z/
1962-63          38,800               5,1,90                39,965 (20.5%N)         7.1
1963-6b          L7,070              15,840                119,837     it          21.4
196h-65          p.2,530             23,750               181,129      "           32.3
1965-66          L7,IOO               21,0h0               158,780     "           29.4
1966-67          L9,590              25,000               188,236      "           13.6
1967-68          50,650              23,330               189,503                  33.7
1968-69          53,180              29,1!80               235,911     "           42.1
1969-70          56,110              20,180                1l6,061 (20.5%N)41      26.1
1970-71-         54,900              13,100                 94,215 (25%N)          20.5
1971-72          1,8,560             11,000                195,L08                 4 0°.3
1972-73          53,610              11,150                196,390    "            42.7
1973-7           08,600              12,280               181!,324                4t0.1
197h-75                              15,900                21h5,107    "           53.3
1/ Naphtha Reformer Plant of 180 TPD ammonia capacity was commissioned in February t71.
The production of C.A.N. from Naphtha reformed gas is included from February '71 onwards.
j Capacity is h60,OOO TPY of CAN (25%N) or 115,000 TPY of N.
/ Includes L5,982 tons of 25% N product
1/ Includes 117,30hl tons of 25% N product
Industrial Projects Department
August 19, 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT                 TAble 53
ROURKELA - Production Cost Estimate
(In constant 1975 rupees)
I.  Incremental Production Cost for 161 300 TPY CAN Output
A.  Variable Costs-
Units/ton CAN                 Rs/Ton  CAN
Financial Cost       Economic Ct,t
Item                                                           FX      LC
1.  Naphtha              0.25 tons                211.2          17770     11.2
2.  Limestone            0.30  "                   12.6            -       11.3
3.  Bags & Utilities       -                      112.5            -      102.3
Total Variable  336.3          175.0    12L.8
B.  Incremental Fixed Costs
Rs Million/year
Financial Cost        Economic Cost
FX      LC
1.  Salaries and Overhead                          10.0             -      10.0
?.  Maintenance Expenses(2% of Installed Cost)    l.0              1.6      1.6
3.  Depreciation Charges(1/12 of Installed Cost) 16.9               -       -
)1. Other Fixed Costs                                1.5           _        1.5
Total Incremental Fixed Costs   32.4             1.6     13.1
C.  Average Production Costs Including Depreciation (at 161,300 TPY CAN output)
Financial              Economic
FX      LC
1.  Rs/ton of CAN                        537.2                187.9   206.0
2.  Rs million/year                       86.6                 29.8    33.2
II. Value of Incremental Output=
1.  Rs Million/year from CAN                 105.8                132.7    12.6
2.  Rs Million/year from By-Product
AN Liquor (h,h00 TPY)                   L.8                  -       6.8
Total Rs Million/year        110.6                132.7    17.b
a/ Price Assumptions are:
Item                                       Financial              Economic
FX      LC
1.  Naphtha,Rs/ton(delivered)                    8h5-              700      L5
2.  Limestone,Rs/ton(delivered)                   L2                 -      38
3.  CAN, Rs/ton (ex-factory)                     656               823      78
4. By-Product Ammonium Nitrate Liquor          1,100                 -   1,100
Rs/ton (ex-factory)
Note: The financial price of CAN (25%N) has been derived from the urea (L6%N)
ex-factory price of Rs 1150/ton. It is assumed that on a nutrient basis
(Rs/ton of N), the N in CAN will be priced higher by 5% than the N in urea
(for both financial and economic prices). The small premium for the N in
CAN is to account for the limestone contained in CAN which also has
agronomic value. The economic price has been derived from a CIF price
of US$ 185/ton for urea. The local currency c,ost is the economic price
for local handling.
InAustri-al Projects Department
August 1975



ANNEX 5-3
Table 3
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
ROURKELA - Cost and Benefit Streams for
Rate of Return Calculations
(in constant 1975 rupees)
Year          Financial Cost and Benefit Streams           Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
Capita;   Operating  Value of   Net         Capital   Operating  Value of   Net
Co tsa    Costsha      Outnut   Benefit    Costs A/    Costs       Output  Benefit
1 (1975)          10.0        _           _        (10.0)      10.0         _          -      (10.0)
2                 1.0.5       -           -       (LO.5)       W-5                     -     (4o.5)
3                76.8         -           -       (76.8)       60.9        -           -     (60.9)
L (1978)2         112.8      7.6         10.2     (hO.2)       h2.8       6.9        13.9    (35.8)
5                   -       45.6         61. h     15.8          -        1.6        83.1     bl.8
6                   -       60.7         92.2      31.5          -       55.0       125.0     70.0
7                   -       69.7        110.6      hO.9          -       63.0       150.1     87.1
8                   -       69.7        110.6      40.9          -       63.0       150.1     87.1
9                   -       69.7        110.6      '0.9          -       63.0       150.1     87.1
10                   -       69.7        110.6      40.9          -       63.0       150.1     87.1
11                   -       69.7        110.6      40.9          -       63.0       150.1     87.1
12                   -       69.7        110.6      LO.9          -       63.0       150.1     87.1
13                   _       69.7        110.6      LO.9          _       63.0       150.1     87.1
lb                   _       69.7        110.6      40.9          -       63.0       150.1     87.1
15                           69.7        110.6      10.9          -       63.0       150.1     87.1
16                 (0.8)A/   69.7        110.6      10.9        (.8)/   63.0         150.1     87.2
Financial Rate of Return before Taxes    15  %           Economic Rate of Return    33  %
a/  Based on a disbursement schedule (in millions of current rupees) of Rs 10 in 1975,
Rs 15 in 1976, Rs 92.5 (including Rs 19.1 for duties) in 1977 and Rs 56.3 in 1978.
Duties have been excluded from the economic costs and the capital costs have been
deflated to constant 1975 rupees.
b/  Excludes depreciation.
c/  Production starts November 1978 at 50$ incremental capacity utilization through 1979,
75% in 1980 and 90% thereafter.
d/ Recovered working capital of Rs 1.1 million disbursed in 1978 and deflated to constant
1975 rupees.
Industrial Projects Department
August 19, 1975



ANNEX 5-4
INDIA   FERTILIZER INDTSTRY CREDIT
MknfAS FNtTILIZERS LDIITED - PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND ANALYSIS
A.   Introduction
1.        Madras Fertilizers Limited was incorporated on December 8, 1966 and
a turnkey contract for the design, engineering and construction of the works
and buildings at Manali 25 km north of Madras (State of Tamil Nadu) waa awarded
to Chemical Construction Corporation (USA) on. July 20, 1967. The plant was
accepted from the contractor on Jwue 7, 1971 and went into commercial production
the following November. The works has a rated production capacity of 750 TPD
a"nonia, 885 TPD urea, and 1,100 TPD NPK with about 665 TPD urea and 1,100 TPD
NPK in two grades (14-28-14 and 17-17-17) available for distribution.
2.        The company is a joint sector undertaking with 51% Government of India
(GOI) ownership and the remaining 49% being equally split between Amoco India
Incorporated, a subsidiary of Amocc. International Oil Company, and National
Iranian Oil Company of Iran respectively. The foreign exchange requirements
of the project which cost a total cf around Rs 650 million were met by equity
f;^'m Amoco India Inc. and through a loan from the Chemical Bank and Trust Company,
New York, arranged by Amoco International. Authorized share capital of the
company is Rs 140 million of which Rs 136.5 million is paid up.  The company's
b.alance sheet as of March 31, 1973 showed total assets of Rs 689.4 million and a
debt to equity ratio of 80:20. For the year ending March 31, 1973 it showed a
profit of Rs 550,479 on sales of Rs 351.8 million but a net losa of Rs 14, 546 after
adjistments from previous years' operations.  A total of Rs 97.8 million was
provided during the year for depreciation and interest.
3.        The ammonia production unit is of Chemico design using Catalyst and
Chemicals Incorporated (USA) catalysts and ia based on a naphtha steam reformer
designed by Topsoe and using Topsoe's reforming catalyst. Naphtha is supplied
from Madras Refineries Ltd. about 3 km away by pipeline.. Madras Refineries Ltd.
is owned by the same group of shareholders as MFL with the Government holding
a 74% majority.
B.   Operating Experience
4.        When the ammonia unit was first started it was found to be capable of
producing at the rate of only 535 'TD instead of to its design capacity of 750
TFD* But instead of closing the planrt down for one month to effect modifications
as desired by the contractor, MFL agreed with Chemico on a penalty settlement
of around US$o.5 million. The plant was then gradually increased to near its
full capacity by the company itself., The main tasks undertaken were:
a) repacking of ammonia synthesis converter to prevent recycling of gas;
b) addition of one cell to the cooling water tower;
c) modifications to the C02 removal iplant;
d) cleaning of heat exchangers which were fouled at the time of erection.
!



ANNEX 5-4
Page 2
5.        Of the annual rated capacity of about 750 TPD ammonia, 530 TPD goes
toward the manufacture of urea, and 100 TPD toward NPK leaving a surplus of
about 120 TPD which was originally intended for the future production of
ammonium chloride and soda ash. However, the company has decided not to pro-
ceed with that scheme and instead is now installing a third NPK train to absorb
part (50 TPD ammonia) of the surplus.
6.        The plant manufactures NPK in two trains at present with a total
capacity of about 1,100 TPD but is adding a third train to absorb part of the
surplus ammonia capacity. The NPK plant was designed and supplied by Dorr
Oliver as subcontractor to Chemico. Civil works for the third train are
almost complete but as of January 1975 only the drier had so far been erected.
Major contractor for the project is Dorr-Oliver India. The effective date of
the contract was May 1, 1974 and scheduled completion time is 25 months.  The
project will give an additional output of 600 TPD NPK and will consume 50 TPD
ammonia, 165 TPD urea, 171 TPD potash, and 106 TPD 52% phosphoric acid. Total
cost including spare parts and working capital is expected to be 14.5 million
including about $1.4 million in foreign exchange.  The NPK trains produce an
ammonium phosphate which is almost equivalent to DAP having an ammonia to
phosphate ratio of about 1.8 to which potash, sand (used as filler) and urea
are blended to give the two end products 17-17-17 and 14-28-14. Requirements
of potash and 52% phosphoric acid are imported and stored at the works in a
2,000 ton potash storage building and three phosphoric acid storage tanks of
9,000 ton total capacity (1 x 6,000 and 2 x 1,500). An additional 30,000 tons
acid storage is provided at the port but the maximum inventory there during
1973 only reached 12,000 tons.  The largest acid ships coming to Madras are of
14,500 tons capacity. Twenty six days' storage is provided in a double-sided
storage building for the two grades of NPK in bulk and bags.
7.        When operated at the present capacity, the plant consumes the
following raw materials and utilities:
naphtha                            260,000 TPY
fuel (LPG and furnace oil)          70,000  "
52% phosphoric acid               158,000  it
potash                            110,000  "
filler and coating agents           48,ooo  "
water                              5 million imperial gallons/day
power                              10-12 MW
8.        Water is supplied by the Government of Tamil Nadu from deep wells
about 15 miles from the works. Huge quantities of water are reported to be
supplied to the Industrial Belt of Tamil Nadu from this source and the works
has ekperienced no shortages to date.
9.        Beyond a 500 KW emergency power generating set, the works is totally
dependent on the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB) for its electric power
requirements. The generating authority, however, is reported to have an over-
all shortage of capacity and to have cut power to all consumers over the past
year.



ANNEX 5-4
Page 3
c- Urea Debottlenecking ProcJpt
l(.          The urea dehottlenecking project will utilize the surplus 70 TPD
ammonia capacity that will still be available after the third NPK train is
operating. The project will cost Rs 9.4 (US$1.2) million including Rs 5.5
(US$0.7) million in foreign exchange. The urea capacity will be raised
from 885 TPD to 1000 TPD, or about 330,000 TPY based on 330 stream days.
The debottlenecking will involve raising the Annex 5-4 capacities of the
C02 compressors, decomposer, carhonate pump and ammonia condenser. Output
at 905 capacity utilization will increase by 33,000 TPY from 264,000 TPY to
297,000 TPY after the debottlenecking program.
D. Ammonia Process Control Project
17.          The ammonia comnputerized process control system being proposed
will cost Rs 3.6 (US$0.5) million including Rs 1.8 (US$0.2) million in
foreign exchange. The project is expected to reduce naphtha consumption
by 2.55 by computerized control of the hydrogen-nitrogen ratio in the make-up
synthesis (15`0o) and the synithesis loop (1'o). The present naphtha consumption
is 1.05 tons of naphtha per ton of ammonia (or 0.63 tons naphtha per ton of
urea). Based on the existing urea capacity (885 TPD urea) and the expanded
NPK' facilities (requiring 150 TPD ammonia), the annual naphtha savings at
905 output is about  5,300 TPY of naphtha.  When the urea capacity is
increased to 1000 TPD and the entire 750 TPD ammonia capacity is utilized
at 90' of capacity, the napihtha savings is ahout 5,800 TPY. At the 1975
price of Rs (00 per ton of naphtha, these quantities would represent an
annual savings of Rs 3.13 and Rs 3.h8 million respectively. The process
control computer is expectecd to be installed by mid-1977.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
MAMRAS FERTILIZER LIXITED - CAPITAL COST ESTIMTES
A. Capital Cost Estimate - Urea Plant Debottlenecking
In Rs Millions                            In Millions of US Dollars
Foreign        Local                       Foreign         local
Exchange       Currency        Total        Exchange        Currency         Total
Equipment & Spares (delivered)  3.1             1.0            4.1            0.40          0.13            0.53
Duties                                          1.2            1.2             -            0.15            0.15
Licenses & Engineering           0.4             -             0.4           0.05            -              0.05
Erection & Comuissioning          0.4           0.8            1.2           0.05           0.10            0.
Base Cost Estimate (RCE)         3.9            3.0             ..50                        0.38 0.88
Physical Contingencies (15%)    o.8             0.3            1.1            0.10          0.04            0.14
Price Escalation (18%)           0.8            0.6            1.4           0.10           0.08            0.18
Total                         5.5            3.9                          0.70           0.50            1.20
B. Capital Cost Estimate - Ammonia Process Control Project
In Rs Million                      -   LMiLA  of Us  Ifa
Foreign        Local                       Foreign          local
Exchanuo       Currency        Total       Exchange         Currencr         Total
Equipment (delivered)            1.0            o.8            1.8            0.13           0.10           0.23
Duties                             -            0.3            0.3             -            0.04            0.04
Licenses & Engineering           0.2             -             0.2            0.02            -             0.02
Erection & Conmissioning           -            0.7            0.7             -            0.09            0.09
Base Cost Estimate (RCE)         1.2            1.8            3.0           0.15           0.23            0.38
Physical Contingencies (10%)    0.2             0.2            0.4            0.02          0.02            0.04
Price Escalation (18%)          o0.2             04 o.6                       0.03          0.05            0.08
Total                        1.6            2.4           4.0            0.20           0.30            0.50
Industrial Projects Department
June 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
MADRAS FERTILIZER LIMITED - UREA DEBOTTLENECKING
1978 Incremental Production Cost Estimates
(in Constant 1975 Rupees)
I.   Incremental Output (starting 1978)        33,000 TPY of Urea
II.   Financial Production Costs
Units/ton Urea             Rs/Unit           Rs/ton Urea
A.  Variable Costs
1.  Naphtha                                             0.63 tons              835               526.0
2.  Fuel Oil (fuel)                                     0.17 tons              875                148.8
3.  Bags                                                4.5 pieces              20                 90.0
4.  Catalysts & Chemicals                               ---                    ---                 20.0
5.  Utilities & Other Expenses                          ---                     ---                30 0
Sub-Total                                                                           814.8
B.  Incremental Fixed Costs                                      Million Rs/Year          Rs/ton Urea
1.  Insurance & Taxes (0.5% of capital costs)                       0.05                  1.5
2.  Depreciation (1/12 of capital cost)                             0.78                 23.6
3.  Maintenance Expense (2% of capital cost)                        0.19                  5.8
Sub-Total                                             1.02                  30.9
Total Incremental Production Cost                              27.9                8_ L7
Cost Excluding Depreciation                                   27.2                  822.1
III.   Economic Production Costs
Units/ton Urea              Rs/Unit          Rs/ton Urea
1.  Naphtha                                                 0.63 tons               741 ($95)         466.8
2.  Fuel Oil (fuel)                                         0.17 tons               468 ($60)          79.6
3.  Bags (85% of financial cost)                                                                       76.5
4.  Other variable costs (90% of financial cost)                                                       45.5
5.  Fixed Costs (maintenance & insurance, 807. of financial cost)                                        h 
Total Economic Production Cost                                                                674 2
Industrial Projects Department
June 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
MADRAS FERTILIZER LIMITED - UREA DEBOTTLENECKING
Cost/Benefit Streams for Rate of Return Calculation
(in Millions of Constant 1975 Rupees)
Financial Cost/Benefit Streams                          Economic Cost/Benefit Streams
Ex-Factory                                               Economic
Value of                                                 Value of
Calendar        Capital        Incremental          Incremental           Capital       Incremental           Incremental
Year            Costs a/       Production Costs    Output b/              Costs c/     Production Costs       Output d/
1 (1975)         (2.5)               ---               ---                 (2.5)              ---                ---
2                 (4.6)              ---               ---                 (2.7)
3                 (1.4)                                                    (1.4)              ---                ---
4                ---                  27.2              37.9               ---                 22.2               50.2
5                 ---                 27.2              37.9               ---                 22.2               50.2
6                 ---                 27.2              37.9                                   22.2               50.2
7                 ---                 27.2              37.9                                   22.2               50.2
8                 ---                 27.2              37.9               ---                 22.2               50.2
9                 ---                 27.2              37.9               ---                 22.2               50.2
10                ---                  27.2              37.9                                   22.2               50.2
11                                     27.2              37.9               ---                 22.2               50.2
12                ---                  27.2              37.9                                   22.2               50.2
13                ---                  27.2              37.9                                   22.2               50.2
14                ---                  27.2              37.9                                   22.2               50.2
Financial Rate of Return = 65 %                          Economic Rate of Return    Exceeds 100%
a/  Disbursements are assumed as (in million of current rupees): 2.5, 5.2 (includinLg 2.2 ror duties) aud
1.7 Rs million during 1975, 1976 and 1977 respectively. Costs have been deflated to constant 1975 rLupees.
b/  At an ex-factory price of Rs 111/SO ton in 1978 and thereafter (in constant 1975 rupees).
c/  Excluding duties and deflated to constant 1975 rupees.
d/  At an economic price of US$ 195/ton of urea, composed of a CIF price of $185 and local handling of $10 per
ton respectively.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1975
fv 7J



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
MADRAS FERTILIZER LIMITED - COMPUTERIZED AMMONIA PROCESS CONTROL
Cost/Benefit Streams for Rate of Return Calculation
(In Millions of Constant 1975 Rupees)
Financial Cost/Benefit Streams                        Economic Cost/Benefit Streams
Calendar           Capital     Operating      Value of                 Capita       Operating      Economic Value cf
Year               Costs       Cost           Naphtha Saved$/          Costsd)      Cost           Naphtha Saved e/
1 (1975)            (0.4)                          --                   (0.4)
2                   (2.1)          ---             ---                  (1.4)
3                   (0.8)          0.3            2.2                   (0.8)          0.3               2.0
4                   --             0.3            4.8                   ___            0.3              '4.3
5                   ---            0.3             4.8                  ___            0.3               4.3
6                   ---            0.3            4.8                   ---            0.3               4.3
7                   ---            0.3            4.8                                  0.3               4*3
8                   ---            0.3             4.8                                 0.3               4.3
9                                  0.3            4.8                                  0.3               4.3
io                                  0.3            4.8                   ---            0.3               4.3
11                   -              0.3            4.8                                  0.3               4.3
12                                  0.3            4.8                                  0.3               4.3
13                                  0.3            4.8                                  0.3               4.3
Financial Rate of Return:       97 %                Economic Rate of Return:    Exceeds 100%
a/  Disbursements are assumed as (in millions of current rupees): 0.4, 2.4 (including 0.8 for duties) and 0.8 Rs million
during 1975, 1976 and 1977 respectively. Costs have been deflated to constant 1975 rupees.
b/ Mostly for additional labor.. Operating costs are estimated as equivalent to 20 man years @ Rs t5,OW per man year.
c/  Based on installation of computerized system in mid 1977, completion of urea debottlenecking at end of 1977 and
90% capacity utilization. Naphtha savings are 2,650 tons in 1977 and 5,800 tons thereafter and are valued at Rs 835/
ton in constant 1975 rupees.
d/ Excludes duties and deflated to constant 1975 rupees.
e/ At an economic price of Rs 741/ton of naphtha.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1975
r9= \A



ANNEX ,--
JNDThI- F!?{TILTZER 'DU3T;?' 2R'I1I'
GSFC - P±GJJC;T i}3Q&L;c2L CA ±;2J ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
1.        The Gujarat State Fertilizers Company (GSFC) wa3 incoroorated
uniaer the Cornpanies Act (1956) in Februanj 1962 to manufacture fertilizers.
The available fina-nce -was limited and w-ould have necessitated a olant
with lower capacity.  However, a schema was drawnm up to collect is 15
mnillion as e-quity capital fron farmers, businessmen and directors,
which enabled the financial institutions to give su-Lbstantial loans and
equity to GSFC. The lijarat State sponsored the project with its
participation to the extent of 49%Y of the equity stock.  The balance of
51 %, share capital was subseribed by the pub"ic., including 35, 000 farmers
.and the financial institutions (1 h, bar :DBI and 16% by other nationalized
financial institutions).  GSF'1s authorized share capital is Rs 150 million.
The company's balance sheet as of Marc,h 31, 1974 s1howed total assets of
Rs 695 million and a debt, equity ratio of hO:60. For the year ending-
MIarch 31, 1974 it showed a profit of Rs 25.4 million on sales of Rs 420
million, which was not distriouted as dividend but retained.  A total
of Rs 86 million was provided during the year for depreciation and
interest.  GSFC's first phase plants consisting of ammonia, urea,
sulphuric acid, phosphoric acid, arnmonium sulphate and di-ammonium
phosphate were commissioned in March - April 1967. The production of
fertilizers started in June 1967.  The rated final product capacity
-was of 323 TPD urea, 470 TPD ammonium sulphate and 340 TPD di-ammonium
phosphate. Well before the first phase completion date, GSFC took up an
exoansion of the ammonia-urea plants to fill the fertilizer supply gap,
which was quickly developing.  Thus, an additi'onal ammonia plant of
500 TPD capacity and a urea plant of 800 TPD capacity were established
and commissioned in September 1967. The urea plant was India's largest
single-stream plant and contributed to the success of GSFC as a
fertilizer company.  In 1972 construction started on X caprolactam
plant of 20,000 TRY capacity and an S02/01um plant together with
associ4ated steam generation and water treatment facilities. Thie
caprolactam unit will also produce 80,000 TPY of ammonnum s3ulphate.
These utits were completed in late 197h.
B   Operating Experience
2.        As a result of the commissioning of several nlants, the
installed capacity in terns of end products and inter%nediate rroriucts
is as follow.s



ANNEX 5-5
Page 2
Installed Capacity in MT Per Annum (1975)
(a) End Products              TPD         TPY
Urea                     1,123       367,000
Amonium Sulphate            470      228,000 Y
Di-ammonium Phosphate       340      108,000
Caprolactam                -          20,000
(b) Intermediate Products
Ammonia                     95o      315, 000
Sulphoric Acid              470      150,000
Phosphoric Acid
(100% P205)2              175        57,000
Cycloheawne                 -24,000
Oleu                        -         28,000
1/  Including 80,000 TPY produced by the caprolactam
plant as co-product.
2/  The bulk of the eapacity is for captive consumption for the
manufacture of caprolactam and the 4,000 TPY uorplus is for
industrial *ale. -
3.        GSFC is one of the most successful fertiliwar oompaiie  in -
India. Two factors account for this : the completion of projects as
scheduled and the high capacity ut4llization achieved in the urea plants.
The high quality of the staff and operating personnel of the coupany
has certainly contributed to the success of the enterprise. GSFO has
2,475 employees presently, out of which 1,360 are technical staff.
GSFO's philosophy is to recruit new staff by taking first-class college
and high-school graduates in different disciplines of science and
engineering for a two-year period of training. At present, about 80%
of the technical staff has come through the training program.
4.        The fertilizers production at GSFC since the start of the
operations is shown below:



ANNEX 5-5
Page 3
Trend of Production (in metric tons)
Product       1967-68    1968-69    1969-70    1970-71    1-971-72    1972-73    1973-74    1974-75
Urea           64,241      93,499    198,988    253,026    331,846    352,879    263,189    284,164
Ammonium
Sulphate     25,203      75,605     51,593    1C2,171    110,589    125,480    120,264    132,466
Di-Amonium
Phosphate    28,089      55,032     44,664      55,453      54,444     68,785      62,527     62,742
Caprolactam      -           -          -          -           -          -           -          6,410
Ammonia        59,372      99,684    156,207 2/ 202,736    253,133    275,928    228,600    253,452
Sulphuric
Acid         49,627      88,929      98,179     88,683      95,o06    127,979    132,324    121,624
Phosphoric
Acid         14,223      29,422      24,529     27,400      26,193     34,630      30,900     31,564
Oleum             -          -          -          -           -          -           1,877     10,668
C. Exansion and Debottlenecking Plans
50        The company is now engaged in a new program of capacity expansion
and debottlenecking, involving a capital outlay of about Rs 161 (US$20.6)
million including Rs 55 (US$7.0) million in direct foreign exchange 1/.
The program includes the following components : (1) purge gas recovery,
(2) fluorine recovery/cryolite production, and (3) phosphoric acid plant
debottlenecking all of which are proposed to be included in the IDA
fertilizer industry credit.
6.        The phosphoric acid (PA) plant supplies the P205 to the ammonium
phosphate complex and the operation of the PA plant influences the operation
of the connected plants, i.e., DAP and AS. These three plants were established
and commissioned in the year 1967-68 and since then they have been in
continuous operation. The current year 1975-76 is the eighth year of
operations and GSFC has continuously experienced difficulties in achieving
high capacity utilization of the PA plant. Even during the initial
commissioning of the PA plant, repeated attempts by the plant suppliers,
Hitachi Shipbuilding & Engineering Company of Japan, to give guarantee
test particularly as to production capacity were not thoroughly successful.
A number of additions and alterations have been carried out in the plant
from time to time. No doubt these measures have to some extent improved
the performance of the concentration section and as a consequence down-
time due to scaling of concentrator tubes, changing of diaphrams valves,
failure of pump glands, etc. have been minimized. Apart from the attempts
1/ Indirect foreign exchange is about Rs 5 (US$0.7) million. The company
will finance the local currency cost from internal funds and borrow the
foreign exchange requirements (IDA funds) through IDBI.



ALJNEX 5-5
Page 4
of addition and alteraticns, the rnost suitable rock feeding arrangement
was also kept in view.  Unfo:-ti.nately, -,he phosphate rock of the
required specification is rit alay-s availab`e to the ccrpany. This has
further aggravated the p±"eblens of corrosion ard eraosion in the ,'ant.
The plant can reach just 55J capacity outpiit because of the following
problems :
(a)  Use of different types of phosphate rock.
(b)  Poor digestion of phosphate rock.
(c)  Inadequate cooling in the rock digestion system.
(d)  Poor filterati.on.
GSFC has contacted Phosphatic Engineering Corporation (USA) to
study the problem and suggest the best economic way to achieve rated
production capacity and provide cost estimates for the project.  The
consultant will take about six months to develop the remedial measures.
It is anticipated that the suggested modifications will be completed by
January 1978.
7.        GSFC has two ammonia plants with a total of 950 tons per day
capacity, using the ICI naphtha steam reforming process. The feed gas
to the ammonia converters consists of hydrogen and nitrogern as reactants
and argon and methane as inerts. In the synthesis loop, as the
reactants combine to form amtronia, which is withdrawn, the concentration
of inerts starts building up.  A constant purge of gas is applied to
maintain the concentration of inerts constant. At present,the purge
gas is burnt in the primary reformer as fuel.
8.        The volume of gas purged is 9100 Nm3 per hour and its
composition is as follows :
Hydrogen      -   63.6% vol.
Nitrogen      -   21.2%  "
Methane.      -   10.0%
Argon         -    4.2%           0               2
lWater Vapour  -   Saturated at 40 C and 20 kg/cm g
Ammonia       -   0.15: - 0.08% vol.
9.        It is possible to recover methane  argon and the mixture of
hydrogen and nitrogen (in a ratio of 3 to 15 as ammonia synthesils gas,
by installing a separation plant based cn cryogenic technicues. The
advantages of the proposed plant are that :
(a)  An additional production of 63 toins per day ammonia
can be achieved by recycling the Hydrogen-Nitrogen mixture
to the synthesis reactorO The synthesis loop has spare
capacity to accommodate this extra production.



ANNEX 5-5
Page 5
(b)  Argon will be separated and sold on the Tndian market,
filling the supply gap which at present exists in the
country.  The existing argon producing units (5) have a
combined installed capacity of 0.45 million Nm- /year and
the actual production capacity is of the order of only
0.35 million Nm3/year. The task force on industrial
gases set up by Government of India have estimated a
demand of 1.5 million by 1979-80.
10.       The phosphate rock used as raw material in the phosphoric acid
plant have on average about 3 to 4% fluorine present as fluorides. This
fluorine is released in the phosphoric acid manufacturing process and is
distributed in the various steps of the process as follows
6 to 10% in the Digester
20 to 25,-- in the Concentrator
30 to 35% in the Gypsum
Balance about 30% in the finished product.
11.       The 25p fluorine released at the concentrator is absorbed irn
the recirculating cooling water, thus creating a pollution hazard. By
recovering this fluorine, the pollution hazard is reduced and the
recovered fLuorine can be used for the manufacturer of cryolite or
aluminium fluoride which at present are being imported to meet the
growing requirements of the aluminium industry. The proposed project
will recover fluorine from the concentrator in the form of hydrofluosilicic
acid. When the concentration of the acid reaches about 15%, the acid
is withdrawn to a separate tank. This 15% acid is then further
processed to manufacturer cryolite, by reaction with sodium fluoride
to form sodium silico fluoride. The sodium silico fluoride is then
reacted with soda ash solution to form sodium fluoride, which is
partly recycled  The silica, which precipitates,    is filtered out.
The remaining sodium fluoride is then reacted with aluminium sulphate
to form. cryolite which is washed, calcined and cooled before being
bagged.
D. New Ammonia - Urea Complex
12.       The Government of India has issued a Letter of Intent to GSFC to
establish a new fertilizer plant to manufacture 1,350 TPD ammonia and 1,600
TPD urea. The plant will be based on fuel oil and the required quantity of
fuel oil will be available from the nearby Gujarat refinery. It has been
decided to form a new company for the new fertilizer project. IThe State
Government of Gujarat and GSFC will be the joint promoters subscribing 51%
of the share capital of the new company.  Though a new company will be formed,
GSFC's involvement in the new fertilizer project will be substantial and con-
tinuous. The capital outlay for the new project will be about Rs 1,800 (uS$230)
million and about 40% (US$100 million) will be in foreign exchange. GSFC has



Ai~NiFX 5-5
Page 6
already received tenders from foreign engineering firms offering process know-
how, engineering design services and supplies. The tenders are being evaluated.
The Government of India has assured the company that preference will be given
to GSFC for the requirement of foreign exchange for the new plant. The present
indications are that part of the foreign exchange (US$35 million) would be
available from the Federal Germian Government through Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW).
E.   Purge Gas Recovery Project
13.       The purge gas recovery project is estimated to cost Rs 88.1 (US$11.3)
million including Rs 35.1 (US$4.5) million in foreign exchange. The purge gas
separation unit will have a capacity of 9,100 NM3/hour of purge gas. The pro-
ject will take 24 months to complete and should be ready by September 1977. It
will provide the following benefits:
a) additional production of 6~ TPDV ammonia;
b) recovery of about 7,860 NM of argon daily;
c) recovery of 19,660 NM3 per day of methane, to be used as
fuel in the ammonia plant.
F.  Fluorine Recovery Project
14.       The fluorine recovery project is expected to cost Rs 22.0 (US$2.7)
million of wihich Rs 8.2 (US$1.0) million will be in foreign exchange. At present,
the effluents from the phosphoric acid plant are treated with lime and chalk to
fix the fluorine into insoluble calcium fluoride. Since chemical treatment of
these effluents are mandatory, it would be economically advantageous to combine
this treatment with the recovery of commercially valuable fluorine compounds such
as cryolite or aluminum fluoride. Active silica is also recovered as a by-product.
15.       The fluorine recovery plant will have a capacity of 7,335 TPY of 15%
H2SiF6 and of 1,555 TPY of cryolite. Demand for cryolite in India is estimated
to be 10,000 tons per year by 1980. The present installed capacity for cryolite
in India is 7,200 TPY whereas the actual production is approximately 3,600 TPY.
Even assuming a higher utilization of 85% of the installed capacity, there will
still be a short fall of about L1,000 TPY by 1980. About 0.3 tons of by-product
active silica will be recovered per ton of cryolite. The active silica will be
used in the phosphoric acid plant at a saving of Rs 1,000 per ton of active
silica.
1/  Based on 0.38 tons ammonia per 1,000 NM3 of synthesis gas (3H2:N2).



ANNEX 5-5
Page 7
Cryolite Prodiction and Consumption
(ton.3 per year)
Year         Production        Consumption        Deficit
1969 *          2,178             5,949            3,771
1970 *          3,626             5,383            1 ,757
1971 *          3,759             4,925            1,166
1974-75         4,250             6,500            2,250
1978-79         6,700            10,700            4,000
*  Actuals
16.       The fluorine recovery/cryolite plant will require the following raw
materials:
a) soda ash (technical grade)--C.27 tons/ton of cryolite;
b) aluminum hydroxide--0.42 tons/ton of cryolite;
c) caustic soda--0.h0 tons/ton of cryolite.
17.       The project will be completed in about 30 months and start production
by April 1978.
G.   Phosphoric Acid Plant Upgrading Project
18.       The phosphoric acid plant upgrading project is estimated to cost
Rs 51.4 (US$6.6) million including Rs. 17.4 (US$2.2) million in foreign exchange.
The project will take 27 months to complete and the project benefits should
start by January 1978. The phosphoric acid plant, with a capacity of 175 TPD
of 100% P205, has operated at only about 55% of capacity during 1972/73 up to
197/75.' The project is expected to improve the situation and raise capacity
utilization to 70% in 1978 and up to 85% during 1979 and subsequent years. The
increase from 55% to 85% capacity utilization will add 17,330 TPY of P205
production.
19.       The project will also improve the P205 recovery from the present
average of 82% to about 94% of the P205 content of the phosphate rock. This
will reduce phosphate rock requirements from about 3.8 to 3.3 tons of rock per
ton of P205 output and also reduce sulfur consumption from 1.6 to 1.3 tons per
ton of P205/.
1/  The ratios of 3.8 tons phosphate rock and 1.6  tons of sulfur per ton to
P205 are the average for 1973/74 and 1974/75.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT                                 ANNEx 5-5
GSFC-Historical and Forecast Financial Statements
,in   lions of current rupees)
Actual                         Forecast with Projec t
E 73   191h        19751976           1977        1978
I.   Income Statoment for the Year Ending
March 31
Gross Sales                                457.5        415J4       816.9      1,009.4      1,020.7     1,084.0
Other Inccma                              -L .8                      j5            -           -
Revenue                             -U.           h2C.2        821.9     T1,0T 4       1,020.7 17!
Manufacturing & Other Expenses             268.0        277.9       54487         629.2       658.1       712.0
Interest Expense                            22.6         18.4        18.7         15.9         12.2        15.0
Depreciation Charges            2    2                   6                         884         9              0
Total Expenses                                                                                     -i0
Before Tax Profit                          118.3         55.9       165.2         275.9       256.h       280.0
Income Taxesg (61$) 2/                        -                     -i    ~      16            5.          7.
Net Profit             L       L o,3                           165.2         o                       109.2
II. Funds Flow Statement
Sources of j nds
NwDb  /                              -            -           -            :Ll.5        36.o        11.7
New Debtb                                118 .3        55.9       165.2        107.6        100.0       109.2
Depreciation                              57.9         68.0        93.3         88.4         94.O        77.0
Net Decrease in Working Capital    ,                   M20 5    2 0
Total Sources                         47          211.0        25.          275           3.         197.9
Uses of Funds
Proposed New Projects                     -            -           -            11 .5        77.0        73 .0
Other Capital Investments                :.6J.6      13h.0         26.0         25.0         25.0        25.0
Dividenda                                 17.2         20.8        13.6         13.6         20.8        20.8
Decrease in Borrowing                     27.0        56.2         62.3 64354                53. 0       47.0
Net Increase in Work4pg Capital           -156.6                                35.0         35.0        -
Outside Investments -I                    -                        -            78.7         19.2        32.1
Total Uses                            208.8       211.0        258.5        207.5        230.0       197.9
Actual                            Forecast with Project
22Z5 1l77                     2197        1978
III.  Balance Sheet as of March 31
Current Assets                             236.5        166.6       370.8          405.8          44o.8       458.3
Oross Fixed Assets                         820.0        965.3       990.6        1,027.1        1,129.1     1,209.6
Less: Accumulated Depreciation             280.2       348.0        440.8          529.2          623.2       700.2
Net Fixed Assets                        539.        617.3         1.            497.9          5 5.-9  5-09.4
Investments & Other Assets (net)            11.8          0.h         0.8                          98.7       130.8
Total Assets                                        7 3          92-1.7         9-CTI                    1,098.5
Current Liabilities                         72.4        89.7        137.3          137.3          137.3       137.3
Debt                                       30o.8        28L.6       222.4          190.5          173.5       138.2
Share Capital                              120.0       120.0        120.0          120.0          120.0       120.0
Reserves & Surplus                          25.9        290.0       4X1.7          535.L          614.6     ___.0
Equity                                  37M.9     --1_050        561.7          655.4          734.6       o23.0
Total Liabilities                      788.1        784-3        921.4          983.2        1,o45.4     1,098.5
Ratios
Return on Invested Capital, % e/          19.7        10.7         23.4           25.0           22.7        20.9
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                4.0          1.9         3.4            3.6            3.2         3.2
Current Ratio                              3.3         1.8          2.7            2.9            3.2         3.3
Debt/Debt + Equity, %                                 Id 41        28             23             19          1h
a/  No income tax liabilities up to 1975 due to development tax rebate.
b/ New debt represents the FX portion of the 3 propoSed projects (Purge Gas Recovery, Fluorine Recovery and Phosphoric
Acid Plant Upgrading).
c/  Includes working capital of Rs 17.5 million.
d/ GSFO plans to invest in a new company (another fertilizer plant). During FT 1976-IT 1978, GSFC can invest a total
of Rs 130 million for this new venture.
e/  The return is calculated as the ratios (net profit + depreciation + interest)/(debt + equity) at end of year.
Industrial Projects Department
July 1975



ANNEX 5-5
Table 2
INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
GSFC - CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES
A.   Capital Cost Estimates - Purge Gas Recovery Project
----- in Rs Million -----    ---- in US$ Million -----
Foreign     Local             Foreign    Local
Exchangel/ Currency  Total   Exchange  Currency  Total
Equipment & Spares (delivered)         18.8        9.7       28.5     2.4         1.2     3.6
Duties and Taxes                         -        10.0       10.0      -          1.3     1.3
Licenses and Engineering                3.5        0.5       4.0      0.4         0.1     0.5
Civil Works, Erection & Commissioning 4.7         12.9      17.6      o.6         1.7     2.3
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)               27.0       33.1      657      -3                   7.7
Physical Contingencies (10%)            2.7        3.3       6.o      0.4         0.4     0.8
Price Escalation (18%)                  5.4        6.6      12.0      0.7         0.8     1.5
Installed Cost                         35.1       43.0      78.1      4.5         5.5    10.0
Working Capital                          -         6.o        6.o      -          0.8     o.8
Interest during Construction            -          4.0       4.0       -          0.5     0.5
Project Cost                           35.1       53.0      M.,    77            77      11.3
3/  Includes Rs 2.4 (US$0.3) million in indirect foreign exchange.
B.   Capital Cost Estimates - FluorLne Recovery/Cryolite Project
.___- in Rs Million -----    ---- in US$ Million -----
Foreign      Local            Foreign      Local
Exchange2/ Currency  Total   Exchange  Currency  Total
Equipment & Spares (delivered)          5.0        4.8       9.8      0.6         0.7     1.3r
Duties and Taxes                         -         1.6       1.6       -          0.2     0.2
Licenses and Engineering                1.1        0.5       1.6      0.1        0.1      0.2
Civil Works, Erection & Commissioning 0.3          2.1       2.4      0.1        0.2      0.3
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)                7-4        9.0      15.4      o.8         1.2     2.0
Physical Contingencies (10%)            o.6        0.9       1.5      0.1         0.1     0.2
Price Escalation (18%)                  1.2        1.8       3.0      0.1        0.2      0.3
Installed Cost                          8.2       11.7      19.9      1.0         1  5     3
Working Capital                          -         1.0       1.0       -          0.1     0.1
Interest during Construction             -         1.1       1.1       -          0.1     0.1
Project Cost                            8.2       13.8      22.0      1.0         1.7     2.7
/  Includes Rs 1.2 (US$0.2) million in indirect foreign exchange.
C.   Capital Cost Estimate - Phosphoric Acid Upgrading Project
----- in Rs Million -----   ---- in US$ Million -----
Foreign    Local             Foreign    Local
Exchange2YCurrency  Total   Bxchange  Currency  Total
Equipment & Spares (delivered)          9.5       8.0      17.5       1.3        1.0     2.3
Duties and Taxes                         -        3.2       3.2        -         0.5     0.5
Licenses and Engineering                1.5       1.9       3.4       0.2       0.2      0.4
Civil Works,Erection,& Commissioning  2.4         3.4       5.8       0.2       0.5      0.7
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)               13T                              7 7              39
Physical Contingencies (10%)            1.3       1.6       2.9       0.2       0.2      0.4
Price Escalation (18%)                  2.7       3.4       6.1       0.3       0.5      0.8
Installed Cost                         17.4      21.5      38.9       2.2       2.9      4.1
Working Capital IV                      -        10.5      10.5       -           .3     1.3
Interest during Construction            -         2.0       2.0       -         0.2      0.2
Project Cost                           17.4      34.0      51.4       2.2        4.4     6.6
j Includes Rs 2.0 (US$0.2) million in indirect foreign exchange
Additional raw material stock, mostly sulfur and phosphate rock.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANNEX 5-5
Table 3
INDIA FERTILIZER INDUSTR! CREDIT
GSFC - Purge Gas Recovery Project Production
Cost Estimate (in constant 1975 rupees)
A. Variable Cost Rs per 1000 N     Parge G Pro       d
Financial    Economic Cost
Items           Unit1000 NM3ef Gas          Cost    Foreign      Local
Ptwge Gas  100C NM3     Exchange   Curren
Purge Gas            100C NW't              37.5         -       3715
Power                0.23 MWH               41.4       20.7      20.7
Steam               0o06 tons                3.6        2.5       1.1
Chemicals and other variable costs          62.         1         1.2
Total variable costs, Rs/1000 NM'of gas    145.                  go5
B. Fixed Costs, Rs million per year
Financial    Economic  Cost
Items                                       Cost    Foreign      Local
Exchange   Currecy
Salaries and overhead                        0.5        -         0.5
Maintenance materials (3% of capital cost)   2.5       1.0        1.0
Depreciation (1/12 of capital cost)          6.8        -          -
Other fixed costs                            1.7        -         1.
Total fixed costs, Rs million/year          11 .5      1.0        3
C. Average Production Cost (at 90% capacity utilization)
Financial    Economic Cost
Cost    Foreign     Local
Exchar4    currec
Rs/1000 NMfof Purge Gas                    322.3       69.9    139.o
Rs million per year                         20.9        4.5       9.1
D. Annual Output (at 90% utiLLzation and 90% recovery factor)
Synthesis Gas (3H2 N2)                      49.04 million NM&'
MoOm          (HNe                           5.84 million
Argon                                        2.34 milLionM
a! Unit costs of value used
9/ At 90% capacity utiLization 64.865 million NM3of purge gas is
processed per year.
E. Value of annual Output. Rs million
Economic
Financial   Foreign    Local
Exchange Currency
Synthesis Gas (3H2: N2)                    9.81         -     9.cn
Methane                                    0.58         -    0.58
Argon                                     35.10       17     17.55
45.4        17p  27.94
Financial      Economic
Purge gas (as fuel)                  Rs 37.5/1000 NM    Rs 37.5/1000 NM
Power                                Rs 1 804AWH        Rs 1 80/WH
Steam                                Rs  60/to          Rs  60/ton
Synthesis gas (312: N2               Rs 0.2A1M          Rs 0.2/
Methane                              Rs 0.1A&           Rs 0.1
Argon                                Rs  1S5/M3         Rs  15/M
Note:  i)  Synthesis gas (3H2::N2) value is set equal to the
present cost oi' generating synthesis gas in the plant.
ii)  Methane price is equal to cost of natural gas purchased
from O.N.G.C.
iii)  The argon ex-factory price is assumed as Rs 15/NM3 and
50% of the output is assumed to be exported.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANNEX 5-5
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT                                Table 4
GSFC-Fluorine Recovery/Cryolite ProAect Production Cost Estimates
A.  Annual ft"uction at 90°X Capacity Utilization
1,400 TPY of cryolite (Na3AlF6) and 420 TPY of active silica
B.   Production Costs (in constant 1975 rupees)
1. Variable Costs. Rs/ton of cryolite-/
Units/ton        Financial       Economic Cost
Item                                            of Cryolite       Cost          Foreign    Local
Exchange Currency
Aluminum Hydroxide (957,)                       0.42 tons        504.0           327.6         32.8
Caustic Soda (98%)                              0.40 tons        440.0          280.8         31.2
Soda Ash (98%)                                  0.27 tons        297.0          189.5         21.1
Fuel Oil                                        0.30 tons        264.0           150.5         15.8
Power                                           0.35 MWH          63.0             -          63.0
Bags                                            20 pieces         90.0            22.5        54.0
Other Variable Costs                                             400.0             -          360.0
Less: (i) Credit for Active Silica              0.30 tons        (300.0)      -              (270.0)
(ii) Reduction in Treatment Cost             -              (70.0)           -          (63.0)
Total Variable Costs, Rs/ton Cryolite                          1,708.0           970.9       244.9
2.9 Fixed Costs, Rs Million/Year
Economic
Financial               Foreign    Local
Exchange  Currency
Salaries and Overhead.                                    0.2                     -           7.2
Maintenance Materials (3% of installed cost)              0.6                    0.3           0.2
Depreciation (1/12 of capital cost)                       1.8                    -             -
Other Fixed Costs                                         0.1                     -           0.1
2.7                   0.3           0.5
C.  Average Production Cost (at 90% output)
Economic
Financial               Foreign    Local
Exchange Currency
Rs/ton of cryolite                                          3,636.6                1,1;5.-         602.0
Rs million per year                                             5.1                    1.7           0.8
1/  Unit prices (constant 1975 rupees) are assumed as follows:                                    Economic
Financial               Foreign       Local
Exchange    Currency
Aluminum Hydroxide, Rs/ton                                   1,200                    780.0          78.0
Soda Ash, Rs/ton                                             1,100                    702.0          78.0
Caustic Soda, Rs/ton                                         1,100                    702.0          78.0
Fuel Oil, Rs/ton                                               880                    430.0          45.0
Bags, Rs/piece                                                   4.5                    1.1           2.7
Power, Rs/MMI                                                  180.0                    -           180.0
Active Silica, Rs/ton                                        1,000.0                    -           900.0
Cryolite, Rs/ton                                             8,000.0                5,150            80.0
The raw material input requirements have been estimated by the appraisal mission from the technical
literature on cryolite manufacture from hydrofluosilic acid recovered from phosphate fertilizer
production. The raw material requirements vary with the specific processes/equipment used and
alternate raw materials, such as aluminum sulphate instead of aluminum hydroxide are possible.
Industrial Projects Department
July 1975



ANNEX 5-s
iND1A- ^ ERTLIlLZER !,NNS1.Y CREDIT Thule S
GSFC-P_c_   hate Planc l'pgrading  rct  Production Cos- Estimates
A.    Annual Production of 100- P2(5
Without Proje t   With Project
1.  Phosphoric Acid Plant CapacitN Utilization                   55%              857.
2.  Output, tons P20s                                         31,760            49,090
B.    Production Costs in Constant 1975 Rupees
1/
1.  Variable Costs, Rs/ton of P205                                                           Economic
Units/ton P205        'inancial      Foreign       Local
r.Xchange    Currenc.
Phosphate Rock                                 3.3 tons        ',062.5        -1SDo17         260.7
Sulphur                                        1.3 tons          780.0            679.9       100.1
Fuel Oil                                       0.15 tons         132.0             64.5         6.8
Other Variable Costs                              -               75.0             33.8        33.7
Less: Credit for Calcium Sulphate                               (195.0)          (170.0)      (25.0)
',854.5         2,410.0       376.3
2. Incremental Fixed Costs. Millions Rs/Year
Economic
Financial           Foreign        Local
Salaries and Overhead                             0.2                Exchange    Currency
Maintenance Materials (3% of capital costs)   1.2                     0.5           0.5
Depreciation (1/12 of capital costs)               3.2                 -             -
Others                                            0.3                  _            0.3
Total fixed costs, Rs Millions/year               4.9                 0.5           1.0
3.  Average Production Costs (based on incremental output of 17,330 TPY P205)
Economic
Financial           Foreign        Local
Exchiange    Currency
Ms/ton of P205                                     3,137.2            774=          4J4.u
Incremental Rs Million/year                           54.4               42.3         7.5
4.  Value of Incremental Output (17,330 TPY P205)
Economic
Financial           Foreign        Local
Rs Million per Year                                 65.8              52.9          2rn
5.  Value of Raw Material Savings Eor Existing Output of 31,760 T'Y P205, Rs Million/Year.
Economic
Financial           Foreign        rocal
Exchange    Currency
Phosphate Rock Savings                              9.9               8.7           1.Z
Sulphur Savings                                    5.7                5.0          0.7
Total savings                                     15.6               13.7           1.9
1/ Price assumptions are as follows:
Economic
Financial           Foreign       Local
-            ~~~~Exchange   5urrenc
Phosphate Rock, Rs/ton                                    625                546          79
Sulphur, Rs'ton                                           600                523          77
Fuel Oil (for fuel), Rs/ton                               880                430          45
Phosphoric Acid (100% P205;  price for 1978
and onwards), Rs/ton                              3,800               3,052         170
Pho5,phate rock economic price is based on f.o.b. price of $LtO per tx n plus $30 per ton for ocean freight
and $10/ton for local charges.
Sulphur economic price is based oni f.o.b. price of $37/ton plus $30 'ton for ocean freight and
$10/ton for local charges.
P205 economic price is derived from . TSP (46% P205) f.o.b. price o $150/ton of TSP plus $30/toni
for ocean freight and $10/ton for local charges.
Calcium sulphate is utilized to manufacture ammonium sulphate and h Ls been valued at one fourth
of the cost of the sulphur used in the P205 manufacture with the FX component based on the same
proportion as the sulphur FX cost.
Industrial Projects Department.
July 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
GSFC-Purge Gas Recovery Project Cost and Benefit Streams
(in millions of constant 1975 rupees)
Financial Cost/Benefit Streams                   Economic Cost/Benefit Streams
Financial                                        Economic
Capita    Operating   Value of    Net Cost/    Capital   Operating   Value of   Net Cost/
Calendar Year        Costa/    Cost         Output      Benefit       Costar    Costs        Output      Benefit
1   (1975)             7.0          -          -          (7.0)         7.0          -           -        (7.0)
2                     39.7          -          -         (39.7)        28.0          -           -       (28.0)
3   (1977) /          27.4        2.8         5.7        (24.5)        27.1         2.2         5.7      (23.9)
b                        -       14.1        h5.5         31.4           _         13.6        15.5       31.9
5                       -        14.1        h5.5         31.4           -         13.6        115.5      31.9
6                       -        14.1        L5.5         31.4           -         13.6        h5.5       31.9
7                       -        14.1        45.5        31.4            -        13.6         15.5       31.9
8                       -        14.1        h5.5        31.4            -         13.6        L5.5       31.9
9                       -        14.1        45.5        31.4            -        13.6         h5.5       31.9
10                       -        14.1        45.5        31.4            -         13.6        115.5      31.9
11                       -        14.1        45.5        31.4            -         13.6        45.5       31.9
12                       -        14.1        15.5        31.4            -         13.6        15.5       31.9
13                        -       14.1        h5.5         31.4           -         13.6        L5.5       31.9
14                       -        14.1        45.5        31.4            -         13.6        115.5      31.9
15                     (5.0)S-/   14.1        45.5        36.4          (5.o)c/    13.6         h5.5       36.9
Financial Rate of Return  = 33;                  Economic Rate of Return  = a14
a/ Based on a disbursement schedule of (in millions of current rupees) of Rs 7, Rs 1i1.1 (including Rs 13.0 for
duties), and Rs 37 (including Rs 4 for interest) during 1975, 1976 and 1977 respectively, converted to
constant 1975 rupees with interest excluded for the financial cost and both interest and duties excluded for
the economic costs.
b/  Production starts September 1977 at 50% capacity and reaching 90% by January 1978.
c/ The recovered working capital of Rs 6 million (1977 rupees) deflated to constant 1975 terms.
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                               M
July 1975                                                                                                                 0,



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
USK-Fluorine Recovery/Cryolite Plant Cost and Benefit Streams
(in millions of canstant 1975 rupees)
Financial Costs and Benefit Streams                Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
Capita;   Operating   Financial   Net C-ot!    Capital   Operating   Economic   Net Cost/
Costs!/   Cost         Value of    Benefit       Costsa/   Costs         Value of   Benefit
Calendar Year                                Output                                            Output          _
1   (1975)             1.0        _            _          (1.0)         1.0         -            _         (1.0)
2                      9.0         -           -          (9.0)          7.1        -            _         (7.1)
3                      6.6         -           _          (6.6)          6.6        -            -         (6.6)
i   (1978)b/           1.5        2.0         5.0          1.5           1.5       1-11         3.3         °.-
5                       -        3.3         11.2          7.9            -        2.5          7.3
6                       -        3.3         11.2          7.9            -        2.5          7.3         L.8
7                       -        3.3         11.2          7.9            -        2.5          7.3        1± .8
8                       -        3.3         11.2          7.9            -        2.5          7.3          M
9                       -        3.3         11.2          7.9            -        2.5         7?3          L..8
10                       -         3.3        11.2          7.9            -        2.5          7.3         h.8
11                       -        3.3         11.2          7.9            -        2.5          7.3         L.8
12                       -        3.3         11.2          7.9            -        2.5          7.3         h.8
13                       -        3.3         11.2          7.9            -        2.5          7.3         h.8
1L                       -        3.3         11.2          7.9            -        2.5          7.3         L8
15                     (0.8)R/    3.3         11.2          8.7          (o.8)c/    2.5          7.3         5.6
Financial Rate of Return = 30%                   Economic Rate of Return = 21t
a!  Based on a disbursement schedule (in millions of current rupees) of Rs 1.0, Rs 10.0 (including Rs 2.1 for duties),
Rs 9.0 (including Rs 1.1 for interest) and Rs 2.0 million during 1975, 1976, 1977 and 1978 respectively.
Interest is excluded from the financial costs and both interest and duties are excluded from the economic costs.
The costs have been deflated to constant 1975 rupee.
b/  Production is assured to start April 1978 at an average 60% utilization for the year and 90% from 1979 onwards.
c/  Recovered working capital deflated to constant 1975 terms.
0r
Industrial Projects Department
July 1975



INDIA - FETILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
GSFC-Phosphate Plant Upgrading Project Cost and Benefit Streams
Financial Costs and Benefits Streams                          Economic Costs and Benefits Streams
Value of     Value of Raw                                    Value of      Vajue of Raw
Calendar   Capital  Operating  Incremental Material         Not Cost/  Capital  Operating  Incremental  Material          Net Cost/
Year       Costsa/  Costs       output        Savings       Benefit    Costsa/  Costa        Output        Savings        Benefit
1 (1975)      3.5          -          -              -           (3.5)      3.5         -            -           -(3-5)
2            20.6          -          -              -         (20.6)      17.2         _            _           _           (17.2)
3            19.1          -          -              -         (19.1)      19.1         -            -            -          (19.1)
4 (1978)_1/    -         27.8       32.9           15.6          20.7        -        25.6         27.9        15.6           17.9
5              -         51.2       65.8           15.6         30.2         -        119.8        55.8        15.6           21.6
6              -         51.2       65.8           15.6         30.2         -        h9.8         55.8        15.6           21.6
7              -         51.2       65.8           15.6         30.2         -        h9.8        55.8         15.6           21.6
8              -         51.2       65.8           15.6         30.2         -        L9.8        55.8         15.6           21.6
9              -         51.2       65.8           15.6         30.2         -        h9.8        55.8         15.6           21.6
10             -         51.2       65.8           15.6         30.2         -        h9.8        55.8         15.6           21.6
11             -         51.2       65.8           15.6         30.2         -        h9.8        55.8         15.6           21.6
12             -         51.2       65.8           15.6         30.2         -        119.8       55.8         15.6           21.6
13             -         51.2       65.8           15.6         30.2         -        h9.8        55.8         15.6           21.6
lb             -         51.2       65.8           15.6         30.2         -        h9.8        55.8         15.6           21.6
15           (8.7)2/    51.2        65.8           15.6         38.9       (8.7)./   49.8         55.8         15.6           30.3
Financial Rate of Return   = 47%                            Economic Rate of Return   =40
a/  Based on a disbursement schedule (in millions of current rupees) of Rs 3.5, Rs 22.9 (including Rs 3.8 for duties), and
Rs 25.0 (including Rs 2.0 for interest) during 1975, 1976 and 1977 respectively. Interests are excluded fram financial
costs and both interests and duties are excluded from economic costs. Capital costs have been deflated to constant
1975 rupees.
b/  Incremental production is estimated to start January 1978.  During 1978 incremental output is 8,660 TPY PzD5 (70% total
capacity utilization).  During 1979 and subsequent years, incremental output is 17,330 TPY of P2n5 (85% total capacity
utilization).
c/  Recovered working capital deflated to 1975 constant rupees.
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                                    D
July 1975                                                                                                                         c



AN,E,T 5-6
I;DIA - FEdTI.LIZEA INDUSTrY CHIUJIT
SPIC - PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND ANALYSIS
I.   Fluorine Recovery and CryoLite Project
1.        This project is identical to the GSFC fluorine recovery/cryolite project.
The only difference is that GSF( has a 175 TPD (57,750 TPY) 100% P205 plant which
is assumed to operate at 85% stream efficiency thereby producing some L9,100 TPY
of P205 while SPIC has a 165 TPD (54,450 TPY) 100% ?205 plant which is assumned to
operate at 90% stream ef.ficiency, also producing some 49,000 TPY of 100% P205*
Hence the quantity of effluents to be treated and hydrofluosilicic acid (H2SiF6)
to be recovered are about the same. The capital costs capacities, operating
results and rates of return for the GSFC fluorine recovery and cryolite projects
are thus more or less applicable and are assumed to be identical to the proposed
SPIC project.
II. Soda Ash/Ammonium Chloride Project
A.   Capital Cost Estimate (including 30% for physical and price contingencies)
$ Million      Rs Million
i)  Foreign exchange                           9.9            76.9
ii)  Local currency:
- duties and taxes                         3.4            26.3
- working capital                          1.4            11.2
- interest during construction             3.3            25.7
- others                                  25.5           199.4
Total:                               43.5           339.5
Note:  The soda ash sub-pro-ect will be oTwred by a new rorpary Thjticurirn Alkai
Chemicals (TAC) which will be capitalized with 40% equity (10.4% general
public and financial institutions) and 60  long-term loans from the
financial ins-titutions.  The foreign exchange will be included in tne
proposed IDA credit and on-lent to TAC through IDBI as part of the
long-term loans.
B.   Benefits
2.        Production, at 90' outout of 65,3h0 TPY of Soda Ash and 65,340 TPY
of amnonium chloride (fertilizer grade) or a total of 130,680 TPv of product.
C.   Rated Capacity
3.        Product--440 TPD of product, equally divided into 220 TPD of soda
ash and 220 TPD of fertilizer grade !unmonium chloride (25%4 N).  At 9Q% capacity
utilization, prodiuction will be 130,680 TPY of product or 6z,3Li) TPY each of
soda ash and ammonium chloride.



A\ilNEX 5-6
Page 2
D.   Raw Material Requirements
4.        Ammonia--0.16 tons per ton of product about 70 TPD.  At 90% output,
ammonia requirements will be about 20,910 TPY.
5.        Carbon dioxide (CO2)--164 N13 per ton of oroduct or about 72,000
M3 Der day.
6.        Common salt (NaCl)--0.75 tons per ton of product or about 330 TPD.
E.   Implementation Period
7.        The project will take some 30 months to complete but implementation
will likely start January 1976 since financial support from the local financial
institutions is dependent on SPIC attaining sustained urea production. The
project is expected to be completed by June 1978.
Industrial Projects Department
d1over,iber 1975



DIDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY aEIT
SPIC-Capital Coet Entimate of Soda Ash/Ammonium Chloride Pr        1/octl
in Rs million                         in US$ Million             %
Foreign       Local      Total            iIcal  T                tl
Exchange     Currency                   Exchange   Currency
1.  Equipment, Supplies & Spares'/                  45.2        56.2       101.h             5.8        7.2        13.0   1!3.6
2.  Offaites                                          2.3       67.1        69.L             0.3        8.6         8.9    29.9
3.  Duties and Taxes./                                -         20.3        20.3             -          2.6         2.6     8.7
4. Licenses & Engineering                            11.7        7.8        19.5             1.5        1.0         2.5     8.1
5. Civil Works & Erection                             -         19.5        19.5             -          2.5         2.5     8.L
6.  Pre-Operating Expenses                        __ _           2.3         2.3             -          0.3         1.3     1.0
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)                  59.2       173.2      232.h             7.6        22.2       29.8   100
Physical Contingencies (10%                      6.0        17.)        23 )            0.8         2.2         3.0    10
Price Escalation (180)V/                        11.7        35.1       h6.8             1.5         1X.5        6.0    20
Installed Cost                            76.9       225.7      302.6             9.9        28.9       38.8   130
Working Capita A_/_-                                        11.2       11.2             -           1.L         1LA
Project Cost                              76.9       236,9      313.8             9.9        30.3       1,2
Interest During Construction_/                   -          25.7       25.7             -           3.3        3.3
Total Financing Required                        76.9       262.6      339.5             9.9        33.6       13.5
1/  The breakdown of this cost estimate was prepared by the appraisal mission based on SPIC's project cost estimate
of US$ 36 million including $7 million in direct imports.    A higher price escalation and working capital is
provided above.
2/  Imported equipment is on a CIF basis while the local currency cost includes local delivery charges for both imported
and local eauipment.  Directly imported equipment is Rs 31.2 (YS$4.6) million.  Indirect foreign exchange is Rs 1h.0
(US$1.8) million.
Du/ Dties are h0% of FX equipment and offaite costs while taxes are 5% of local currency costs for equipment and offaites.
18% of BCE plus physical contingency
;/ Taken as equivalent to 1 month's sales value.
{/ Based on an interest rate of 11% and a long term debt of $26 (Rs 203) million representing 60% of the financing reouired.
Fl!



ANNEX 5-6
Table 2
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
SPIC - SODA ASH/AMMONIUM CHILORIDE PRODUCTION COST ESTIMATES
A.  Annual Production at 90% Capacity Utilization
65,340 TPY each of soda ash and asmonium chloride (130,680 TPY of product).
B.   Production Costs (in constant 1975 rupees)
1. Variable Costs1 Rs/ton of productl"
Units/ton of    Financial       Economic Cost
Item                          Product         Cost             FX        LC
Ammonia                       0.16 tos          11o.4         124.8        _
Carbon Dioxide                16E NM1              -            -          -
Coumon Salt                   0.75 tons          90.0           -        81.0
Fuel Oil                      0.17 tons          151.3         73.1        7.6
Power                         0.18 MWH            32.4          -        32.h
Packaging Materials             -
Others                                            50.0          -        L5.0
Total Variable, Rs/ton of Product             434.1         197.9     202.0
2. Fixed Costs, Rs Millions/Year
Salaries and Overhead                             1.0          -         1.0
Maintenance Materials (3% of installed cost)    9.3           3.7         3.7
Depreciation (1/12 of capital cost)              27Ai          -          -
Other Fixed Costs                                 _            -         ° 5
Total Fixed Costs                             38.2          3.7        5.2
C.  Average Production Cost at 90% Capacity Utilization
Rs/ton of Product                                   726.4       226.2       241.8
Rs Million per Year                                  94.9        29.6        31.6
D.   Value of Output at 90% Capacity Utilization,!/   Rs F.illion/Year
Soda Ash                                             65.3          45.9      5.1
Anmonium Chloride                                    68.6           -        68.6
Total Value of Production                    133.9           h5.9     73.7
1/  Unit prices (constant 1975 rupees) are aasuned as follows:
Economic
Financial       FX            LC
1. Ammonia, Rs/ton                                     690           780            -
2. Carbon Dioxide, Rs/NM3                               -             -             -
3.  Comon Salt, RsA/ton                                120            _            108
h.  Fuel Oil, Rs/ton                                   890           130            15
5.  Power, Rsa/WE                                      180            -            180
6.  Soda Ash, Rs/ton                                 1,000           702            78
7. Amonium Chloride                                  1,050            -          1,050
Note:  The ammonia financial price is taken as 60% of the urea ex-factory price
(Rs 1,150/ton)--or about Rs 690 per ton of ammonia. The economic price
is taken as 50% of the urea CIF price (US$185/ton)--or about $100 per ton
of ammonia.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
SPIC - SODA ASH/AMHONIUM CHLORIDE PRODUCTION COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
(in million constant 1977 Rs)
Financial Costs and Benefit Streams                Economic Costs and Benefit Streams
Capital    Operating    Value of    Net -Cost/    Capital    Operating    Value of    Net Cost/
Cost/    cots           Outut       Benefits      Cost -/     Costs        Output      Benefits
1   (1975)                               -                               -
2                    99.0        -             -         (99.0)         99.0         -             -          (99.0)
3        )b/        107.9        -             -         (107.9)        86.1         -             -          (86.1)
4   (1978),/         56.1       28.8 64.6                (40.3)         56.1        30.1        39.9          (46.3)
5                     -         67.5        133.9         66.4           -          61.2       119.6           58.4
6                     -         67.5        133.9         66.4           -          61.2       119.6           58.4
7                     -         67.5        133.9         66.4           -          61.2       119.6           58.4
8                     _         67.5        133.9         66.4           -          61.2      1-9.6t           58.
9                     -         67.5        133.9         66.4           -          61.2       119.6           58.4
10                     -         67.5        133.9         66.4           -          61.2       119.6           58.4
11                     -         67.5        133.9         6644           -          61.2       119.6           58.4
12                     -         67.5        133.9         66.4           -          61.2       119.6           58.4
13                     -         67.5        133.9         66.4           -          61.2       119.6           58.4
1,                     -         67.5        133.9         66.4           -          61.2       119.6           58.4
15                     -         67.5        133.9         66.4           -          61.2       U9.6            58.4
16                    (8.5)./    67.5        133.9         73.9          (8.5)S/    61.2        119.6           66.9
Financial Rate of Return    19%                   Economic Rate of Return = 18%
a/ Based on a disbursement schedule (in millions of current rupees) of Rs 11O, Rs 130 (including RB 26.3 for
duties & taxea) and Rs 99.5 (including interest of Rs 25.7) million during 1976, 1977 and 1978 respectively.
Capital coats are deflated to constant 1975 rupees with interest excluded from the financial costs and both
interest and duties excluded from the econoeic coeta.
b/ Production is estimated to start July 1978 t 60% capacity utilisation and reaching 90% by 1979 and subsequent  p
years.
c/ Recovered working capital of RB 11.2 million deflated to constant 1975 terms.
Industrial Projects Department
July 197



AIhNEX 5-7
INDIA - FERTTLI  R ITDUSTRY CREDIT
HPCL - PROJECT DESCRIPTIO% ANID ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
1.       Hindustan Petroleum Corporation (HPCL - formerly Esso Eastern Inc.)
started operation in India at the beginning of the 20th century as a marketing
organization. The first refinery was on stream in 1954 to produce fuel
products and specialities.  In 1969 the company successfully coinissioned a
lube oil plant. While the fuel refinery and the marketing organization --
Esso Standard Refining Company of India Ltd. - was wholly owned by Esso
Eastern Inc., the lube refinery -- Lube India Ltd. -- was a joint venture of
Esso Eastern and the Government of India. The capacity of the refinery was
gradually increased to the present level of 3.5 million TPY of crude.
2.       In March 1974 the Government of India acquired 74% equity share-
holdings in both Esso Standard Refining Company of India Ltd. and Lube India
Ltd., therefore becoming the majority shareholder of the refinery operation.
Subsequently, Esso Eastern was merged into Esso Standard Refining Company0
Further in July 1974 Lube India Ltd. was merged with Esso Standard Refining
Company of India Ltd. into a new company with the name of HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM
CORPORATION LI1TED (HPCL).
B. Operating Results
3.       The consolidated income statement of the three functions, i.e.,
Marketing, Fuel Refinery and Lube Refinery, is presented below. Net pro-
fits have been of the order of Rs 50 to Rs 70 million between 1970 and
1972. Profit levels, however, declined in 1973 due to the irmposition of
various duties on petroleum products. Profitability in the petroleium
industry is largely determined by the pricing policies of the Government.
In the past few years, the pricing mechanism allowed the petroleum in-
dustry a return of 12% on capital employed on a pre-tax basis. HPCL
results show that the returns have always exceeded this level and in
1973 the pre-tax return was 29'. Recently, due to the steep cost es-
calations experienced by the petroleum industry, the Government 1l;cd set
up a committee to review the pricing structure of the industry. It is
expected that a pre-tax return of 15% on capital employed will be
recor-aended.
HThDUSTAN PETROIELJI CORPORATION LTD.
Incorne Statement for the Years 1970-1973
(Rs Millions)
1970        1971        1972    1973
Income before Depreciation,
Interest and Tax                  137          176        170      1-6o
Depreciation                        (27)        (28)        (28)    (28)
Interest                           (23)         (22)        (17)    (09)
Tax                                (36)         (50)        (75)    (82)
51          76          50      41



ANNEX 5-7
Page 2
Note:  Before March 13, 1974, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited existed
Ps three different corporate entities, namely: (a) Esso Eastern Inc.,
(b) Esso Standard Refining Company India Ltd. (both being wholly owned
by Esso Eastern Inc.) and (c) Lube India Ltd. which was jointly owned
by Esso Eastern Inc. and the Govermnent of India. The above numbers
have been approximated by consolidating their financial statements.
4.        The following table summarizes the balAnce sheet of HPCL. In-
vestment in fixed assets was of the order of Rs 340 to 380 million during
the year 1970-73, while working capital investment was of the order of
Rs 160 to 260 million in 1973. Th,e capitpl employed decreased from Rs 630
million in 1970 to Rs 500 million in 1973 due to a reduction in the working
capital. The surplus funds in 1970-1973 were used to reduce debt. Long
term borrowings are mostly from Manufacturers Hanover Trust and from USAID,
totalling Rs 460 million at the endi of 1974. These loans were used to
finance the construction of the Lube Refinery and will be repaid by 1979.
HINDUSTAN PET1ROLEUM CORPORATION LTD.
Balance Sheet as of Dec. 31 for the years 1970-73
(Rs Millions)
197(          1971         1972         1973
Fixed Assets                     377             368         356          337
Working Capital:
Current Assets:
Cash                          75            149           99           86
Sundry Debtors                 70)           67           36           45
Stock                        197'           239          194          224
Other Current Assets         llL             77           52           55
Less Current Liabilities   (211.)          (272)        (190)        (250)
Working Capital              2              260          191
Capital Employed                 626            628          547          497
Financed by:
Share Capital                    7E            78           78           78
Reserves and Surpluses         226            215          219          235
Others                          3h             65           60           65
Borrowings: Long Term          154            139          104           62
Short Term        130           125           80           51
Long Term Deposit               O             06           06           06
CapitalJ Employed              626            628          547          497
Debt to Equity Ratio          47:53          44:56        33:69        23:77



ANNEX 5-7
Page 3
5.        In 1974, the Government of India set up a fund called Petroleum
Industry Development Fund to provide financial assistance to projects in the
petroleum industry. However, for the proposed refinery debottlenecking project,
the company will borrow!/ the entire fund requirement (US$25.9 million) from a
consortium of financial institutions to be headed by IDBI.  IDA has been
requested by GOI to assist in the foreign exchange financing of the project
(US$4 million excluding working capital).
C. Proposed Project
6.        The debottlenecking project will expand the capacity of the refinery
in Bombay. The naphtha production would be increased from 245,000 to 487,000
TPY and the additional output (242,000 TPY) will be adequate to provide naphtha
feedstock to a large (1,000 TPD ammonia) ammonia plant.  The additional fuel
oil (962,000 TPY) will be sufficient to provide feedstock to almost four such
ammonia plants.
HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORPORATIO14 LTD.
REFINERY PRODUCTS OUTP-UT, '000 Ton/y-
Base Case       After Debottle-      Incremental
Present Capacity      neckin              Output
Light Distillates            336    9.6       364       6.i         28   1.1
1Naphthrl/                   245    7.0       487       8.i        242   9.7
Middle Distillates        1,504   43.0      2,772      46.2      1,268  50.7
Fuel Oil and Heavy Ends   1,162   33.2      2,076      34.6        914  36.5
Refinery Fuel & Losses       253    7.2       301       5.0         48   2.0
Total                3,500  100.0%    6,000    l00.0%       2,500 100.0%
1/  157,000 TPY of naphtha production is presently earmarked for chemical
usage (including ammonia feedstock).  The remaining 88,000 TPY are
sold on a "spot" basis.
SOURCE: data supplied by Hindustan Petroleum
7.        HPCL'as refinery debottlenecking will take full advantage of existing
facilities and infrastructure. In this way the installed cost (excluding
interest and working capital) will be kept low at Rs 140 (Us$18) million.
Given the additionpl refining capacity of 2.5 million TPY, the average
installed cost is about Rs 56 (US$7.2) per ton of crude oil refining capacity.
1/   The debt equity ratio of HPCL will still remain at about 50:50 even if
the entire project cost is borrowed.



ANNEX 5-7
Page 4
This level of investment is low when compared to the investment of about
Rs 150 to Rs 250 (US$20 to 30) per ton of crude capacity, depending on the
size and complexity, needed for a new refinery.  The factors reducing the level
of investment are:
a) availability of spPre capacity in the secondary and the
conversion process units;
b)  reactivation of an old pipestill to increase the fractiona-
tion capacity frcm 3.5 to 6.0 million TPY;
c)  availability of n second flare system which can be separated
from the existing blowdown system and tied in to the new
fractionation unit; and
d)  availability of infrastructures, such as warehouses, drainage
system, cooling water system, oil movement and storage facili-
ties, workshops and office buildings.
D. Raw MNterial Requirements and Operating Costs
8.        2.5 million TPY of additional crude oil (imported -- 80% Arabian
Light and 20% Arabian heavy crude or domestic crude from Bombay High) will
be processed by HPCL, raising t:ae total crude oil requirement to 6.0 million
TPY.
9.        The incremental operating cost (excluding crude oil, depreciation
and interest charges) is estima-ted at Rs 10.8 million annually as shown below:
Incremental Operatin  Cost
(In millions of constant 197rupees)
In Rs Million/Year
Item                                           Financial Cost    Economic Cost
Salaries, Wages & Overhead                         0.3               0.3
Chemicals & Catalysts                              0.5               0.4
Purchased Utilities                                2.6               2.3
Insurance (0.3% of total project cost)             0.6               096
Maintenance Expenses (3% of installed
plant cost)                                    142                3.4
Crude Receiving/Wharfage/BPT Charges               2.6               2.6
Total Operating Cost              10.7               9
E. Implementation Period
10.       The project will be implemented in about 36 months including some
4 months for testing and trial production0 Commercial production is expected
by October 19789



ANQEX 5-7
.                     ~~~~~~~Page 5
F. Petroleum Price Assumptions
11       The petroleum prices assumed in the project analysis are as follows:
Assumed Average Petroleum Prices in 1979 & Onwards
(In constant 1975 Rupees)
Product                Ex-Refinery Price    International (CIF) Price
Rs/ton         RsTton            US$/ton
Crude Oil (raw material)             -             610                 78
Naphtha                         -   610            700                 90
Other Light Distillates             920           1055                135
Middle Distillates                  740            780                100
Heavy Fuel Oil, etc.                580            h30                 55
G. Project Recurrent Costs and Benefits
12.       The recurrent costs and benefits at the full incremental output are
shown below:
a. Recurrent Benefits                         Value of Incremental Output
Quantity            in Rs Million/Year
Product               (1000 TPY)   Financial Value    Economic Value
Naphtha                        242            147.6             169.4
Other Light Distillates         28             25.8               29.5
Middle Distillates            1268            938.3              989.0
Heavy Fuel Oil, etc.           914            530.1              393.0
Refinery Fuel & Losses          48              -                  -
Total              2500            1641.8            1580K9
b. Recurrent Costs           Quantity           Cost in Rs Million/Year
(1000 TPY)    Financial Cost     Economic Value
Item
Crude Oil                    2500            1525.0             1525.0
Operating Costs                 -              10.8                9.6
Total                             1535.8              153h.6
c. Net Recurrent Benefits
In Rs Million/Year
Financial       Economic
Cashflow before Interest and Income Taxes    106.0            46.3
Cashflow before lnterest but after
Income Taxes _'60,                                           6.3
1/ The income tax is approximated on the basis of 12 years straight line
depreciation of Rs 13.8 million/year (working capital is not depreciated),
an average of Rs 10 million for interest annually and an income tax rate
of 57-75%.
Industrial Projects Deparment
I ly 1075



AN,E,. 5-7
Table 1
I-DIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
HPCL - CAPI1'AL COST ESTIMATE
--- in Rs Million ---      ---- in US $ Million
Foreignl"  Local           Foreig nt  Local
Exchange Currency Total   Exchange  Currency  Total
Equipment & Spares (delivered)    19.9         74.6  9Lb.5        2.6      9.5        12.1
Duties and Taxes                      -         6.5    6.5         -       0.8         0.8
Licenses and Engineering             0.5        0.6    1.1        0.1      0.1         0.2
Civil Works, Erection,&
Commissioning                       -        5.9   -.9           -.8                 0.8
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)            20.4       87.6  108.0        2.7     11.2        13.9
Physical Contingencies (lC%)         2.0       8.8   10.8         0.2      1.2         l.L
Price Escalation (18%)               4.0      17.14   21.4        0.5       2.2        2.7
Installed Cost                      26.L     113.8  140.2         3.L    T1.68
Working Capital                     30.0        7.0   37.0        3.8       0.9        1.7
Interest during Construction?/        -           25. 0 o-25o               3.2         3.2
Project Cost       56.1t    145.8  202.2         7.2     18.7        25.9
lJ Includes Rs 1. (US$0.5) million in indirect foreign exchange.
2/ The entire project cost will be financed with long-term debt.
Ii-dustrial Projects Department
July 1975



ANNEX 5-7
Table 2
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
HPCL - Cosr AND BENEFIT STRUMH FOR RATE OF RETURN CALCUIATION
(in million constant 1975 Re)
Financial Cost/Benefit Streams_/          Economic Cost/Benefit Streams
(in Rs millions)                        (in Rs millions)
Capita; Crude &      Value of Net       Capital  Crude &      Value of  Net
Year           Costs   Other Costs  Output   Benefit   Costs8  Other Costs  Output    Benefit
1 (1975)        13.0         _          _      (13.0)   13.0                -            (13.0)
2               32.4         -          -      (32.h.)   32.4          _         _       (32.4)
3               46.5         _          -      (46.5)   41.1           -         -       (41.1)
4 (1978)S/       54.8      38h.0      410.4   (28.5)   54.8          383.6    395.2    (43.2)
5                 -      1,535.8   1,641.8   106.0        -        1,53h.6  1,580.9       46.3
6                 -      1,535.8   1,641.8   106.0         -       1,534.6  1,580.9       h6.3
7                -       1,535.8   1,6141.8   106.0       -        1,53h.6  1,580.9       h6.3
8                -       1,535.8   1,641.8   106.0        -        1,534.6  1,580.9       46.3
9                -       1,535.8   1,641.8   106.0         -       1,534.6  1,580.9       16.3
10                -       1,535.8   1,641.8   106.0        -        1,534.6  1,580.9       46.3
11                 -      1,535.8   1,641.8   106.0        -        1,534.6. 1,580.9       L6.3
12                -       1,535.8   1,641.8   106.0        -        1,534.6  1,580.9       46.3
13                -       1,535.8   1,611.8   106.0        -        1,534.6  1,580.9       46.3
14                -       1,535.8    1,641.8   106.0       -        1,534.6  1,580.9       46.3
15                -       1,535.8   1,641.8   106.0        -        1,534.6   1,580.9      46.3
16              (28.1).V  1,535.8    1,641.8   134.1   (28.1)./   1,534.6  1,580.9         74.h
Financial Rate of Return    =49 %       Economic Rate of Return   =    26 %
/ Financial rate of return before income taxes.
o/ Capital costs exclude interest charges (also exclude duties in economic costs) and are based
on a disbursement (in Re million_and current terms) scheduled of:
Financial       Economic
Year 1 (1975)              13.0           1300
Year 2                    36.o            36.0
Year 3                    56.o            49.5
Year 4                    72.2            72.2
Total        177.2          170.7
c/ Production starts October 1978.
d/ Working capital acquired in 1978 (Rs 37 million) deflated to 1975 rupees.
Industrial Projects Department
N,veriber 1975



ANNEX --8
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
COROMAiCDEL - PROJECT DISCRIPTION AND ANALYSIS
A.   Introduction
1.        Coromandel was issued an industrial license in March 1961 for the
manufacture of various grades of Ammonium Phosphate and prilled urea, and
for this purpose it acquired about 40 acres of land at Visakhapatnam on a
50-year lease from the Visakhapatnam Port Trust. This site, on which the
plant is now located, is adjacent to the Caltex Oil Refinery and about 2-1/2
miles from Visakhapatnam harbor.
2.        Coromandel Fertilizers Limited was incorporated as a private company
on October 16, 1961 by the promoters, Chevron Chemical Company (USA), Inter-
national Minerals and Chemical Corporation (USA), and EID Parry Limited (India);
the latter company was formed by the merger of East India Distilleries and
Parry & Company, who originally were involved in the selling of fertilizers
and chemicals. The company went public on April 10, 1964. Approximately 55%
of the share capital ia presently owned by the original three promoters
(Chevron 26%, IMCC 23%, and EID Parry 6%) with the balance being held by the
public and Indian financial institutions. Total funds employed in the company
as at the end of 1973 were Rs 366.8 million made up of:
(in Rs million)
Issued and subscribed share capital    95.8
Reserves and surplus                     25.0
Long-term loans                         246.0
Debt to equity ratio as at the end of 1973 was 72:28. Long-term loans (out-
standing) came from the Export-Import Bank of the USA, US AID, and the Indus-
trial Development Bank of India.
3.        The Lumus Company of USA together with Lumus (India) was the prime
contractor for construction of the works with five major subcontractors, namely:
M. W. Kellogg Company (USA) acting as subcontractor for the design of the
ammonia unit; Vulcan-Cincinnati Inc. (USA) for the design of the urea unit;
Chemical Construction Company (USA) for the design of the sulfuric acid unit;
Dorr-Oliver Inc. (USA) for the design of the phosphoric acid unit; and Wellman-
Lord Inc. (USA) for the design of the complex plant. Construction was started
in the first quarter of 1965 and was completed in December 1967. First pro-
duction of ammonia commenced in December 1967 with urea following soon after-
wards; manufacture of complex (28-28-0) started in February 1968. During
commissioning of the plant, the Company had the assistance of about 35-40
operators provided by Chevron and 11CC and was further assisted by its own
local supervisors having had experience in similar companies in India.
Plant production reached 85% of desL..gn capacity within 7 months of commission-
ing and progressively improved to 92% by 1972 in spite of intermittent inter-
ruptions in the supply of power and water.



ANNEX 5-8
Page 2
B.   Production
4.        Coromandel presently has a capacity of 400 TPD urea and 325 TPD
ammonia but an expansion program will raise the ammonia capacity tc 357 TPD.
The phosphoric acid plant is also being expanded from 225 TPD P205 to 400 TPD
P205. Similarly, the sulfuric acid plant capacity is being raised from 600
TPD to 900 TPD. The expansion program will be completed by the end of 1975.
The principal products are two high analysis NPK fertilizers (28-28-0 and
14-35-14) with all urea being used in the NPK mixes by 1976. NPK capacity
is equivalent to 1,040 TPD of 28-28-0. The expansion program will cost Rs 90
(US$12) million including Rs 25 (US$3) million in foreign exchange.
5.        The plant has a present annual demand (on a design basis) for
88,000 MT per year naphtha, 73,000 MT per year sulfur, and 235,000 MT per
year phosphate rock. Naphtha requirements are supplied from the adjacent
Caltex refinery while sulfur and phosphate rock are imported and delivered
to the works by railwagons allocated by the Port Authority. Fresh water
requirements are drawn from the Municipal Supply System which is fed from a
catchment about 35 miles to the west.  To minimize periodic fresh water short-
ages the company constructed a 10 million gallon storage tank during 1970/71.
Most cooling in the works however is done by salt water supplied via an open
channel from the harbor about 1-3/4 miles in length which is owned and main-
tained by Coromandel.
6.        Power is supplied by the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Board (APEB)
which operates both thermal and hydro stations having a total capacity of
about 660 MW to which one additional generating unit has recently been added.
When it first started, the Coromandel fertilizer works experienced severe
problems from power supply interruptions and dips in the supply voltage but
the problem was largely alleviated when the APEB brought in its Upper Silearu
hydroplant in 1969.  Power is now delivered at 220 KV and stepped down to 11 KV
at the works. In January 1973 there-were political disturbances in the State
of Andhra Pradesh and severe power cuts were experienced during the year. At
one time the works was without power for a period of 50 days and power was cut
by about 25-40% during peak periods throughout most of the year. Cverall in
1973, lost output due to power supply problems represented about 25% of
potential production. The company is normally subject to power cuts only
during the summer months but voltage dips are still experienced throughout
the year. The total contractual power consumption of the works is 23 MW but
actual usage at full load is about 21-22 iAW. Tata Consultants (India) were
appointed by the company to make a stabilization study of the APEB system to
determine how a constant supply could be achieved. The consultant's report
of this study which was conducted with the full cooperation of the APEB was
submitted about September 1974.  Its recommendations which basically apply to
the APEB are still under review.
7.        Coromandel's production performance since start-up taking into
account these difficulties has been commendable and annual outputs are shown
below:



ANNiEX 5-8
Page 3
Amonium Phosphates      Prilled Urea      Capacity Utilization in
Year                  All Grades (MT)          (MT)            Terms of Nutrients (%)
1968 (10 months)         121,586               27,735                    57
1969                     1814,874              114,347                   70
1970                     217,055                3,256                    76
1971                     246,382                   722                   85
1972                     255,188                6,678                    91
1973                     180,676                1,891                    65
1974                     177,950                3,852                    64
1975 (estimate)          248,400               28,000                    90
8.        While the drop in output in 1973 was mainly attributable to reduced
power supplies, the poor result for 1974 was caused primarily by mechanical
problems in the primary steam reformer and the Syngas/BFW exchanger of the
ammonia plant caused by thermal shock resulting from numerous crash shutdowns
mainly as a consequence of fluctuations in power voltage. This necessitated
a complete retubing of the primary reformer in September 1974 which took 72
days.  During this operation, however, it was found that the hot gas transfer
line between primary and secondary reformers had to be replaced and this took
a further 20 days. All replacement tubes for the primary reformer had to be
air freighted because the decision to effect the replacement was delayed and
delivery of the tube order was as well delayed due to the UK (from where the
tubes were supplied) being on a 3-day work week at that time due to a pro-
longed strike in the coal industry.  The company has ordered a new Syngas/BFW
exchanger for delivery towards t:ae end of 1975.  In general the company says
it has usually been able to obtain its essential requirements of foreign
exchange even though this requires submission of a great deal of supporting
evidence and considerable persuasion. In 1970 when the company suffered
damage to its reforming catalyst it was able to obtain the foreign exchange
to secure a replacement immediately.
9.        At present the company employs a total of about 1,016 persons
including those located at its helad office in Hyderabad, and therefore has a
far more efficient labor utilization than similar public sector undertakings.
Its staff has only marginally increased since start-up in 1968 and presently
is distributed approximately 20% managerial and supervisory, 11% clerical,
54% skilled and semi-skilled, and 15% unskilled.
C.   Problems and Proposed Projects
10.       The company regards unreliability of power supply as its major
problem in achieving continuing high production rates in the future. The
only existing emergency power generation plant on the works is a 200 KW set
supplying the plant instruments and critica-L equipment in the phosphoric
acid plant. Some additional protection is also afforded in the ammonia plant
which is equipped with steam driven reformer pumps and fans, supplied from



ANNEX 5-8
Page 4
self generating boilers thus enabling the naphtha reformer to be kept running
in the event of a power blackout. Most of the large electric motors are,
however, supplied from the grid and being of synchronous type trip out when
voltage and frequency fluctuations in the power supply become excessive. In
1974 the works suffered 6 or 7 such motor trippings which although causing
disruption to production was an improvement on previous years. If the dura-
tion of the tripping is only about one minute, the works is able to get back
to full production within 3 hours. While the stability of the power supply
has shown considerable improvement the company is doubtful that the supply
authority will be able to supply its full requirements in the future, in view
of past rationing and the dependency of the hydroplants on good rains in the
summer months. The company was exempted from power cuts in 1974 but believes
it may have been so favored because its power consumption overall was low due
to extended production shutdowns thus qualifying it to draw its full require-
ments when actually on line.
11.       In March 1975 Coromandel was notified that the APEB has imposed a
power cut of 20% on the supply to the factory. In fact power cuts as high as
30% have been experienced since then. A study of the power supply/demand
situation in the State has been undertaken by the company and the management
is convinced that power cuts of 25-30%, at least during the four summer months
should be expected up to the mid or late 1980s. The company has therefore
requested, and received permission from the State Electricity Board to install
a 5 MW power generator provided the unit is used only when power is not avail-
able from the grid. In view of the urgent need to restore the power supply in
the shortest time the company is proceeding with plans for installing a new 45
TPH coal fired boiler and a 5 MW condensing turbo alternator and has requested
IDA assistance for this project. The coal-fired boiler will operate throughout
the year, providing processed steam during 8 months and steam for power during
the four summer months. This will reduce the fuel oil consumption of the
company as the existing boilers are all fuel-oil fired. The estimated cost of
the power unit is Rs24 (US$3.0) million including Rs 6 (US$0.8) million in
foreign exchange.
12.       This investment has already been approved by the company's board
and the State, and Central Government approval is expected shortly. The Central
Government is also encouraging the company to proceed with the company's plans
for recovery of fluorine produced in phosphoric acid manufacture as an anti-
pollution measure and to produce aluminum fluoride. The company has recently
decided to proceed with the project and has also requested IDA assistance to
meet the foreign exchange cost of the undertaking. The fluorine recovery unit
will be similar to the unit planned by FCI's Sindri Division, with a capacity
of 3,835 TPY of aluminum fluoride. The estimated capital cost of the fluorine
recovery project is Rs 42 (US$5.5) million including Rs 18 (US$2.4) million in
foreign exchange.
13.       The company has adequate resources to finance both the captive power
project and the fluorine recovery project with internally generated funds.



ANNEX 5-8
Page 5
However, it will need foreign exchange allocation to meet the foreign exchange
costs of the two projects. About US$4 million is included in the proposed
IDA Fertilizer Industry Credit for these two projects and will be made avail-
able by the Government to the company onl a purchase basis. However, as a
condition of disbursement of the foreign exchange, the company will enter into
an agreement with the Government to utilize the funds according to IDA pro-
curement procedures.
14.       The economic rate of return of the captive power project is 70%
and that of the fluorine recovery/aluminum fluoride project 28%. Sensitivity
tests indicate the returns would still be at least 15% even under moderately
adverse conditions--such as a simultaneous 20% increase in capital costs and
a 20% decrease in project benefits.
D.   Project Costs and Other Data
I. Captive Power (5 MW) Unit with 45 TPH Coal-Fired Boiler
a) Capital Cost Estimate (including 30% for physical and price
contingencies):
$ Million       Rs Million
i) Foreign exchange                       0.8             6.2
ii) Local currency: - duties               0.3             2.3
- others             1.9            15.2
3.0            23-.7
b) Gross Benefits
i) 25 days' production (aboat 29,500 tons of NPK product) which
would otherwise be lost during the four summer months due to
a projected 25-30% power cut.
ii) Reduction in fuel oil consumption from 0.41 tons per ton of N
to 0.29 tons per ton of N or a net reduction of about 7,800 TPY
of fuel oil even with the higher production of 86,400 TPY of N
with the captive power unit compared to 79,200 TPY of N without
the captive power unit.
c) Rated Capacities of the Prodiuction Units
as end of 1974    as end of 1975
-ammonia unit             325 TPD NH3      357 TPD NH3 (96,000 TPY N)
-phosphoric acid unit    2215 TPD P205    400 TPD P205 (132,000 TFY P205)
-sulfuric acid unit       600 TPD          900 TPD
-urea unit                4a) TPD          400 TFD
-complex fertilizer unit
(28-28-0 equivalent)  1,040 TPD         1,040 TPD



ANNEX 5-8
Page o
d) Projected Production 1978 and Onwards
Without Captive            With Captive
Power Unit               Power Unit
Product _N ___          Product     N     P205
i) complex fertilizers:
- 28-28-0               240.4  67.3   67.3      262.1    73.4    73.4
- 14-35-14              85.o  11.9   29.8        92.8    13.0    32.5
Total:               325.4  79.2   97.1      354.9    86.4   105.9
ii) % of nutrient capacity         82%    74%                90%      80%
Without Captive     With Captive
Power Unit        Power Unit
iii) stream days per year                        272                 297
iv) average product composition (NPK)        24-30-4            24-30-4
v) average ex-factory price in cTrrent
Rs per ton of NPK product 11           2,690               2,690
e) Raw Material Consumption (average over one year)
Without Captive     With Captive
Power Unit         Power Unit
i) naphtha, tons/ton of N in final
product                                  1.1                 1.1
ii) sulfur, tons/ton of P205in final
product                                  1.0                 1.0
iii) phosphate rock, tons/ton of P205
in final product                         3.2                 3.2
iv) fuel oil, tons/ton of N in final product:
-for dryers                                0.05                0.05
-for process steam                         0.36                0.24
v) coal, tons/ton of N in final product:
-for power (per ton of incremental N)       -                  2.54
-for process steam                          -                  0.37
vi) power, MWH/ton of N in final product:
-purchased power, MWH/year               158,400             158,400
-generated power, MWH/year                  -                 14,400
vii) production by nutrient (1000 TPY):
-N                                        79.2                86.4
-P205                                     97.1               1o5.9
f) Implementation Period
The project will be implemented in about 27 months and be ready
by the end of 1977.
1/ Actual 1974 and 1975 prices (in current terms) are Rs 2,316 and Rs 2,690
per ton respectively. It is assumed that prices will remain the same in
current terms up to 1978.



ANNEX 5-8
Page 7
II. Fluorine Recovery Project
a) Capital Cost Estimate (including 30% for physical and price
contingencies):
$ Million     Rs Million
i) foreign exchange                2.4            17.6
ii) local currency: - duties        o.6             4.3
- otthers  /    2.5         _20.4
Total:                        5.5           42.3
b) Benefits
Recovery from the effluents of the phosphoric acid manufacture of
hydrofluosilicic acid (H2Si?6) whichL will be converted into aluminum fluoride,
AlF3 (or alternatively into cryolite). At present, these effluents are treated
by lime and chalk to fix the fluorine into insoluble calcium fluoride. Since
chemical treatment of these effluents are mandatory, it would be economically
advantageous to combine this treatment with the recovery of commercially valuable
fluorine compounds such as aluminum fluoride and/or cryolite.
c) Proposed Plant Capacity
i) 3,835 TPY of 96% aluminum fluoride (equivalent to a recovery of
4,280 TPY of 100% H2SiF6). Production at 90% output is 3,450
TPY AlF3 (3,850 TPY of 100% H2SiF6).
ii) 1,290 TFY of by-product active silica (at 90% output).
d) Raw Material Requirements (at 90% output)
i) aluminum hydroxide, 1.17 tons/ton of AlF3 or 4,040 TPY;
ii) line, 0.07 tons/ton of AlP3 or 240 TPY.
e) Implementation Period
The project will be implemented in about 30 months and will be
completed about April 1978.
j   Including Rs 1.0 million for working capital.
Industrial Projects Department
November 1975



ANNEX 5-
Table 1
INDIA - FFlTThIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
Coromandel Fertilizer Limnited--Income Statement and Balance Sheet 1974-76
(in millions of Rupees)
1974       1975       1976
Actual    Budget    Forecast
I.  Income StatDmet for 'ear Drding
Doe. 3
uross Sale                           428.6       703.6      932.1
Less  Excise duties, comnissims,
transport and handling
peBs                          _78.6      132.9       1 83.1
Net Ex-Factory Realimation           -3;50. 0;              749.0
Mamnfacturing Costs
Variable Cowta                     124.3       289.9      422.0
Fixed Couts
Depreciation                      46.3        49.4       53.4
Othe Fixed Costa                  65.4        81.8       90.2
2360  2-1.1      ;  ;;
luretory Adjustat                    O.         (6.5)
Cost of Goods Sold                   236.4
Selling & Aadnistrative Costs          10.1       15.0       17.3
Txteet  rpwesw
Interest o Long-Twm Loans           17.7        16.0       13-9
otbsr Interest Exp es                 o.6       3-.
Total interest                      1b.3      - j         16
Operating Profit                       85.2      121.6      149.7
Ron-Operating Ticoe (UIpunses)         4.7        1.2        1.3
Profit Before Taxes          ;.9                T18         151 .0
Inoome Taxes                             -                  123.3
Profit Atr.
1974       1975       1976
II. Balance Sest as of Dec. 31             Actual     Budget   Forecast
Asseta
Ourrent Assets                     276.0       375.4      409.0
aross Fixed Assets in Operation    491 .0      555.6      555.6
Least hAca. Depreciation           3165        367.9      42i.3
Net Fixed Assets in Operation               ;             13C4.3
Capital Works in Progress  /        33.0         0.         0.4
Total Aasets                                   563155  -
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Onrf at Portion of L.T. Debt        26.3        40.4       40-4
Other Currant Liabilities           53.         50.8       5.7
Total Current Liabilities            3          7         7557
Long-Term Loans                      210.4       170.0      129.6
Equity
Share Capital                       95.8        95.8       95.8
Reeerve                             95.8       206.5      223.2
Total Eity                         191.6       3°        339.
Total Liabilities                    481.5       563.5      543.7
Current Ratio                         3.5         4.1        4-3
Debt Equity Ratio                    52:48       36:64      29:71
Debt Service Coverage Ratio           3.5         3.3        1.7
17  110 tax liabilities during 1974 and 1975 due to developmuent rebate.
2/ koluding the proposed two projects (poweir and fluorine recovery).
Includes dividends payable of Rs 11.5 mitlion for each year.
Iadustrial Projescts Department
July 1975



ANNEX 5-8
Table 2
INDIA:  FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
COROMANDEL - CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES
A. Capital Cost Estimates - Captive Power Project
-- in Rs Millions -----    ---- in US$ Million -----
Foreign        Local            Foreign        Local
EycharLi/  Currency  Total   Exchanzei/  Currency  Total
Eouipment & Spares (delivered)           6.2         7.8     1I.0       0.8          1.0      1.8
Duties and Taxes                          -          2.3       2.3       -           0.3      0.3
Licenses and Engineering                  -          0.5       0.5       -           0.1      0.1
Civil Works,Erection & Commissioning    -            3         3.0       -           0.3      0.3
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)                 6.2        13.6     19.2 0.8                1.7      2 
Physical Contingencies (10%)              -          1.6       1.6       -           0.2      0.2
Price Escalation (18%)                    -          2.3       2.3       -           0.3      0.3
Installed Cost                           7'?        17.5     23.7       77'- 2T2              3.0
Additional Working Capital                -           -         -        -            _        -
Project Cost                          6;         177 5     7 3'      77           2.2     3.0
1/ Includes Rs 1.5 (US$0.2) million in indirect foreign exchange.
B.  Capital Cost Estimates - Fluorine Recovery/Aluminum
Fluoride Pro,iect
----- in Rs Millions -----    ---- in US$ Million -----
Foreign        Local            Foreign 2      Local
Exchaneg-/  Currency   Total  Exchange-/  Currencv  Total
Eouipment & Spares (delivered)          10JA        10.0      20.),      1.L         3 3      2.7
Duties and Tapes                          -          3.3       3.7        -          O.k      O.t
Licenses and Engineering                 2.)       . 1.0       3.l       0.3         0.1      0.k
Civil Works,Erection & Commissioning   0.7           60. L.7            0.1          0.6      0.7
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)                13.         18.3      31.8      1.8          2.T1      !.2
Physical Contingencies (lo%)             1.L         1.8       3.2       0.2         0.2      O.L
Price Escalation (18%)                   2.7         3.'       6.3      O.a          O.IL    0.8
Ins,1 lI Cost                          17.5        23.7      L1.3       2.L         2.0      7T
Additional Working Capital                -          1.0       1.0        -          0.1      0.1
Projpct Cost                         17.k        2L.7      L2.3      2.1          3.1      5.5
2/ Includes Hs 2.5 (US$0.3) million in indirect foreign exchange.
Tndustrial Projects Department
L;Zenveer l975



fMik - F3RTThIZER INDISTRY C8DIT                                  ANNEI 5-5
Table 3
Corandel Fertihizersa 1mited--Prodaction Cout Jatimates
(in constant 1975 Rupeoe)
I.  1978 Incrmental Production Cost Estimates - Captive Power Project
A. Inc-rne-mtal Output
N?X M_30-4) 29,500 TP1
B. NPK (average 24-30-4 ) Produotior Cost Estimate in Constant 1975 Ruoees
1. Inoracectal Variable Production Costs!"                  Financial                  Fconoice
Costs                      Costs
(B.s/ton nP-               (f.ton NPK)
poroign          Cocci
Xxchange         Currency
a. Raw Materials
Naphtha                                                221.8            185.3             20.6
Phosphate Pock                                        600.0             524.2             75.8
Salphar                                               180.0             156.8             23.2
Mariats of Potash (60% K20)                             52.o             46.8                 2
Sob-Total, Rea Materials                       t13B7
b. Fbel Oil (for kteam  nd drying)                          61.2             29.9               3.1
c.  Coal (for Steam and power)                              62.9               -               59.8
d. Bags                                                     90.0             22.5              54.0
e. Chemicals                                                22.1             13.3               6.6
f.  Other Variable Expeasesab                               10.0               -                5.2
Total Variable Costs (Rs/ton NPK)              __;                 .7
2.  inoremental Fixed Costs                                 Financial                   Economic
Costs                      Costa
Rs million/year            Rs allion/Yapr
a. Salarisa, Wages and Ovrhead                               0.3               _                0.3
b.  Insurance and Taxs (0.5% of cost)                        0.3               -                0.2
o. Minteance Expoere  (2% of nest)                           1.2              0.5               0.5
d. Depreciation (1/12 of noet)                               2.                - _
Total Fixed Costs (Rs MAillio./year)               3E              *                  1. 0
3. Avarage Production Cost                                 Financial                   Econesic
LFo2r. Exch-nRe ILoca Currn
a.  Rs/ton of NPXK                                       ,I 2bE             995-              217 e
b. Rs Million/year                                         12.1              29.4               8.5
II. 1978 Production Cost Estimates - Fluorine ReooverY Prolect
A.  onu  Produotio and12t 90% Ca aity Otiation
3,450    A1F3  9d ,290       active sila
B*. Production Costa (in constant 1975 RoAeea)                   Financial Coats                Economic
1. Variable Cost                        OnUits/ton AP1 FsE B5t/tn MI3    Costs. Rs/ton AF
Exchangn    Carrenc
a: Aluminum  `rdroxide%/               1.17 tons      1,200         1,404.0      912.6          91.47
b.  Ime                                0.07 tons         150           10.5          -           9.4
c.  Poer                               0.33 MWHl         150           49.5       25.0          22.0
d.  Fuel Oil (fuel)                    0.11 tons         880           96.8       47.3           5.O
e.  Bags                                 20 piee           4.5         90.0       22.5          54.0
f. Other Variable Cosat                   -                 -         127.0         -          114.3
g. Lesst i. Credit for by-prodact
Silica                 0.37 tons       1,000.0        (370.0)        -        (333.0)
ii. Reduction in effluent
tFeat4oaet cost           -                 -        (100.0)         _          29
Total Variatle Cost                               1,i307d    1,007.4        (125)
2. Fixed Costa sR  millionper                                                                   C
FinacialCost   Banos  Costs
Foreign     Local
Bochango   C2ocr-
a.  Salaries, Wages and Overhead                                        0.7         -             . 7
b.  Lnwaence and Taxes (0.5% of Capital Cost)                           0.2          -           0 2
c. Maintenance Expanses (3% of Capital Cost)                            1.3        0.5          o.6
d. Depreciation (1/12 of Capital Cost)                                  36
Total Fixed Cost                                              5.         1B=5
3. Avorage Production Costs                                         Financial Costs   Boonomic Costs
F.c.UFWaepg7-9 Loa   urot
a. Rs/ton of AIP                                                    2,989.0      1,152.3       307.9
b. Rs rillion/year                                                     10.3          4.0         1.0
C. E.Factory Pric                                                       Financial Costs  Economic Costv
Rs/ton AI7 00
a/ Assaoad costs (in 1975 constant Repees)
Econcaic
Financial    F.r.ZxcF0jReLocal Currnc
1. Naphtha  Rs/tonRe/to                       0re7
2.  PhoophaIhe Rock, Rs/to.    625
Financial            Ecwonnin
For.xchar Local Curroency
3.  Sulphur, P.s/ton           600           523           77
4. Mriat. of Potash (60%
K20), Rs/ton              780           702           78
5. Fuol Oil (for fuel),
Rs/ton                     880           430           45
b/  Including duty on self-gsneratsd power of Rs 10/MdR or Rs 4.8/ton of NPX.
/  Aluminum hydroxido CIF est is estimated at $800/ton and local charge  re $10/ton (econozic price of say
RB  1004/ton).
d/ Aluninwu Fluoride CIF oost is estimated at $630/ton plus $10/ton for local charges (ecoonoic price of say
Rs 5,000/ton).
Industrial Projects Department
No-eober 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
COROMANDEL FERTILIZER LIMITED - FINANCIAL COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS OF CAPTIVE POWER PROJECT
(in million constant 1975 Rs)
B.  incrementalb Cope!
Benefits for Base Pro-
A.   Costs/Benefits of Incremental Production (29.500 TPY of NPK)                                                               duction  (325,400 TPY NPK)
Capital      Naphtha & Fuel        Other Raw              Coal         Other        Sales Value            Net             Coal         Fuel Oil        Net
Calendar Year       Costsa/       Oil Costs             Material Costs         Costs        Costsb/    of Outputf/             Benefits         Costs        Savings         Benetits        Net Cost/Benefits
(A)                                          (B)                 (A+B)
1  (1975)           (30)                -                              -         _         _                                     (3.c)          -               -               -                   (3.1)
2                  (15.1)                                                                                                       (_5.1) -  -    -                 (25l . )
3                   (3°)                                                                                                         (3.-)          -               -                -                  (3.)
4  (1978)d/          -                8.4                    24.5             1.9         5.4              66.4                  Z6.2         2.6              8.2             5.6                 31.8
5                    -                 8.4                  24.5              1.9         5.4              66.4                  26.2         2.6              8.2             5.6                 31.8
6                    -                8.4                   24.5              1.9         5.4             66.4                   26.2         2.6              8.2             5.6                  31.8
7                    -                8.4                    24.5             1.9         5.4              66.4                  26.2         2.6              8.2             5.6                 31.8
8                    -                8.4                   24.5              1.9         5.4              66.4                  26.2         2.6              8.2             5.6                  31.8
9                    -                8.4                   24.5              1.9         5.4              66.4                 26.2          2.6              8.2             5.6                  31.8
t0                    -                8.4                   24.5              1.9         5.4              66.4                 26.2          2.6              8.2             5.6                 31.8
11                    -                8.4                    24.5             1.9         5.4              66.4                  26.2         2.6              8.2             5.6                 31.8
12                    -                8.4                   24.5              1.9         5.4              66.4                  26.2         2.6              8.2             5.6                 31.8
13                    -                8.4                    24.5             1.9         5.4              66.4                  26.2         2.6              8.2             5.6                  31.8
14                    -                8.4                    24.5             1.9         5.4             66.4                   26.2         2.6              8.2             5.6                 31.8
15                    -                8.4                    24.5             1.9         5.4              66.4                 26.2          2.6              8.2             5.6                 31.8
Financial Rate of Return before Taxes    BG,.
a/  Based on disbursements (in millions of current rupees) of Rs  3, 17 and 3.7   million during 1975, 1976 and 1977 respectively, deflated to constant 1975 rupees.
b/ Excluding depreciation.
c/  At an average ex-factory price of Rs 2250 in constant 1975 rupees (Rs 2690 in current terms).
d/  Project benefits start in 1978.                                                                                                                                                                           ;5|
z.-j
Industrial Projects Department
Noavep,ber 137'



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
Coromandel Fertilizer Limited-Economic Cost and Benefit Streams of Captive Power Project
(in Millions of Constant 1975 Rupees)
B. Incremental Cost/
Benefits for Base Pro-
A.  Costs/Benefits of Incremental Production (29X500 TPY of NPK)                                      duction (325.400 TPY NPK)
Capital   Naphtha & Fuel. Other Raw             Coal    Other   Economic Value  Net              Coal    Fuel Oil   Net
Calendar Year   Costs at  Oil Costs             Material Costs  Costs   Costs   of Outputb             Benefits   Costs   Savings         Benefits    Net Cost/Benefits
(A)                                (B)              (A+B)
1 (1975)           (3.0)            -                 -             -        -             -              (3.0)       -         -                              (3.0)
2                 (13.1)                                                                                 (13-3)       -         _                             (13-1)
3                  (3-0)            -                  -            -        -                            (3-.0)      -         -                              (3.0)
4 (1978)'/           -             7.0              24.5           1.8      4.5          59.8             22.0       2.5       4.4          1.9                23.9
5                    -             7.0              24.5           1.8      4.5          59.8             22.0       2.5       4.4          1.9                23.9
6                    -             7.0              24.5           1.8      4.5          59.8             22.0       2.5       4.4          1.9                23.9
7                    -             7.0              24.5           1.8      4.5          59.8             22.0       2.5       4.4          1.9                23.9
8                    -             7.0              24.5           1.8      4.5          59.8             22.0       2.5       4.4          1.9                23.9
9                    -             7.0              24.5           1.8      4.5          59.8             22.0       2.5       4.4          1.9                23.9
10                    -             7.0              24.5           1.8      4.5          59.8             22.0       2.5       4.4          1.9                23.9
11                    -             7.0              24,5           1.8      4.5          59.8             22.0       2.5       4.4          1.9                23.9
12                    -             7.0              24.5           1.8      4.5          59.8             22.0       2.5       4.4          1.9                23.9
13                    -             7.0              24.5           1.8      4.5          59.8             22.0       2.5       4.4          1.9                23.9
14                    -             7.0              24.5           1.8      4.5          59.8             22.0       2.5       4.4          1.9                23.9
15                    -             7.0              24.5           1.8      4.5          59.8             22.0       2.5       4.4          1.9                23.9
Economic Rate of Return = 70C
a/  Based on disbursements (in millions of current rupees) of Rs 3, 1ll.7(excluding duties of Rs 2.3) and 3.7  million during 1975, 1976 and 1977 respectively,
deflated to constant 1975 rupees.
b/  Based on a CIF price of $250/ton of NPK equivalent to 24-30-4 plus $10/ton for local handling.
c/  Project is completed end of 1977 and full benefits start 1978.
Industrial Projects Department
Noveriruer 1C75a



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
Coromandel Fertilizer Limited - Financial Cost and Benefit Streams of Fluorine Recovery Project
(in Millions of Constant 1975 Rupees)
Financial Cost Streams (before taxes)                            Financial Benefit Streams
Credit for Silica
Capita4      Aluminum Hy-        Other Pro du-                & Reduction in            Ex-Factory             Net Benefit
Qal3niar Y-ar           Costs-'      droxide Costs       tion Costs-W                 Treatment Cost            Sales of Ontrput          Stream.
1 (1975)                 (4.0)            --                                                   -                                         (4.0)
2                        (6.7)            _                   _                                                                          (6.7)
3                       (22.0)            _         -                          -                                        -               (22.0)
4 (1978)2./              (3-0)           2.4                 1.8                              0.8                     12.1                5.7
5                                        4 i.                3.5                              1.6                    24.2                17.5
6                          _              4.8                3.5                              1.6                    24.2                17.5
7                          -             14.8                3.5                              1.6                    24.2                17.5
8                          -             4.8                 3.5                              1.6                    24.2                17.5
9                          -             L48                 3.5                              1.6                     24.2               17.5
10                         -             k.8                 3.5                              1.6                    24.2                17.5
11                         -             4.8                 3.5                              1.6                    24.2                17.5
12                         -             4.8                 3.5                              1.6                     24.2               17.5
13                         -              4.8                3.5                              1.6                    24.2                17.5
14                         -              4.8                3.5                              1.6                    24.2                17.5
15                        0.8d/          4.8                 3.5                              1.6                    24.2                17.5
Financial Rate of Return before taxes = 36%
i/  Based on disbursements (in millions of current rupees) of Rs 4.0, 7.5, 26.8 and 4.0 millions during 1975, 1976, 1977 ana i978 respectively
which are deflated to constant 1975 rupees.
b/ Excluding depreciation
#/ Production is assumed to start April 1978 at 60% capacity utilization and 90% during subsequent years.
d/ Recovered working capital of Rs 1.0 million (disbursed in 1978) deflated to constant 1975 rupees.
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                                                      VI
August 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
Coromandel Fertilizer Limited-Economic Cost and Benefit Streams of Fluorine Recovery Pro.iect
Tin Millions of Constant 1975 Rupees)
Economic Cost Streams                                     Economic Benefit Streams
Credit for Silica
Capital      Aluminum Hy-         Other Produc-                & Reduction in            Economic Value          Net Benefit
Calendar Year           Costs         droxide Costs       tion Costs                    Treatment Cost               of Output               Stream
1 (1975)                (4.0)                                                                                                               (4.0)
2                       (6.7)                                                                                                               (6.7)
3                      (18.5)                                                                                                              (16.5)
4 (1978)/               (3.0)              1.6                 1.5                            0.8                      8.6                   3.1
5                         -                3.5                 3.0                            1.5                     17.2                  12.2
6                         -                3.5                 3.0                            1.5                     17.2                  12.2
7                         -                3.5                 3.0                            1.5                     17.2                  12.2
8                         -                 .                  3.0                            1.5                     17,2                  12.2
9                         -                3.q                 3.0                            1.5                     17.2                  12.2
10                        -                3.5                 3.0                            1.5                     17.2                  12.2
11                        _                3.5                 3,0                            1.5                     17.2                  12.2
12                        -                3.5                 3.0                            1.5                     17.2                  12.2
13                        -                3.5                 3.0                            1.5                     17.2                  12.2
14                        -                3.5                 3.0                            1.5                     17.2                  12.2
15                       0.01              3.5                 3.0                            1.5                     17.2                  12,2
Economic Rate of Return = 28%
i The disbursement (in millions of current rupees) are assumed to be as follows: Rs. 4.0, 7.5, 26.8 (including 4.3 for duties) and 4.0 millions
respectively during 1975, 1976, 1977 and 1978 which are deflated to constant 1975 rupees.
/ Production starts April 1978 at 60% output and 90% during subsequent years.
1 Recovered working capital of Rs. 1.0 million (disbursed in 1978) deflated to constant 1975 rupees.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANNEX 5-9
INDIA - FERTIILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
ZUARI - PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND ANALYSIS
Urea Anti-Pollution Project
1.        The project is designed to reduce the nitrogenous (dilute ammonia
and urea) contaminants to less than 50 PPM in the effluents of the urea plant.
The procedure will involve recycling the effluents to a recovery unit before
discharge. The present level of pollutants violate both local (State) as well
as national standards and must be rectified. The project is justified as the
least cost solution to the pollution problem. The technical scope of the anti-
pollution project has yet to be precisely defined and the project cost estimate
below is a preliminary estimate by the appraisal mission.
Capital Cost Estimate
in Rs Million -----   ---- in US$ Million ----
Foreign    Local             Foreign    Local
Exchange  Currency  Total   Exchange  Currency  Total
Equipment and Spares (CIF)            8.6        o.8       9.4      1.1        0.1       1.2
Duties                                  -        2.3        2.3      -        0.3        0.3
Licenses and Engineering              1.6         -        1.6      0.2        -         0.2
Civil Works, Erection, Supervision
and Commissioning                   1.6,       0.8        2.h     0.2       0.1        0.3
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)              11.8       3.9       17T7     1.5       °.5        2.0
Physical Contingency (10%)            1.6        0.8       2.4      0.2       0.1        0.3
Price Contingency (18,)               2.3        0.8       3.1      0.3       0.1        o.h
Total Project Cost                    15.7       5-5       21.2     2.0        0.7       27
Interest during Construction          -          2.3        2.3      -         0.3       0.3
Total Financing Required             15?l/       7.8       23.5     2.0       1.0        3.0
!/  Contains US$0.4 (Rs 3.1) million in indirect foreign exchange.
II.  Ammonia Plant Debottlenecking Project
A.   Capital Cost Estimate
2.        Toyo (Japan), the ammonia plant engineering contractor, is studying
the technical scope of the debottlenecking project,  Zuari and the  appraisal
miss-ior! has prepared a cost e~stimate for the projeAt as follows:



Arrex 
Page 2
a11MONTLk DEBOTTLME2CKIDIG PROJECT
Capital Cost Estirates
In Rs. hillion                 In Rs. Yillion
Foreign   Local                Foreign   Local
Currency  Currency  Total      Exchange  Currency  Total
Eqiipment & Spares (CIF)       21.1       3.0       25.0        2.7          i.      3.2
Duties                                     8 .6       8.6         -        1.1       1.1
Li,censes & Engineering          1.6         -        1.6       0.2         -        0.2
Civil Works. Erection,           1.6          l         7        0.2       0.L       0.6
Supervision                                                    - .1  4.7  2  Q0
Base Cost Estimate              I24T   ~     73.                3.120                  1
Physical Contingency (10%)       2.3       1.6        3.9       0.3        0.2       0 5
Price Contingency (18%)         -4.7       317.8                0.6        o.11      1.0
Installed Cost                  31.3      20.3  ,         2.0                       7
Interest during Construction      -        4.7         .7                  o.6       o.6
a//
Project Cost                    31.3      25.0       56.3       L.0-       3.2       7.2
a,/ Includes uS$o.5 (Rs.3.9) million in indirect foreign exchange.
B.   Benefits
3.        The ammonia plant capacity is 630 TPD of ammonia (171,000 TPY of N).
At 90A capacity utilization, annual output is 153,900 TPY of N. The proposed
project will increase production by about 10%, or 15,400 TPY of N, and satisfy
the ammonia requirements of the NPK facilities. The NPK plant has been idle
for about one year due to a shortage of phosphoric acid but is now being brought
on stream as phosphoric acid is becoming available. The analysis of the project
will assume that the ammonia will be converted into 33,500 TPY of urea (that is,
without the project, the NPK facility will receive all the ammonia it needs but
the urea unit will not). Thus, the cost/benefits will be evaluated in terms of
the additional urea production.
C.   Raw Material Requirements
4.        Urea production at Zuari consumes about 0.6 tons of naphtha per ton
cf urea.  The incremental output of 15,400 TPY N (33,500 TPY urea) will require
20,100 TPY of naphtha.
5.        Fuel oil consumption for fuel is about 0.25 tons fuel oil/ton of
urea, or about 8,400 TPY of fuel oil.
D.   Implementation Period
6.        The project's technical scope will be defined by January 1976 and
implementation will take another 24 months. The project is expected to be
completed by January 1978.
Industrial Projects Department
Noveriber 1975



ANNEX 5-9
Table 1
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
Zuari - Production Cost Estimates
(in constant 1975 rupees)
I.   Incremental Output (Starting 1978)  33,500 TPY urea
II.   Production Cost Estimates
A. Variable Costs
Rs/ton of Urea
Units/ton        Financial        Economic Costs
Item                               cf Urea          Costs         Foreign      £ Local
Exchange    Currency
iNaphtha                              0.6            507             l120         27
Fuel Oil (fuel)                       0.25           220             108          11
Bags                              4.5 pieces          90              22          55
Catalysts & Chemicals                  -              20              10           8
Utilities & Other Expenses             -              3°              15          12
Total variable costs, Rs/ton               .     7             75          113
B. Incremental Fixed Costs
Rs Million/Year
Financial           Economic
Cost          Foreign      Local
Exchange    Currenc
Insurance & Taxes (0.5% of capital costs)            0.1              _ ca1g
Depreciation (1/12 of capital costs)                 4.7
Maintenance Expenses (2% of capita:L costs)          0.5             0.2          0.2
Others                                               0.1              -           0.1
Total Fixed Costs, Rs Million/year            5.h              0.2          0.
C. Average Production Costs
a.  Rs/ton of urea                          1028              581          125
b.  Rs million/year                            3h.4            19.5          .2
III.   Value of Incremental Output,/
a.  Rs/ton of urea                               1150            1445           75
b.  Rs million/year                                38.5            48.h          2.5
Economic Cost
a!  The following prices are used:                     Financial      Foreign      Local
Cost          Exchange    Currency
Naphtha, Rs/ton (delivered)                       i     -        700           L5
Fuel oil, Rs/ton (delivered)                       880            330          45
Urea, Rs/ton                                      1150         1U5            75
NOTE- Urea economic price is based on a CIF price of US$185/ton plus about US$10/ton for
local handling.
Industrial Projects Department
November 2975



ANNEX 5-9
Table 2
INDIA - FERTILIZEXR INDUSTHR CREDIT
ZUARI AGRO - coST AND BENiFIT STREAMS FOR
RATE OF RETUUN  ClCUlATION
(I-n-illion Constant 1975 Rs)
Financial Cost and Benefit Streama!/'          Economic Costs and Benefit Streams
Year
Capital     Operating    Value of   Net        Capital  Operatinf Value of    Net
Costs  b    Costs    2/  Output   Benefit   Costs  '  Cots C    Output   Benefit
1 (1975)      3.0         -              -       (3 0)       3.0         -         -      (3.0)
2            28.7         -              -       p2.7)    21.1           -         -    (2j.1)
3            13.4         -              -      (13.Y)      13.l         -         -    (13A4)
4 (1978)        -       29.7           38.5        8.8        -       23.7        50.9   27.2
5               -       29.7           38.5        8.8        -       23.7        50.9   27.2
6               -       29.7           38.5        8.8        -       23.7        50.9   27.2
7               -       29.7           38.5        8.8        -       23.7        50.9   27.2
8               -       29.7           38.5        8.8        -       23.7        50.9   27.2
9              -        29.7           38.5        8.8        -       23.7        50.9   27.2
10               -       29.7           38.5        8.8        -       23.7        50.9   27.2
11               -       29.7           38.5        8.8        -       23.7        50.9   27.2
12               -       29.7           38.5        8,8        -       23.7        50.9   27.2
13               -       29.7           38.5        8.8        -       23.7        50.9   27.2
l1               -       29.7           38.5        8.8        -       23.7        50.9   27.2
15               -       29.7           38.5        8.8        -       23.7        50.9.  27.2
Financial Rate of Return =                Economic Rate of Return = 52%
a/ Before income taxes.
YBased or a disburseiaent sAeju1e 4r   Lons of surrent rupees ir.udirug interest snd
1uties) of Rs.3.3  in -c,5, lis. 3L in 1976 anid is.19.3 ir 1977, ierlate(i to constant
runies.  Duties arld interest have beer excluded 2rom the economnic cost.
c/ Excluding depreciation changes.
Industrial rro-ects Dep, tdimern
Ncveriber 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT                        AWNEX 6-1
Cost Estimates by Com)any/Sub-Project
(US$ Millions)
Costs
Company         Sub-Pro.iect                                       Foreign    Local
Exchange   Currency    Total
I. Public Sector
A. FCI
Boiler/Power(25MKW) Set at Gorakhpur            10.8         12.7       23.5
Boiler/Power(12NW) Set at Durgapur               8.7         12.0       20.7
170 TPH Boiler at Trorbay                        9.5          3Ah        12.9
Ammonia Tankwagons/Storage                       9.1         ll.h       20.5
Pollution Control & Testing Equipment            1.4          -          1.L,
FCI Sub-Total                                39.5         39.5       79.0
B.  Neyveli
Lignite         Neyveli Feedstock Conversion                     7.5         12.0       19.5
Corp.
C.  Hindustan
Steel          Rourkela Feedsto^k Conversion                     9.0         17.1       26.1
Corp.
Public-Sector: Sub-Total                         0_68.6                123.6
II.  Joint Sector
D. GSFC            Purge Gas Recove-ry                               h.5          6.8       11.3
Fluorine Recovery,/Cryolite Plant                1.0          1.7         2.7
Phosphoric Acid Plant Debottlenecking            2.2          h.i         6.6
GSFC Sub-Total                                7.7         12.9       20.6
E.  HPCL           Refinery Debottlenecking                          7.2         18.7       25.9
F.  madras         Urea Plant Debottlenecking                        0.7          0.5        1.2
Amonia Procesa Jontrol Computer                  0.2          0.3        0.5
.FL Sub-Total                                 0.9          0.8        1.7
G. SPIC             Fluorine Recovery/Cryolite Plant                 1.0          1.7        2.7
Soda Ash/Ammonium Chloride Plant                 9.9         33.6        t3 .5
SPIC Sub-Total                               10.9        35.3        h6.2
Joint Sector: Sub-Total                         26.7         67.7       9h.1,
III. Private Sector
H.  Coromandel      Boiler/Power(5MW) Set                            e.8         2.2         3.0
Fluorine Recover.r/Aluminum Fluoride Plant       2.1          3.1        5.5
Coromandel Sub-Total                          3.2         5.3         8.5
I.  Zuari Agro     Ammonia Plant Debottlenecking                     l.o          3.2        7.2
Urea Plant Pollu';ion Control                    2.0          1,0        3.0
Zuari Sub-Total                               6.0          L.2       10.2
Private Sector:  Sub-Total                       9.2          9.5        18.7
Total for Sub-Projects                                             91.9        1L5.8       237.7
Technical Assistance                             0.5          05          1.0
Total Project Cost                                                 92.h       1h6.3       238 .7
Industrial Projects Departmenit
Nover.ber 1975



n'uix 6-2
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE BY TYPE OF SUB-PROJECT
in Rs Million                  in US$ Million
Foreign    Local               Foreign    Local
Exchange   Currency  Total    Exchange   Currency    Total    %
1. Capacity Expansion &
Process Efficiency
Improvement (10)        368         697      1065      l57.1        89.3     136.4   57
2. Internal Power
Generation &
Utilities (4)           232         236       468      29.8         30.3      60.1   25
3. Anti-Pollution (4)       50          58       108       6.4          7.5      13.9    6
4. Refinery Expansion (1)  56          1h6       202       7.2         18.7      25.   11
5. Miscellaneous (3-L/ j5                         19       1.9          0.5       2.-    1
Total Project Cost   721t/      111       1562      92.LL/      316.3     238.7  100
a/  Includes technical assistance (US$1.0 million).
b/  Includes Rs 1h8 (US$19) million of indirect foreign exchange.
Industrial Projects Department
lNoveriber 1975



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
CALCULATION OF PRICE ESCALATION FACTORY/
A. Annual Price Inflation (from Annex 7-1)
Calendar Year                       International Prices                         Domestic Prices
1975                                    12%                                       15%
1976                                    10                                        10
1977                                     8                                         8
1978                                     8                                         8
B. Average Commitment as Percent of Project Cost
% Committed
Calendar Year                         Foreign Exchange                            Local Currency
1975                                     5                                        10
1976                                     35                                       35
197Y                                   lhO                                        35
1978                                    20                                        20
Total              iOCq                                     100%
C. Calculation of Price Escalation
Foreign Exchange                                       Local Currency
Compounded %       Fraction    Weighted                Compounded %        Fraction       Weighted
Year    Inflation Factor2/  Committed  Escalation %             Inflation Factor2/  Committed    Escalation
1975            0               0005          0                         0               0.10           0
1976           I1              0°35           3.8                      12               0.35           4.2
1977           21               0.40          8.4                      22               0.35           7.7
1978           31               0.20          6.2                      32               0.20         6_4
Total                     1.00        18. %                                       100          18.3%
Say:                                 18%                                                       18%
1/ The price inflation factor calculated here is used in all project components unless
estimated otherwise for a specific project. The factor of 18" is applied to both the base cost
estimate (BCE) and the physical contingencies.
2/ From mid-1975 to mid-year.
Industrial Projects Department
July 1975



ANNEX 6-4
INDIA: FERTILIZE INDUSTRY CREDIT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOEPYT BANK OF INDIA (IDBI)I/
1.        The Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) was established
in 196h as a subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the Central Bank.
However, as part of a Bill passed by Parliament in August 1975, the owner-
ship of IDBI will be transferred from RBI to GOI probably at the beginning
of 1976. IDBI is now the largest single institutional source of industrial
finance, accounting for approximately 5% of the annual total industrial
investment in India. It acts as the apex institution for all other financial
intermediaries and is a strong institution in its own right. It has its
head office in Bombay and its three regional offices are located at New
Delhi, Calcutta and Madras.
Trends in Operation
2.        IDBI's activities include granting direct loans, rediscounting
commercial bills, the refinancing of loans made by the State Finance
Corporations (SFCs) and commercial banks, providing export finance, under-
writing, equity investment and guarantee operations. As of June 30, 1975,
the total effective financial assistance sanctioned by IDBI excluding
guarantees was Rs 13.08 billion (US$1.68 billion). of which Rs 6.96 billion
(US$0.89 billion) -- approximately 53% of the total -- was in the form of
refinancing of industrial loans and discounting of bills. Thus, re-
financing of industrial loans and discounting of bills constitute a major
part of IDBI's operations.
3.        The IDBI operation has expanded rapidly in recent years, with
the total annual assistance sanctioned reaching Rs 3,51h million (US$h450l
million) in 1974/75 compared to Rs 1,331 million (US$171 million) in
1970/71. Direct loans accounted for Rs 672 million (US$86.6 million),
i.e. about 19% of the total assistance approved in 197h/75 as shown
below:
1/ Detailed analysis of IDBI is in Annex 6 of the appraisal report: "India
Appraisal of the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Ltd." (Report No 637a-IN), March lb, 1975. Further, IDBI was recently
appraised by the South Asia Projects Department.



ANNEX 6-4
Page 2
IBDI Assistance Approved in 197h/75
Rs Million     US$ Million      % of Total
1.  Direct Loans                   672.0           86.6            19.1
2. Underwriting & Direct
Subscription to Shares       179.0           23.0             5.0
3. Foreign Lines of Credit
(to Bangladesh)               80.0           10.3             2.2
h. Refinancing of Loans and
Discounting of Bills       2,201.0          283.3            62.6
5.  Export Credits                 382.0           h9.2            10.9
Total                    3,51.0          L50o.            100
4.        IDBI's total assets as of June 30, 197h were Rs h.8 billion, its
debt/equity ratio 4.8:1, and its profitability 1.7h% on average total
assets. Its financial position has been projected to remain satisfactory
by the recent appraisal mission.
Board of Directors
5.        IDBI's 18-member Board Df Directors, which is identical with
RBI'sl/ continues to be breadly representative of business, professional
and Government circles. Nine directors including the Chairmar and the
Vice-Chairman constitute the Executive Committee which is the highest
decision-making body for IDBI's day-to-day operations, including all
investment decisions (except for :Loans of smaller amounts which are
approved at the management level)
Management and Staff
6.        Mr. Chari continues to be the Vice-Chairman of IDBI and he is
scheduled to retire in November. Under him are Messrs. C0S. Venkat Rao
and Y.S. Kedare, the General Manager and the Joint General Manager,
respectively. Mr. Venkat Rao has been in the post since September 1972.
The total staff strength has increased significantly in recent years.
The new staff is mostly recruited from privalte-sector institutions.
IDBI continues to be active in training its staff in programs organized
by various domestic and foreign institutions, including the Bankers'
Training College, Bombay, and the UN Asian Institute for Economic
Development and Planning, Bangkok.
1/ This will, however, change as a result of the recent passage of a
Bill by Parliament.



ANNEX 6-4
Page 3
Lending Policies and Practices
7.        Interest rates:  Following an increase in the Bank Rate in July
1971 (from 7% to 9% per annum), IDBI's lending rates were revised upward.
The new rates are shown in Table 1.
8.        Assistance to backward areas:  IDBI has since 1970 been providing
its direct and indirect assistance to projects located in the backward
districts on concessionary terms. Some modifications in IDBI's lending
policies to these projects took place during 1972/73. With respect to its
direct assistance, the previous limit on the total cost of projects (up to
Rs 30 million) which qualify for concessionary assistance was removed, and
a new limit was set on the aggregate amount of assistance provided by all
national term-lending institutions (up to Rs 20 million for loans and Rs 10
million for underwritings), irrespective of the project cost. Likewise,
with respect to refinance, the eligibility criterion changed from the
project cost to the loan amount. Now, loans up to Rs 3 million each can
benefit from IDBI's concessionary refinance, provided the net worth of the
enterprise does not exceed Rs 10 million.
Characteristics of Portfolio
9.        Industrial distribution:  IDBITs direct assistance has been
allocated mainly to modern types of large industries, including fertilizers,
iron and steel, petro- and heavy-chemicals, and paper and paper products.
More than one-third of India's total capacity for fertilizer production
was created with IDBI assistance, and so was about 40% of its special steels
and steel rolls production capacity. The distribution of IDBI refinance
shows a relatively heavy concentration on traditional lines of industries
such as light chemicals, food manufacturing, textiles, and road transport,
but some new types of industries, including machine manufacturing and metal
products are also taking on an increasing importance. The machinery sold
under the IDBI rediscounting scheme went mostly to the textile and machine
manufacturing industries.
10.       Geographical distribution:  Reflecting the imbalances of in-
dustrialization among States, IDBI's assistance has been generally con-
centrated on several relatively industrialized States such as Gujarat,
Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. However, the proportion of
direct assistance given to projects in the industrially backward dis-
tricts (including those in the relatively advanced States) has somewhat
increased recently.
11.       Size of assistance and projects:  A breakdown by size of direct
loans and investments shows that about 70% by amount of total approvals were
for Rs 10 million or more each, whereas about 2% were far below Rs 1 million
each. Sector-wise, about four-fifths by amount of total approvals went to
the large-scale sector, and the rest to the medium-scale sector. This is
a logical consequence of IDBI's primary emphasis on modern and relatively
capital intensive projects. By contrast, its refinancing loans have
mainly financed smaller projects.



ANNEX 6-4
Page 
12.       Loan maturity:  Of total direct loan approvals, the largest
number had maturities between nine and 12 years. The maturity pattern
of IDBI refinance shows that three-fourths of loans (by number) had re-
payment periods below 10 years.
13.       Nature of pro.jects:  Both IDBI's direct assistance and refinance
loans have financed mainly new projects as opposed to expansion or modern-
ization of existing projects.
14.       Type of clients:  An overwhelming majority of the loan recipients
belong either to the private sector or the joint sector; public sector
accounts for less than 10% of the total loans. IDBI's refinance has all
been given to private sector companies. The modest size of IDBI's public-
sector financing does not reflect its reluctance to provide such financing,
but rather indicates the small demand to-date from public-sector enter-
prises though this is expected tc, change significantly over the next few
years.
Pronotional Activities
15.       IDBI's promotional activities have been intensified since 1970
when IDBI started taking the initi-ative in conducting a series of industrial
surveys of less developed States and Union Territories, coordinating the
activities of State-level financial institutions, and strengthening the
mechanisms of technical assistance. IDBI has recently further stepped up
its activities in these areas.
16.       Industrial surveys:  Surveys covering almost all States and Union
Territories classified by the Government as industrially backward were
completed, and reports were published. These surveys were carried out by
joint-institutional study teams comprising officials of IDBI, RBI, In-
dustrial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI) and Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India (:CICI) to identify industrial potentials
and specific project ideas in these States. -n addition, IDBI has extended
assistance to similar surveys of backward areas in the relatively developed
States, such as Kerala, Karnataka and West Bengal, by having its officials
participate in such surveys or by bearing the survey cost.
17.       Inter-Institutional Groups (IIGs) at State level:  Since July
1972, eight more IlGs have been fcrmed, bringing the total number of such
groups to lh. Consisting of representatives of SFCs, State Industrial
Development Corporation (SIDCs), lead banks, State Governments, and the
All-India term-lending institutions, IIGs have met periodically to dis-
cuss issues arising from project identification and implementation.
Some of the topics discussed at recent IhG meetings in various States
include: (a) organizing an entrepreneurial training program (Kerala,
Andhra Pradesh, Assain, Bihar); (b) disseminating information on identi-
fied projects to attract prospective entrepreneurs (Madhya Pradesh,
Bihar, Orissa); and (c) following -p on industrial licenses issued by
the Government (Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh).



ANNEX 6-4
Page 5
18.       Technical assistance:  In view of the difficulty for every State-
level institution to be equipped with adequate technical capabilities,
IDBI has been encouraging the establishment of jointly-sponsored Technical
Consultancy Service Centers (TCSCs) which conduct technical appraisals for
financial institutions as well as prepare project feasibility reports for
prospective entrepreneurs. To-date, three Centers have been established
in Assam, Kerala and Bihar.
Involvement In Fertilizer Industry
19.       Since its inception in 196h, IDBI has sanctioned financial
assistance of about Rs 860 million to 11 fertilizer projects, involving
a total cost of Rs 4.9 billion to increase installed capacity in India
by 1.4 million nutrient tons to h.8 million nutrient tons (Tables 2 and 3).
All the major fertilizer projects set up in the private sector since the
inception of IDBI have been financed by it. IDBI acts as the lead
financial institution when appraising fertilizer projects.
20.       Fertilizer projects financed by IDBI are appraised by IDBI's
Projects Department which is staffed with h1 professionals. The staff
is generally of good quality and over the years has acquired the expertise
for appraising the technical and financial aspects of fertilizer projects.
Some of the senior officers have also acquired management-level experience
as nominees of IDBI on the Boards of assisted fertilizer companies. Project
supervision is undertaken by IDBI's Follow-Up Department, which is staffed
with 22 professionals, who are also assisted by engineers in the Projects
Department and by staff in the Regional Offices.  Of the 11 fertilizer
projects financed by IDBI, eight were completed within the original
schedule, and the rest were completed with less than one-year delay.
Data for five of these companies, which were in operation during 197h,
showed for that year an average return on total capital employed I/ of 16%
and a net return of after tax of 14% on net worth. Only two of the 11
companies were in arrears with IDBI for an amount of Rs 5.9 million.  In
terms of its experience and past performance, IDBI appears qualified to
administer part of the proposed credit.
1/ Earnings before interest and tax/net worth plus long-term debt.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975.



.ivki)A: rrWT-ILILh6  VNiJU6TiY CkEDITS
IDBI   Interest Rate Structure
Rates prevailing before 27th July 1971      Revised Rates effective from
27th July_1974
1.  Direct assistance to industrial         % p.a.                                       % p.a.
concerns (other than for exPorts)
(a)  Normal rate:  for Rupee loans      9.00                                        10.25
- for foreign exchange loans      9.25                                         10.50
(b) - to units in the specified
backward districts               7.50                                         8.50
2. Refinance
(a)  Normal rate                        7.00  - Ceiling on the rate to be            8.50  - Ceiling on the rate
charged by the financial                     to be charged by the
institutions at 10.50 per                    financial institutions
cent.                                        at 12 per cent.
(b)  Special rate for small-            5.00  - For assistance up to        )        7.00  - Ceiling on the rate
scale industrial units                    Rs 25,000 - Provided the   )                  to be charged by the
covered under the CGS                     financial institution does )                  financial institution
not charge more than 8.50                    at 10.50 per cent.
per cent.                   )
5.50  - On the assistance in excess)
of Rs 25,000 - provided the)
financial institution does )
not charge more than 9 per )
cent.                       )
(c)  Special rate for units in          h.00  - Provided the financial               5.50  - Ceiling on the rate
the specified backward                    institution does not                          to be charged by the
districts                                 charge more than 9 per cent                   financial institution
Under IDA line of credit (Foreign                                                                 at 9.00 per cent.
currency component)
(a)  To small-scale industries          6.50  - Provided the financial               8.00  - Provided the financial
covered under GGS, technician              institution does not                          institution does not
entrepreneur scheme and units              charge more than 9 per                        charge more than 10.50
in specified backward districts            cent                                          per cent.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



INDIA: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
Statement showing details of assistance sanctioned to fertilizer projects
(Position as of November 30, 1974)                                                    (Rs in millions)
Loans                    Debentures                        Equity                                     Preference
Sr.  Name of the         Sanc-   Disbur- Repaid  Out-   Sanc- Subs- Re-  Out-   Sanc-  Devol- Paid-  Sales  Out-               Sanc-  Devol- Paid-  Sales  Out-
No.  Company             tioned   sed              stand- tion-  cri- paid stand- tioned ved    up                  standing  tioned ved    up                standing
ing    ed      bed        ing
(1)     (2)               (3)      (4)     (5)      (6)    (7)  (8)   (9)  (10)    (11)  (12)   (13)   (14)    (15)             (16)  (17)   (18)       (19)    (20)
l.West India Chemicals   1.5        -       -        -       -     -    -      -      0.4    0.4    0.4       -      0.4         0.8   0.7    0.7        -       0.7
(60)                                                     (13.3)                                      (53.3)
2.GSFC                   180.0   180.0  108.8       71.2    -      -    -       -    19.7   19.3   19.3    4.6   14.7            7.1   6.2    6.2    6.2           -
(72)                                                     (21.7)                                      (23.7)
3.E.I.D. Parry            12.0    12.0    6.8        5.2    -      -    -       -      -       -       -      -       -           _      _       _       _         _
(100)
4.Coromandel Fertili-   70.0    70.0   13.1         56.9    -      -    -       -     2.5      -       -      -       -           -      _       -       _         _
zers                   (17.7)                                                      (3)
5.Indian Explosives       46.5    46.5    4.8       41.7    -      -    -       -      -       -       -      -       -           -      -       -       _         _
Ltd.                   (24.5)
6.D.C.M.                  12.5    12.5   12.4        0.1    -      -    -      -       -       -       -      -       -           -      -       -       _         -
(41.6)
7.Orissa Fertilisers       3.0      2.9     -        2.9    -      -    -      -      0.9    0.9    0.9       -      0.9          -      -       -       -         -
(62.5)                                                    (39.1)
8.Zuary Agro                -        -      -         -      -     -    -      -      5.0    0.3    0.3       -      0.3        24.2  22.1   22.1   22.1         2.1
(4)                                       (58.7)
9.IFFCO                  110.0   105.0      -      105.0    -      -    -      -       -       -       -      -       -           -      -       -       -         -
(17)
1O.SPIC                  150.0   125.2      -      113.7    -      -    -      -    42.4   11.4   11.2        -    11.2          1.2   1.1    1.1        -       1.1
(23.9)                                                     (20.8)
ll.Mangalore Chemicals 135.8    53.5        -       53.5    -      -    -      -    33.8   20.9   20.9        -    20.9           -      -       -       -         -
(29.0)                                                    (22.5)
Total        721.3   607.6  145.9    450.2    -        -    -      -   104.7   53.2   53.2    4.6   48.4            33.3  30.1   30.1   28.3        23.3
Note:  Figures in brackets in col. (3) indicate percentage of IDBI's loan
assistance to the total loan amount in the projects.
Similarly for cols. (11) and (16).
Source: IDBI
Industrial Projects Department                                          
August 1975
,r



INDIA - FERTILIZER IlNDUSTRY CREDIT
IDBI - STATEMENT SHOWING DETAILS OF FERTILIZER PROJECTS ASSISTED
(Position as on November 30, 1974)
Production
capacity                                      Means of financing
in        Project                         Deben-                          Deferred
Company Name                         Product                  millions        cost      Equity Preference  ture          Loan   Deposits   credits
(Rs. in iillion)
1.  Vest India Chemicals Ltd.                    Sulphuric phosphate                0.1           13.8        3.0      1.5        -         8.7       0.6          -
(installed)
2.  Gujarat State Fertilisers Co. Ltd.          Ammonia                             0.3          410.2       90.0    30.0         -       250.0      10.2        30.0
A. Sulphate                        0.1         (236.3)
P. Phosphate                       0.1
Urea Fertilizer                    0.4
3.  E.I.D. Parry Ltd.                           Ammonium Phosphate                                43.8       12.0       -         -        12.0       0.8        19.0
Ammonium Sulphate                               (23.2)
4.  Coromancel Fertilisers Ltd.                 Ammoniunf Phosphate                              509.8       95.8       -         -       395.4      18.6           -
Urea                                           (325.4)
5.  Indian Explosives Ltd.                      Ammonium Phosphate                  0.3          558.4      166.8       -         -       240.4      77.7           -
Urea                               0.5         (241.8)
6.  Delhi Cloth Mills Co. Ltd.                  Ammonia                             0.1          270.0       22.0      8.0        -        30.0      49.6       160.4
7.  Orissa Fertilisers & Chemicals Ltd.          NPK                                               7.3        2.3      0.2        -         4.8        -           -
8.  Zuari Agro Chemicals Ltd.                   Ammonia                             0.2          477.1      124.3    41.2         -       400.0        -         11.6
(80.6)
9.  Indian Farmers Fertiliser Co-op. Ltd.    Ammonia                                0.3          938.9      277.4       -         -       661.5        -           -
Urea                               0.4         (280.3)
10.  Southern Petro-chemical Industries          Ammonia                             0.4          896.8      204.0    20.0         -       626.8      46.0          -
Corp.                                     Urea                               0.5          (342.9)
NPK                                0.2
11.  Mangalore Chemicals & Fertilisers
Ltd.                                      Ammonia                            0.2          676.2      150.0    35.0         6.8     468.4         -         16.0
Urea                               0.3         (208.4)
4902.3
(1899.3)
Note:  Figures within bracket indicate foreign exchange component.                                                                                                        t
Source: IDBI
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANkE 6-5
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT OF IDA CREDIT
Calendar Year/Quarter          Disbursed during Period          Cumulative Disbursement
(US $ Million)              US $ Million
1976             I-10.5                                          10.5               10
II                         3.1                   13.6               13
III                         3.2                   16.8               16
IV                         4.2                   21.0               20
1977             I                          6.3                  27.3                26
II                         7.3                   3h.6               33
III                        11.6                   46.2               h
IV                        11.6                   57.8               55
1978             I                        13.6                   71.)               68
II                        12.6                   814.0              80
III                        10.5                   9h.5               90
IV                        10.5                  105.0              100
TOTAL                   105.0
l/ Including retroactive financing.
Industrial Projects Department
November 1975.



INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
INFLATION AND PRICE ASSUMPTIONS
I.    INFLATION RATES
Domestic General Price Inflation              International Price and Domestic Equipment Price Inflation
Compounded          Price Deflator                       Compounded          Price Deflator
Annual       Rate, Mid 1975      to Constant             Annual       Rate, Mid-1975       to Constant 1975
Calendar Year           Rate. %       to Mid-Year, %      1975 Rupees             Rate, %      to Mid-Year. %      Rupees or US Dollars
1975                  15              ---                  1.0                 12               ---                    1.00
1976                  10              12.5                 0.89                10               11%                   0.90
1977                   8              22.6                 0.82                 8               21%                    0.83
1978                   8              32.4                 0.76                 8               31%                    0.76
1979                   8              43.0                 0.70                 8               41%                   0.71
International CIF' Prices, $/ton
II.    FERTILIZER PRICES                                   Domestic Ex-factory Prices, Rs/ton                                            U  a/  InteratiBa  C    ________$/ton
_rea (bagged)                           ~~~~~~~P20 5                        Urea (Bagged)         Crec uncn
____________Urea__(Bagged                                                                      Curren    Cw.uLaL4L         Current   Constant
Calendar Year           In Current Rupees   In Constant 1975 Rupees   In Current Rupees   In Constant 1975 Rupees   Dollars   1975 Dollars   Dollars   1975 Dollars
1975                      1100                     1100                   4,800                    4,8-oo                 325           325          610          610
1976                       1240                    1105                   h 800                    4,270                  315           285         485           435
1977                      1355                     1110                   4,800                    3,935                  290           240         490           405
1978                      1510                     1150                   5,000                    3,800                  245           185         515           390
1979                      1645                     1150                   5,430                    3,800                  260           185          550          390
III.    FEEDSTOCK PRICES                                 Ave. Domestic Ex-Storage Prices (Including                                          International CIF Prices, $/ton
Excise Duties and Sales Taxes), Rs/ton                                          NaphthaFeO                   Fuel Oil-/
NaphthaS'                                         Fuel oil_/                      Current   Constant         Current   Constant
Calendar Year           In Current Rupees   In Constant 1975 Rupees   In Current Rupees   In Constant 1975 Rupees   Dollars   1975 Dollars   Dollars   1975 Dollars
1975                      575                      575                      555                      555                   90            90           55           55
1976                      645                      575                      625                      555                  100            90           60           55
1977                     1020                      835                      675                      555                  110            90           65           55
1978                     1100                      835                      730                      555                  120            90           70           55
1979                     1195                      835                      795                      555                  130            90           80           55
a/  Average P90S price  equivalent of phosphate content of SSP and TSP estimated as Rs 4,800/ton of P205 in 1975.   Prices in current terms are assumed to remain the
same through 1977 and from 1978 onwards, stay at Rs 3800/ton in constant terms.
b/  Based on TSP (46% P2O5) fob prices plus  $30/to,l  of TSP for ocean freight. Local charges of $10/ton of TSP are added to the CIF price to get the economic price.
c/  Prices after 1977 (in real terms) are increased to 1.5 times the fuel oil price (on a weight basis) to equalize the production costs of the new fuel oil and the
older Naphtha based plants.
d/  As fuel, fuel oil price is Rs 875/ton (in 1975 rupees).
el  Taken as 115% of crude oil CIF price on a weight basis.
_/  Taken as 70% of crude oil CIF price on a weight basis.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1975



ANNEX 7-2
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
INCREASE IN FERTILIZER OUTPUT DUE TO PROJECT
(in 000 TPY of Nutrients)
Installed Capacity   Increase in Output from
Project Firms                              as of Dec. 1975          Proposed Credit
N-       ~ P205        N            P205
Coromandel  /                              96            132      7.2            8.8
FCI: - Durgapur                           152             -       9.2             _
- Gorakhpur                 _         89_           -       13.8             -
- Trombay -   h                       81            36       9.6            4.8
- Ammonia Transport and Storage       -             -       39.3             _
GSFC                                      257             57     15.3           17.3
Madras                                    203             85     15.2             -
Neyveli                                    75             -      40.7
Rourkela                                  115             -      40.3             -
SPIC S                                    297             54     16.3             -
Zuari                                     171             42     15.4             -
Sub-total:                            1,527            406    222.3           30.9
1/ Includes expansion to be completed by end of 1975 (8,000 TPY of N).
2/ Included in POIP component of Trombay IV Credit.
3/ New factory commissioned in 1975.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1975



ANMNJX 7-3
INDIA - FEHTILIZER INDUSTPY CRED1IT
StuNI4RY FI11ANCILL COSTS AND BE.'*'FITS
In Millions of Constant J9752 Runees
Annual    Annual Net   Annual         'Net
Physical  Operating    Gross Value   Annual
Tyrpe and NMurber of Sub-Pro_jects            Benefits  Cost/sa       of Benefits   Benefit   %
TPY
1.  Capacity Expansion & Process
Efficiency Improvement (10)
(a) Additional Fertilizer                199,800b/)                   562
Nutrient Output                                ) 295                .
(b) Reduction in Raw Material Usage       32,210!. ;:                             288
(c) Soda Ash                               65,30OC0)
Sub-Total                                  29$5            583         288      52
2. Internal Power Generation &
Utilities (0)                                    a!
Additional Fertilizer                 53.120-    lOL             229         125     23
Nutrient Output -
3. Anti-Pollution (3)
Recovered Industrial Chemicals         8,300-/    13               47          3L      6
b. Refinery Expansion (1)
Additional Crude Oil Refining          2.5      1,536           1,6112        106     29
Capacity                       million
Total                                    1,9h8           2,501         553    lOO
a/   Excludes depreciation and interest charges.  The value of by-products or co-proc3ucts
(soda ash) have been deducted from operating costs to arrive at the net cost.
b/   182,500 TPY N and 17,300 TPY P205.
c/   15,880 TPY phosphate rock, 9,530 TP'I sulphur and 5.800 TPY raphtha.
d/   39,800 TFY N and 13,600 TPY P205.
e/   2800 TPY cryolite, 3)tO0 TPY alumin=r, fluoride and 2100 TPY silica.
Industrial Protects Depar-tnen t



ANNE 7 -4
INDIA - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES Ot RETURN
Rate of Return %
C2Mpany/Sub-Project                                               Financial  /   EcFnonic
I.   Public Sector
A. FCI
Boiler/Power Set-Gorakhpur          15               22
Boiler/Power Set-Durgapur           19               26
Boiler-Trombay                      15               26
Ammonia Tankwagons/Storage          21               37
Pollution Control & Testing         1A1A"
Equipment
B.  Neyveli Lignite
Corporation              Feedstock Conversion                27              hl
C. Hindustan Steel
Corp.(Rourkela)          Feedstock Conversion                15 l3 
II.   Joint Sector
D.  GSFC                     Purge Gas Recovery                  34
Fluorine Recovery/Cryolite Plant   30                21
Phosphoric Acid Plant Upgrading    L7               ho
E. HPCL                     Refinery Expansion                   49               26
F.  hadras Fertilizer        Urea Plant Debottlenecking       Exceeds 60%      Exceeds 60%
Ammonia Process Control Computer Exceeds 60%      Exceeds 60%
G. SPIC                      Fluorine Recovery/Cryolite Plant  30                 21
Soda Ash/Ammonium Chloride Plant   19                18
III.   Private Sector
H. Coromandel                Boiler/Power Set                 Exceeds 60    Exceeds 60c'
Fluorine Recovery/Aluminum
Fluoride. Plant                     36               28
I.  Zuari Agro               Ammonia Plant Debottlenecking      Di               52
Urea Plant Pollution Control        NA               NA
IV.  Iiiscellaneous                Technical Assistance                NA.              NA
Composite Return for 17 Projects with quantifiable benefits 26                   32
1/ Fir.ncial rate of return before incomie taxes.
2/ LP. - not applicable. The benefits have not been quantified.
Industria1 Projects Department
Noveritber 1975



ANNEX 8
INDIA - FERT[LIZER INDUSTRY CREDIT
SUMIARY ECONOIIG COSTS AID BENEFITS
In Millions of Constant 1975 Runees
Annual    Annual Net   Annual         Net
Physical  Operating    Gross Value   Annual
Type and ?Numnber or Sub-Projects            Benefits  Costsa/       of Benefits   Benefit
TPY
1.  Capacit" E:pansion & Process
Efficiency Improvement (10)
(a) Additional Fertilizer               199,800/)                  67h
Nutrient Output                               ) 260                        43
(b) Reduction in Raw Material Usage      31 210i/)                  20
(c) Soda Ash                             6 5,300  )                          )
Sub-Total                                 260            694   -   Tj3766
2. internal Power Generation &
Utilities (!)
Additional Fertilizer                53,b6O/   89              2b0          151    23
Nutriert Output
3. Anti-Poll,ution (3)
Recovered Industrial Che.icalis       8,300Q_/   10             32           22     3
He. ifimwry Expansion (1)
Adc; l:or.an. Crude OiI Be fnirg       2,5   1,535           1,581           46     8
Capacity                        million
T.i                                    _
Total                                  1,894           2,547         653   100
a/ Excludes depreciation and interest charges. The value of by-products or
co-products have been deducted from operating costs to arrive at the net cost.
b/ 182,500 TPY N and 17,300 TPY P205.
c/ 15,880 TPY phosphate rock, 9,530 TPY sulphur and 5,800 TPY naphtha.
d/ 39,800 TPY N and 13,600 TPY P20.
e/ 2,800 TPY cryolite, 3,h00 T'Y aluminum fluoride and 2,100 TPY silica.
Industrial Projects Department
November 1975



INED IA
AFGHANISTAN                                                    ~~~~MAJOR FERTILIZER PLANTS AND REFINERIES
yale Cooo0                                     ~~~~~~~PRESENT AND PROPOSED
JAMMUJ -o'KASHMIR    !                                   FERTIL IZER PLANTS    REFINERIES
N itoe    Pirepra.,
U                      A   -otP-eld
PAKISTAN                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S'tat end Unio  Terr.itory 9-ud-rie
p  ChandrarienaioiRndte
DelhiYNA    HIC                                               IN
WDELHI  ~~~~~.rl                       (Tibet)                                              R  E/
KHETRTAR                                      NEPAL                                                      
EHERI          MATURA           0LuIynw    GOR  HP~-.'1ESH                   rJ    BHUTAN
RAJASTHAN ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ET    '
IEL       QDGmalkhprG          EEGL'
RAUNI                      O        4         SNIf
IFFCOW~U~                                ~        ~ oq           SNSC
ipur                                        Phu[pur SRIALANKA
one Eoenr0a0ra done oe OOW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      5NDR
Kyooen'eaanr    0   R
uErORaaeyarroo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eo00~G 



