CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 598 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fertilizer Industry Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 31, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 598 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fertilizer Industry Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 31, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 31, 1975, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Fertilizer Corporation
of India with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to the Fertilizer Corporation of India part of the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C)   Part B of th- Project will be carried out through the Industrial
Development Bank of India with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Industrial Development Bank
of India part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter, in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and the Fertilizer Corporation of India, and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the Industrial
Development Bank of India;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1 .01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective


﻿4
meanings therein set forth and thc following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "FCI" means the Fertilizer Corporation of India, a company registered
under the Companies Act, 1956, as amended, of the Borrower;
(b)   "IDBI" means the Industrial Development Bank of India, a body
corporate established under the Industrial Development Bank of India Act, No. 18
of 1964, as amended, of the Borrower;
(c)   "FCI Project Agreement" means the agreement between        the
Association and FCI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the FCI Project Agreement
and all agreements supplemental to the FCI Project Agreement;
(d)   "IDBI Project Agreement" means the agreement between       the
Association and IDBI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time and such term includes all agreements supplemental to the IDBI Project
Agreement;
(e)   "FCI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and FCI pursuant to Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the FCI Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f)   "IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and IDBI pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g)   "Neyveli" means Neyveli Lignite Corporation Limited;
(h)   "Hindustan Steel" means Hindustan Steel Limited;
(i)   "GSFC" means Gujarat State Fertilizers Company Limited;
(j)   "SPIC" means Southern Petrochemical Industries Corporation and
includes any company promoted by SPIC and incorporated under the laws of the
Borrower for the purpose of setting up facilities for the manufacture of soda ash
and ammonium chloride at Tuticorn in the State of Tamil Nadu;
(k)   "HPCL" means Hindustan Petroleum Company Limited;


﻿5
(1)   "Coromandel" means Coromandel Fertilizers Limited;
(m)   "Madras Fertilizers" means Madras Fertilizers Limited;
(n)   "Zuari" means Zuari Agro-chemicals Limited; and
(o)   "Beneficiary" means each of the entities specified in (a) and (g)
througih (n) above to the extent that such entity will receive a specified portion
of the proceeds of the Credit or foreign exchange equivalent.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred five million dollars
($105,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of V",) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.


﻿6
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
January 15, 1986, and ending July 15, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on July 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out Part
C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
FCI to perform in accordance with the provisions of the FCI Project Agreement
and the FCI Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
cause IDBI to perform in accordance with the provisions of the IDBI Project
Agreement and the IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
FCI and IDBI to perform such obligations, and shall not take or cause or permit
any of its political subdivisions or any of its agencies or any agency of any such
political subdivisions to take any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance by FCI and IDBI.
Section 3.03. (a) To carry out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
relend to FCI, out of the proceeds of the Credit, funds equivalent to the amount
allocated in sub-category (a) of Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph
I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and FCI under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(i)        the loan will be repaid by FC1 to the Borrower within 15 years,
including 4 years of grace; and


﻿7
(ii)        interest, including special charges, if any, shall be paid on the
outstanding balance from time to time at the rate of ten and
one-half per cent (10-1/2%) per annum       less a rebate of
one-quarter of one per cent (1/4 of 1') for prompt payment
of debt service.
(b)   To carry out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall relend to IDBI,
out of the proceeds of the Credit, funds equivalent to the amounts allocated in
sub-categories (d) through (g) of Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph
I of Schedule I to this Agreement under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and IDBI under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(i)         the loan will be repaid by IDBI to the Borrower within 15 years,
including 4 years of grace; and
(ii)        interest, including special charges, if any, shall be paid on the
outstanding balance from time to time at the rate of eight and
one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the FCI and IDBI
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor
amend, abrogate or waive the FCI and IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any
provision thereof.
(d)   In order to carry out Part C(i) and (ii) of the Project, the Borrower
shall, (i) make available to Neyveli and Hindustan Steel, out of the proceeds of
the Credit, funds equivalent to the amounts allocated in sub-categories (b) and
(c), respectively, of Category (I) of the table set forth in paragriph I of Schedule
I to this Agreement, in the form of equity; and (ii) cause FCI to be appointed
as the engineering contractor on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(e)   In order to carry out Part C(iii) and (iv) of the Project, the Borrower
shall make available to Coromandel and Madras Fertilizers foreign exchange
equivalent to the amounts allocated in sub-categories (h) and (i), respectively, of
Category 1 of the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) Where a contract is awarded for the supply for the Project
of goods manufactured outside India, the Borrower shall immediately grant
permission to import the goods covered by the contract, and no reviews of such


﻿8
permission to import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its agencies,
and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be promptly made available.
(b)   Where a contract is awarded for the supply for the Project of goods
manufactured in India, the Borrower shall (i) promptly upon receipt of the
appropriate applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall
be. required to implement the contract; (ii) make available, or cause to be made
available, promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor;
and (iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required for such contract.
(c)   If at any time the Association or any of the Beneficiaries determines
after consultation with each other and the Borrower that any equipment or material
to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit cannot be delivered on or prior
to its scheduled delivery date and that such delay would adversely affect the
completion of the Project, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary action
to permit such Beneficiary to procure such equipment or material by such
procedures as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall obtain from      Neyveli, Hindustan Steel,
Coromandel and Madras Fertilizers an undertaking acceptable to the Association:
(a)   to carry out their respective Parts of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, financial and
administrative practices;
(b)   to employ, if required, engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association;
(c)   to procure equipment, spares and materials to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, or equivalent foreign exchange made available to them
by the Borrower, in accordance with Schedule 3 to this Agreement and to use
such goods exclusively in the carrying out of their respective parts of the Project;
(d)   to furnish to the Association through the Borrower promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for their respective Parts of the Project
and any material modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as the
Association shall from  time to time request;


﻿9
(e)   to maintain- records adequate to identify the goods and services
acquired out of the proceeds of the Credit or equivalent foreign exchange made
available to them by the Borrower, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to
record the progress of their respective Parts of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices their operations and financial condition;
(f)   to allow the Association's representatives to inspect their respective
Parts of the Project and the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
or the foreign exchange made available under the Project, and to examine all plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment included in the Project,
the operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(g)   to insure with responsible insurers, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the foreign exchange made available to them by the Borrower, against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance, any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods;
(h)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(i)   to inform the Borrower and the Association promptly of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of 'the Credit or the carrying out of their respective Parts of the Project;
(j)   to give all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
relating to their financial condition, operation and administration;
(k)   to furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning their respective Parts of the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit or the foreign exchange made available
to them by the Borrower and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds
or such foreign exchange; and
(1)   to (i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association


﻿10
as soon as available, but, in any case not later than four months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning the foregoing accounts and
financial statements as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than April 1 and October 1
in each year, furnish to the Association progress reports on the provision of funds
by the Borrower for all ongoing fertilizer projects in the public sector.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause to be taken all action necessary to maintain
FCI in a sound financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall by March 31, 1977, or such other date
as the Association may agree, cause to be completed a study, in accordance with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, of demand for fertilizer in the
territories of the Borrower, including a ten year forecast, and shall cause to be
established suitable procedures to update said forecast annually for a minimum
period of ten years.
Section 4.03. In order to coordinate and advise on the Borrower's policies
relating to the fertilizer sector, the Borrower shall promptly establish, and maintain,
a high-level authority.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall by June 30, 1976, or such other date as
the Association may agree, cause to be completed a study of the transportation
of raw materials and products related to the fertilizer industry, and shall implement
the recommendations of said study in consultation with the Association on priority
basis.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to improve
the management and operations of public sector fertilizer enterprises.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the
Association for the supply of all materials, including ammonia and phosphate rock,
by permitting imports if and when necessary, in such quantities as shall be adequate
to operate the Beneficiaries' plants up to full capacity.


﻿11
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall not take or cause to be taken any action
which, assuming production under conditions of efficient operation, would prevent
fertilizer manufacturers in the territories of the Borrower from meeting their
expenses and servicing debt out of their revenues, and from earning a reasonable
return on invested capital.
Section 4.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, in respect of fertilizer production units managed and operated by Neyveli
and Hindustan Steel, take or cause to be taken necessary steps to:
(a)   maintain separate accounts and furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter
and fiscal year, (i) quarterly financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses, cash flow and related statements) and, (ii) quarterly and
annual forecast statements of production, income and cash flow; and
(b)   maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of at least 1.1:1.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term "current assets" means stock of spares, cash (excluding
advances to contractors for construction of projects and for
additions to fixed assets), assets readily convertible into cash,
and all other assets which could in the ordinary course of
business be converted within one year into cash or assets readily
convertible into cash; and
(ii)        the term  "current liabilities" means liabilities due and payable
and all other liabilities which would be due and payable, or could
be called for payment. within one year, including the portion
of long-term indebtedness falling due within one year.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   FCl shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
under the FCI Project Agreement or the FCI Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿12
(b)   IDBI shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
under the IDBI Project Agreement or the IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   a default shall have occurred on the part of any Beneficiary in the
performance of any undertaking referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreeiment
or in Section 2.03 of the IDBI Project Agreement;
(d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FCI or IDBI or for the
suspension of their operations;
(e)   the industrial Development Bank of India Act, No. 18 of 1964, shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as, in the
judgement of the Association, to materially and adversely affect the carrying out
of any part of the Project or the operations or financial condition of IDBl;
(f)   IDBI shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by IDBI or by others whereby
any of the property of IDBI shall or may be distributed among its creditors; and
(g)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that FCI or IDBI will be able to perform their obligations under the
FCI and IDBI Project Agreements, respectively.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower, and FCI
or IDBI, as the case may be; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) or (f) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.0 1. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿13
(a)   the execution and delivery of the FCI Project Agreement on behalf
of FCI have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the IDBI Project Agreement on behalf
of IDBI have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(c)   the execution and delivery of the FCI and IDBI Subsidiary Loan
Agreements on behalf of the Borrower and FCI and IDBI, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the FCI Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, FCI, and is legally binding upon
FCI in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the IDBI Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of IDBI, and is legally binding upon
IDBI in accordance with its terms; and
(c)   that the FCI and IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and FCI and IDBI, resp-,-tively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and
FCI and IDBI, respectively, in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 1, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.03,
4.06, 4.07 and 4.08 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 16 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿14
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director
or Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿15
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / G. V. Ramakrishna
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Equipment,                                        100% of foreign
materials, spares,                                expenditures or
consultants'                                      100% of local
services, foreign                                expenditures
license fees and
training for:
(a)   FCi                      36,000,000
(b)   Neyveli                  1 1,000,000
(c)   Hindustan                14,500,000
Steel
(d)   GSFC                      8,000,000
(c)   SPIC                     13,000,000
(f)   HPCL                      3,000,000
(g)   Zuari                     4,000,000
(h)   Coromandel                3,000,000
(i)   Madras                    1,000,000
Fertilizers
(j)   Borrower                  1,000,000
(2)   Unallocated                    10,500,000
TOTAL         105,000,000


﻿17
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of aay country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
*        4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures:
(i)        prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
may be made on account of expenditures incurred after June 1,
1975, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$6,000,000; and
(ii)       under   sub-Categories  (b) through  (i) of Category   (I),
respectively, until the Association has received the respective
undertakings referred to in Section 2.03 of the IDBI Project
Agreement and Section 3.05 of this Agreement and it has
dispatched to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of said
respective undertakings.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,


﻿18
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to assist selected companies in raising production by increasing
capacity utilization and improving pollution control. It consists of:
Part A.     FCI
Installation of turbo-generators with total capacity of about 25 MW
at FCI's plant at Gorakhpur; installation of a turbo-generator with a
capacity of about 15 MW at FCI's plant at Durgapur; installation of
a steam generating plant with a capacity of about 170 tons per hour
(TPH) at FCI's plant at Trombay; installation of about 25,000 tons
capacity of ammonia storage and acquisition and utilization of about
35 tank wagons (of 30 tons capacity each) for transportation of
ammonia; establishment of a pollution control wing, acquisition and
utilization of pollution control and non-destructive testing equipment
and technical training of engineers and staff.
Part B.     IDBI
(i)         GSFC                   -     Modernization of the
phosphoric acid and
ammonia plants, and installation
of a fluorine recovery system;
(ii)        SPIC                   -     Installation of equipment
to convert excess ammonia
to soda ash and ammonium
chloride, and installation
of a fluorine recovery system;
(iii)       HPCL                   -     Reactivation of idle
equipment, acquisition
and installation of new
equipment and expansion
of utilities to increase
refining capacity from 3.5
to 6.0 million tons per
year of crude oil; and


﻿20
(iv)      *Zuari                  -     Modernization of ammonia
plant and urea pollution
control.
Part C.     The Borrower
(i)        Neyveli                -     Conversion from lignite to
fuel oil feedstock;
(ii)       Hindustan Steel        -     Conversion from coke oven
gas to naphtha feedstock;
(iii)      Coromandel             -     Installation of a boiler
with a capacity of about
45 TPH, a turbo-generator
with a capacity of about
5 MW; and flourine recovery
system;
(iv)       Madras Fertilizers     -     Modernization of ammonia
and urea plants; and
(v)         Borrower              -     Comprehensive study of
fertilizer demand and
other project analyses,
and technical feasibility
studies as the Borrower
and the Association may
agree.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, goods, works and services shall be
procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October
1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.    Bids shall be invited from a list of suppliers acceptable to the Association.
3.    Contracts up to an aggregate amount of $20,000,000 equivalent (i) for the
procurement of items proprietory to the process design and those with limited
sources of availability whose timely supply is critical to efficient execution of the
Project, and (ii) estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less, may be
placed after obtaining quotations from appropriate suppliers, provided, that prior
approval of the Association is obtained for said items and for the list of suppliers
and that the terms and conditions of the contracts so placed are acceptable to
the Association.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids fbr Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
ihat will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿22
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in India.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 1 5% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if nut, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Before  initiating  procurement of equipment and      materials, including
preparation of list of suppliers, the Beneficiaries shall inform the Association in
detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of selected
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant from such list shall be furnished to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Beneficiaries shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.


﻿23
2.    Subject to the provisions of paragraph A.3 of this Schedule, with respect
to all contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more:
(a)   The Beneficiaries shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its comments (not being later than the date on which invitations to bid are
issued), the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Beneficiaries shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name
of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
S       if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower. and IDBI or FC, as the case
may be, and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and IDBI or FCI, as the case
may be, and state the reasons for such determination.
0


