CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER. 598 IN
IDBI Project Agreement
(Fertilizer Industry Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
DATED DECEMBER 31, 1975


﻿0
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 31, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA (hereinafter called IDBI).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred five million dollars
($105,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that IDBI agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan a-r. ment to be entered into between the
Borrower and IDBI, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to IDBI on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS IDBI, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. 1DBI shall cause to be carried out Part B of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its
operations and affairs with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with


﻿4
sound administrative, economic, financial and investment standards and practices,
with qualified and experienced management and personnel and in accordance with
the Industrial Development Bank of India Act, No. 18 of 1964.
Section 2.02. In order to cause Part B of the Project to be carried out,
IDBI shall relend to GSFC, SPIC, HPCL and Zuari, respectively, funds equivalent
to the amount allocated to each said Beneficiary in Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement and made available by the Borrower to IDBI out of the proceeds
of the Credit, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. These terms
and conditions shall not, with respect to repayment, interest including special
charges, if any, and commitment fee, be more favorable to any of the said
Beneficiaries than the following:
(a)   the loans shall be repaid within 15 years, including not more than
4 years of grace;
(b)   interest, including special charges, if any, shall be paid on the
outstanding balance from time to time at a rate not less than ten and one-quarter
per cent (10-1/4%) per annum; and
(c)   a commitment fee of not more than one per cent (1%) per annum
shall be paid on the principal amount of the loans not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.03. IDBI shall obtain from GSFC, SPIC, HPCL and Zuari,
respectively, an undertaking, acceptable to the Association:
(a)   to carry out their respective parts of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, financial and
administrative practices;
(b)   to employ, if required, engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association;
(c)   to procure equipment, spares and materials to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to them by IDBI in accordance with Schedule
3 to the Development Credit Agreement, and to use such goods exclusively in
the carrying out of their respective parts of the Project;
(d)   to take all necessary action to procure any equipment or material in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association if
at any time it is determined pursuant to Section 3.04(c) of the Development Credit


﻿5
Agreement that any such equipment or material cannot be delivered on or prior
to its scheduled delivery date and that such delay would adversely affect the
completion of their respective parts of the Project;
(e)   to furnish to the Association promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for their respective parts of the Project and any material modifications
subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Association shall from time to
time request;
(f)   to maintain records adequate to identify the goods and services
acquired out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to them by IDBI, to
disclose the use thereof in their respective parts of the Project, to record the progress
of their respective parts of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices their
operations and financial condition;
(g)   to allow the Association's representatives to inspect their respective
parts of the Project and the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment included in the Project, the operation thereof and any relevant records
and documents;
(h)   to insure with responsible insurers, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to them by IDBI, against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance, any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace
or repair such goods;
(i)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
()    to inform  the Borrower, IDBI and the Association promptly of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, the carrying out of their respective parts of the
Project;
(k)   to give all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
relating to their financial condition, operation and administration;


﻿6
(1)   to furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning their respective parts of the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit made available to them and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds; and
(in)  to (A) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (B) furnish to the Association
as soon as available, but, in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, (i) certified copies of the financial statements for such year
as so audited and (ii) report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (C) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning the foregoing accounts and
financial statements as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 2.04. IDBI shall duly perform all its obligations under the IDBI
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IDBI
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) IDBI shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the IDBI
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)   IDBI shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by IDBI of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the IDBI Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.06. IDBI shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any outstanding debt of IDBI which, in the judgement of the
Association, would materially affect IDBI's ability to meet its financial obligations.


﻿7
ARTICLE I
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. IDBI shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 3.02. IDBI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than five months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of IDBI and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of IDBI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 16 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify IDBI of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For IDBI:
Industrial Development Bank of India
New India Centre
17 Cooperage
Bombay 400039, India
Cable address:                              Telex:
INDBANKIND                                  022-2193 Bombay
Bombay
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of IDBI may be taken or executed by its General Manager or such other person
or persons as IDBI shall designate in writing.


﻿9
Section 5.03. IDBI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of IDBI, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by IDBI pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
By /s / G. V. Ramakrishna
Authorized Representative


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 598 IN
FCI Project Agreement
(Fertilizer Industry Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA
DATED DECEMBER 31, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 31, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA (hereinafter called FCI).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred five million dollars
($105,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that FCI agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and FCI, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to FCI on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS FCI, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. FCI shall carry out Part A of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. In order to assist FCI in execution of Part A of the Project,
FCI may employ engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(b)   If at any time the Association or FCI determines, after consultation
with each other and the Borrower, that any equipment or material cannot be
delivered on or prior to its scheduled delivery date, and that such delay would
adversely affect completion of Part A of the Project, FCI shall promptly take all
necessary action to procure such equipment or material by such procedures as
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. (a) FCI undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by FCI
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, FCl shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) FCl shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   FCI: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of Part
A of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in Part A of the Project, and
to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project, the
__


﻿5
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   FCI shall enable the Association's representatives to examine all plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of FCL and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. FCI shall duly perform all its obligations under the FCI
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FCI
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the FCI Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) FCI shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the FCI Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   FCt shall promptly inform   the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by FCI
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the FCI Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FCI
Section 3.0 1. FCI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. FCI shall:
(a)   at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its
future expansion and carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate
business, financial and engineering practices and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management assisted by adequate and competent staff;
and
(b)   promptly staff with experienced and competent personnel any vacant
position related to the construction and operation of the facilities included in Part
A of the Project.


﻿6
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FCI shall:
(a)   at all times take all steps N hich are necessary to maintain its existence
and its right to carry on operations and to acquire and retain ownership of all
lands and to maintain and renew all interests in land and other properties and
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
carrying out of Part A of the Project or in the conduct of its business;
(b)   at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and
other property, and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices;
(c)   not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its business and
undertaking; and
(d)   not alter its corporate structure or amend its Memorandum or Articles
of Association in any way that will materially and adversely affect its ability to
perform its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. FCI shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. FCI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of FCI and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿7
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of FCI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 1 6 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify FCI of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For FCI:
Fertilizer Corporation of India
F-43 South Extension Area Part I
Ring Road
New Delhi-49, India


﻿8
Cable address:
FERTILIZER
New Delhi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
docume.nts required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of FCI may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other person
or persons as FCI shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. FCI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of FCI, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by FCI pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA
By /s / G. V. Ramakrishna
Authorized Representative


