Dam.uat tf
The World Bank
FOR OMaCI4L USE ONLY
AD/. ;?Gg3- CA
Report No. 5519-CM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CAMEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
April 10, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Education Division
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the perfortnansc
or their of ficial duties. Its contents nmay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankc authorizqtion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 = CFAF 385
CFAF 1 million - US$2,597
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                             British/US Equivalent
1 meter                       -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)           0.39 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CENAFOP   -    N.ational Center for Adult Vocational Training ("Centre
national de formation professionnelle continue")
CET       -    Lower Secondary Technical School ("Collage d'enseignement
technique")
CETI      -    Industrial CET ("CET industriel")
CETIC     -    Industrial and Commercial CET ("CET industriel et
commercial")
CETIF     -    Female Occupations CET ("CET mietiers feminins")
CFPR      -    Accelerated Vocational Training Center ("Centre de Formation
Professionnelle Rapide")
DEPH      -    Directorate of Primary and Maternal Education ("Direction de
1'enseignement primaire et maternel")
DETP      -    Directorate of Technical and Professional Education
("Direction de l'enseignement technique et professionnel")
DMOFP     -    Directorate of Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects
("Direction de la main-d'oeuvre, de la formation
professionnelle et des projets")
DPE       -    Education Projects Directorate ("Direction des projets
&ducation")
DPOS      -    Educational Planning Division ("Division de la planification
et de l'orientation scolaires")
ENIA      -    Primary Teachers College ("Ecole normale d'instituteurs
adjoints")
ENS       -    Secondary Teachers College ("Ecole normale superieure")
ENSET     -    Technical Teacher Ttaining School ("Ecole normale
superieure de l'enseignement technique")
FED       -    European Development Fund ("Fond Europeen de Developpement")
IPAR      -    Curriculum Development Center ("Institut de pedagogie
appliquee a vocation rurale")
MINEDUC   -    Ministry of National Education ('"Ministare de l'education
nationale")
MESRES    -    Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
("Ministere de l'enseignement superieur et de la recherche
scientifique")
MIPS      -    Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (')"inistere du
travail et de la prevoyance sociale")
FISCAL YEAR                             SCHOOL YEAR
July 1 - June 30                         September - June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAHEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE      .................... iii-iv
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................................ v-viii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...................................................   I
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ..............................   2
A.  The Education and Training System .........................   2
B.  Government Strategy for Educational Development ...........   3
C.  The Issues ................................................   3
1.  Quality of Primary and Technical Secondary Education.   3
2.  Relevance of the Vocational Training System to the
Labor Market .........................................   6
D.  The Bank Group's Role in Educational Development ..........   7
TIII  THE PROJECT.9
III. TEPOCT....................................................       9
A.  Project Objectives and Description ........................   9
1.  Improving the Quality of Primary and Technical
Secondary Education ..................................   9
2.  Increasing the Relevance of the Vocational
Training System ......................................  12
B.  Project Cost and Financing Plan             ..               14
C. Project Implementation                  ..                    14
1.  Preparation, Management and Institution Building .....  14
2.  Procurement ..........................................  16
3.  Disbursements ........................................  17
4.  Recurrent Cost Implications ..........................  18
5.  Auditing and Reporting ...............................  18
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .....................................  18
V.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................  19
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which
visited Cameroon in May 1984 and was composed of Messrs. Fremy, Papineau,
Verspoor and Gagne (consultant), followed by a post-appraisal mission in
November 1984 composed of Messrs. Fremy, Hamilton and Papineau. This
report was drafted by those missions and completed by Mr. Fremy; Mmes.
Angers, Currie and van Wingerden assisted the mission members with the
preparation of the report. The editor was Ms. Roos.
This document has restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofAcial dutie. Its contents mey not otherwise be discloed without World Bpnk authorintion.



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
1-1    Basic Data
1-2    Economic Background
2-1    Wage Employment Growth
2-2    Comparative Education Indicators
2-3    Structure of the Education and Training System
2-4    Organization Charts of the Ministry of National Education and the
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
2-5    Primary Education
2-6    Primary School Teacher Training
2-7    Secondary Technical Education
2-8    Comnvarison of Recurrent Costs per Student In Selected
West African Countries
2-9    Distribution of the Education Budget
3-1    Rehabilitation of Secondary Technical Schools
3-2    Implementation Schedule - Ministry of National Education
3-3    Sumanry of Specialist Services and Fellowships - Ministry of
National Education
3-4    Implementation Schedule - Mlnistry of Labor and Social Welfare
3-5    Summary of Specialist Services and Fellowships - Ministry of Labor
and Social Welfare
3-6    Major Assumptions for Project Cost Estimates
3-7    Project Costs
3-8    Unit Areas and Costs
3-9    Project Management Arrangements
3-10   Disbursement Profile
MAP: IBRD 18815R



- iii -
CAMEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.                    Document Title                        WAIC Code
1.   "Rmquates adressees a la Banque Mondiale" - QuatriAme
Projet Education - Cameroun - Unesco, 1981 - Unesco, 1982
- et version mise a jour, Octobre 1982.                       228.342
2.   Detailed Working Papers - Cameroon - Professional Training
and Institutional Development Project, Revised and Updated
by IBRD mission, May 1984; includes 3 - 10 below.             228.343
3.   Developpement de la formation de maltres qualifies pour
l'enseignement primaire (Working Paper), May 1984.            228.344
4.   Renforcement de la Division de planification (MINEDUC) et
du Service des statistiques (Working Paper), May 1984.        228.345
5.   Renforcement de la Planification de la Direction de
1'enseignement technique et professionnel (MINEDUC)
(Working Papers), May 1984.                                   228.346
6.  Renforcement de la Planification du Ministere du Travail
(services statistiques, main-d'oeuvre et formation
professionnelle (Working Papers), May 1984.                   228.347
7.   Assistance au CENAFOP (Working Paper).                        228.347
8.   Termes de reference assistance technique et bourses.          228.347
9.   Avant-projets architecturaux (tous etablissements).           228.350
10.  Listes d'equipement (toutes composantes).                     228.351
11.  Memorandum sur le secteur de l'education, BIRD, 1978.         228.349
12.  Etude du secteur moderne, emploi, main d'oeuvre qualifie
et enseignement technique, Unesco, 1982.                      228.353
13.  Etude du developpement de l'enseignement technique du
Cameroun, Ministare de l'Education, Cameroun, 1982.           228.354
14.  Supplementary data on education, October 1983.                228.355



- iv -
15.  Donnees generales de la scolarisation par niveau et par
type d'enseignement en 1981-82, Ministare de l'Education,
Bureau des Statistiques.                                      228.356
16. Maquette de l'education nationale en Republique Unie du
Cameroun, 1983.                                               228.357
17.  Aide-Memoire:
(a) Summary of IBRD preparation mission, led by
Mr. Adriaan Verspoor, October, 1983 - filed October 22, 1983.
(b) Summary of IBRD pre-appraisal mission, conducted by
Messrs. Tran-Luu and Gagne, January, 1984 - filed February 2,
1984.
(c)  Summary of IBRD appraisal mission, led by Mr. Adriaan Verspoor,
May, 1984 - filed Kay 23, 1984.
(d)  Summary of IBRD post-appraisal mission, led by Mr. Jacques Fremy.
November 1984 - filed Ed. Sector (Ed. 5) November 23, 1984.



v 
CAHEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiary:   Ministry of National Education
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
Loan Amount:  US$30.1 million equivalent
Terms:         Standard IBRD terms
Project
Description:   The major objectives of the project are to:
I. Improve the quality of primary and technical secondary
education through:
(a)  Increasing the number of qualified primary school
teachers by (i) constructing new facilities for
three existing primary teachers colleges (total of
600 places) that would serve as regional centers
for pre--and in-service training; and (ii)
-          preparing proposals for improving the efficiency
and reducing the costs of primary teacher
training;
(b)  ITpgrading the practical skills of lower and upper
secondary technical school graduates by
rehabilitating and reequipping training facilities
at 10 secondary technical schools, as part of a
strategy to improve technical education, including
technical teacher training;
(c)  Improving the management of education through
assistance to: (i) the Educational Planning
Division for improved planning and management of
resources; (ii) the Directorate of Technical and
Professional Education to strengthen planning
capacity and technical school administration, and
to carry out pre-investment studies for the
rehabilitation of three other secondary technical
schools and for development of a maintenance
system for technical and science equipment; and
(iii) the Education Projects Directorate to
strengthen its capacity for project preparation
and lmplementation.



-vi-
2.   Increase the relevance of the vocational training
system to the labor market through:
(a) Supporting the development of the National Center
for Adult Vocational Training by improving
existing courses, introducing new courses,
implementing a staff development program (training
and upgrading), and equipping the Center's new
workshops;
(b)  Improving the management of vocational training by
strengthening the capabilities of the Directorate
of Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects for
(i) manpower planning and the management of
training resources, (ii) project preparation and
implementation, and (iii) the carrying out of
pre-investment studies for the creation of eight
vocational training centers, development of an
apprenticeship system, and creation of an Office
of Mpower and Qiontinuous Training.
.1
r. ":..s 



- vi -
net of tmes and duties) a
Z of
Local   Foreign  Total   Base Costs
- USS million- -
1. Improving the quallty of
primary and technical
secondary education
(a) Primary Teachers Colleges        12.4      7.1    19.5        41
(b) Secondary Technical Schools       3.9      6.7    10.6        22
(c) Management of Education           1.1      4.5      5.6       12
Subtotal          17.4     18.3    35.7        75
2. Increase the relevance of the
vocational tralning system to
the labor market
(a) National Center for Adult
Vocational Training (CENAFOP)    3.8       5.3      9.1       19
(b) Management of Vocational
Training                          0.5      2.1      2.6        6
Subtotal          4.3       7.4    11.7        25
Total Base Costs                      21.7      25.7    47.4      100
Physical Contingencies                 1.6       1.6     3.2        7
Price Contingencies                    5.3       5.3    10.6       22
Total Project Costs                   286       326    612        129
Financing Plan
IBRD                                    -      30.1    30.1        49
Government                            28.6       2.5    31.1       51
Total                                 28.6      32.6    61.2       100
Estimated Loan Disburse*mt:
IBRD Fiscal Year
1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993
-  U       s $  miflion-------------ion
Annual           .4        1.6        4         6        7        8      3.1
Cumulative       .4          2        6        12       19       27      30.1
a/ of which the project would be exempt.



- viii -
Economic Rate
of Return:   Not applicable
Benefits and
Risks:       By improving the quality of primary education, secondary
technical education, and vocational training, the project
would help to meet some of the most urgent needs for
qualified manpower of an expanding economy. For the
longer term, it would strengthen the planning,
policymaking and management capabilities of the
Ministries of National Education and of Labor and Social
Welfare, and it would contribute to reinforcing the links
between education, training and employment. These
measures would assist, in the future, in the preparation
of sound investment programs and in their efficient
implementation--two considerations that will become
increasingly critical as Cameroonts oil revenues decline.
The main risk of the project, in light of past Bank Group
experience in the sector, is that of implementation
difficulties resulting from weak institutions. To reduce
this risk, special attention has been given to the units,
within the two involved technical ministries, charged
with implementing the project: the Education Projects
Directorate in MINEDUC and the Directorate of Manpower,
Vocational Training and Projects in MTPS would be
strengthened, and each Directorate would be provided
appropriate staff and technical assistance under the
project. To ensure timely posting of the technical
assistance personnel, a condition of loan effectiveness
would be the signing of their contracts. To ensure that
the technical assistance will create a local capability
rather than substitute for it, the staff development
program would be closely monitored. The second
risk-rapid deterioration of the new equipment for the
secondary technical schools-- would be addressed through
the development of a maintenance system.
MAP: IBRD 18815R
WAPED
March 1986



CAMEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1.      The Government of the Republic of Cameroon has requested Bank
assistance in financing a project to continue the development of the
education and training system, for which a large increase of resources
has been included in the Fifth Development Plan (1981-86) in recognition
of the need to strengthen and expand the human resource base of the
economy. In addressing this need, the proposed project aims to (a)
improve the quality of primary and technical secondary education, and
(b) increase the relevance of the vocational training system to the
labor market. It also includes provisions to strengthen the planning
and management capabilities of the central sectoral Institutions. Total
project cost is estimated at US$61.2 million equivalent; the Government
would contribute about US$31.1 million equivalent, leaving US$30.1
million to be externally financed. A Bank loan for that amount is
proposed.
1.2.      Improving the quality of the country's human resources is an
essential condition for maintaining balanced economic growth and
effectively tackling the economy's institutional and manpower
constraints. Cameroon's economy is undergoing rapid structural change
as a result of rising oil output and exports. Oil production, which
began in 1978 and is expected to peak in the mid-eighties, has replaced
agriculture as the country's main foreign exchange earner and has
brought about a dramatic increase in the Government's budgetary revenue.
This new affluence would make it possible to accelerate capital
investment well beyond the present 25Z of GDP; nevertheless, the
Government has resisted the temptation of uninhibited investment and
continues to follow prudent fiscal policies In the face of mounting
pressure for increased spending, notably In the social sectors. If the
Government is to be able to translate Into lasting growth and
development the transitory opportunity offered by oil production, an
adequate supply of trained manpower, and a capacity for the efficient
planning and management of public investment programs, are needed. The
proposed project addresses both of these priority needs: the first by
supporting the Government's efforts to expand and Improve technical
education and vocational training and to improve the quality of primary
education; the second by strengthening the institutions in charge of
education and training, thereby improving the Government's capacity to
develop new sectoral strategies and to coordinate and implement future
Investment programs in the sector more effectively. The Basic Data
Sheet is at Annex 1-1. Economic background information is set out In
Annex 1-2.



- 2 -
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A.  The Education and Training System
2.1.      The inadequacy of the education system in providing basic
literacy and numeracy, combined with limited opportunities for technical
and vocational training, has led to severe deficits in skilled manpower
and to low labor productivity. Especially severe are the shortages of
technically trained manpower for the fast-growing industrial sector,
with the secondary technical schools' output providing only about 25Z of
that sector's estimated annual requirements. Unless action is taken,
this situation is likely to deteriorate further, since the population of
10 million (in 1985), growing ar 3.2Z per annum, is expected to nearly
double in 22 years.
2.2.      This is not due to a lack of effort on the Government's part:
at the primary level alone, between 1960 and 1984 the number of children
attending school quadrupled to reach about 1.6 million, bringing the
total net enrollment ratio to 78%. The Government has made considerable
progress in establishing and delivering public school services,
increasing their share from about 33% to 65Z of total enrollment at the
primary level. As a result, Cameroon ranks very high in quantitative
terms as compared vith other African countries. However, the effort has
stretched the education system's capabilities beyond its limit and has
adversely affected the quality of instruction in the schools. For
reasons explained in para 2.5, internal efficiency is low at all
educational levels, and the training provided does not adequately
prepare students to either meet the needs of the labor market or to move
to higher levels. Annex 2-1 gives estimated annual requirements of
qualified personnel. Annex 2-2 provides a table of Comparative
Education Indicators, showing how Cameroon compares with other
countries.
2.3.      Structure and organization.  The general education structure
in Cameroon follows the English pattern in the West and Northwest
Provinces, and the French pattern in the eight other provinces. The
Ministry of National Education ("Ministere de l'education nationale" -
MINEDUC) is responsible for all levels of the formal system except
post-secondary education, which falls under the recently created
Ministrv of Higher Education and Scientific Research ("Minist&re de
l'enseignement superieur et de la recherche scientifique" - MESRES).
MINEDUC has centralized decisionmaking in Yaounde and delegated
operational responsibilities to its directorates and its Educational
Planning Division ("Division de la planification et de l'orientation
scolaires" - DPOS). The latter, and the Directorate of Technical and
Professional Education ("Direction de l'enseignement technique et
professionnel" - DETP) have key roles in formulating the Government's
sectoral policies, and planning and managing the development of
education. Responsibility for vocational training and skill upgrading
rests with the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare ("Ministere du
travail et de la prevoyance sociale" - MTPS) and its recently created
Directorate of Manpower. Vocational Training and Projects ("Direction de
la main-d'oeuvre. de la formation professionnelle et des projets"-
DMOFP). The structure of the education and training system is shown in



-3-
Annex 2-3. At Annex 2-4 are organigrams of the Ministry of National
Education and of the Directorate of Manpower and Vocational Training.
B.  Government Strategy for Educational Development
2.4.      In the Fifth Development Plan (1981-86), the Government
emphasized human resource development, increasing the share of education
in the national investment budget to 8.8% (from 5X in the Fourth Plan),
for a total of CFAF 236 billion (US$565 million). Although the Plan
lacked a sound analysis of investment and reform priorities as well as a
comprehensive development strategy for the sector, the Government's de
facto sectoral priorities were to: (a) expand and improve the quality
of technical education and vocational training as rapidly as possible to
alleviate the severe manpower constraints that are hampering the
economy; (b) expand and improve the quality of primary education to
achieve universality by the end of the century; and (c) strengthen the
planning and management capabilities of the key sectoral institutions to
improve resource use and remove absorptive capacity bottlenecks. These
priorities have guided the design of the proposed project. While data
and analysis for supporting them are still limited, the social demand
for education is so strong, the shortages of qualified manpower so
pervasive and the constraints on implementation so severe that there is
little doubt that these sectoral objectives are sound. This has been
confirmed by a recently completed survey of the Education and Training
sector, prepared by Government and the UNESCO/Bank Cooperative Program,
under Bank financing. Beginning in April 1985, the survey has served as
a basis for wide-ranging tripartite sectoral discussions, including
Bank/UNESCO assistance to preparation of the Sixth Plan (1986-91).
Early indications are that the emerging strategy will pursue the same
objectives. However, under the Sixth Plan, special emphasis will be
given to the linkage between education and employment. To what extent
these objectives can be achieved will largely depend on the Government's
ability to improve the planning and implementing capabilities of the
responsible institutions.
C.  The Issues
2.5.      The Government/Unesco/Bank Cooperative Program survey
thoroughly analyzed a number of issues, including: (a) deficiencies in
the quality and output of primary and technical secondary education; (b)
the inadequacy of the vocational training system in meeting the modern
sector's requirements for skilled workers; and (c) the lack of a strong
institutional framework for strategic thinking, policy analysis,
investment planning and management of the sector. These three critical
constraints would be the focus of this project; others, such as the
costs and financing of education, manpower issues, and the inefficient
teaching of math and science in secondary general education would also
be tackled but require further study and would be addressed under
subsequent projects.
1.  Quality of Primary and Technical Secondary Education
2.6.      Primary education.  At the primary level, the low quality of
education is the major deficiency. Over the 1977-84 period, enrollments



-4 -
have grown at an average rate of 4.5Z p.a. to total about 1.6 million
(45Z girls) with net ratios ranging from 70X to 10OZ (except in the
northern provinces, with about 30%). However, this has not been matched
by improvements in internal efficiency: about 50% of the students
enrolled in Grade 1 drop out before completing primary education; of the
remaining students, only 60% pass the primary certification exanination.
The low quality of primary education is attributable mainly to the
relatively small number of qualified teachers. According to official
estimates, in 1981/82 only 40% of the teaching force of 28,600 could be
considered as qualified. This results from the low output of the
primary teacher training system. The present training capacity,
estimated at 3,000 student teacher places, providing an annual output of
1,500 teachers, would only meet about 60% of estimated needs based on
the projected primary enrollment growth (1989/90), with a 1:50
teacher/student ratio.  The capacity to provide pre- and in-service
training is severely constrainec  by (a) inadequate and inappropriate
physical facilities, largely in a state of disrepair; (b) deficiencies
in the teacher training programs, which have been too theoretical and
lacking in software support (textbooks, teaching aids and educational
materials); and (c) weakness in the management of human resources, as
the administrative and teaching staff is adequate in numbers but could
be used more efficiently.
2.7.      In order to address these constraints, the Government is
undertaking a series of actions. On the institutional side, these
include: (a) reorganization of the MINEDUC's Directorate of Primary and
Miaternal Education, with a new service in charge of primary teacher
training; (b) the revision of primary school curricula; and (c) a
comprehensive primary teacher development program covering pre- and
in-service training, development of teaching methodologies, a library
system, teachers guides and other aids, curricula improvement,
administrative restructuring of the primary teachers colleges ('Ecoles
normales d'instituteurs adjoints" - ENIAs), and a review of the system's
organization and management. On the physical facilities side, the
Government's plans include: (a) the rehabilitation of five traditional
ENIAs in the North and Northwest Provinces; and (b) the construc-
tion/equipping of new facilities for three ENIAs in Bafia, Ebolowa and
Edea, which are located in the provinces with the highest primary
education enrollments and presently are housed in very inadequate
buildings. This program is expected to improve the quality and
efficiency of primary teacher training and increase the total capacity
to about 3,300 (an increase of 10%) for an annual output of about 2,000
teachers, representing about 70% of estimated requirements. Prepared by
the Bank and the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), it is being supported by a USAID loan-cum-grant of about US$29
million, approved in November 1984. The Bank would finance under the
proposed project the construction and equipment of the three ENIAs ((b)
above) and a study on ways to improve the efficiency and reduce the
costs of the teacher training system. Annex 2-5 provides more detailed
data on primary education in Cameroon. Annex 2-6 gives details on
primary teacher training and estimated additional needs.
2.8.      Secondary technical schools do not produce practically trained
graduates in sufficient numbers, despite the rapid growth of enrollments



(9.5% p.a. on average between 1977 and 1984). In 1981/82, about 54,000
students were enrolled, 45,000 in lower secondary technical schools
("Colleges d'enseignement technique" - CETs) and 9,000 in upper
secondary technical schools ("Lycees techniques"). Industrial
onrollments represent only about 39% of the total in the CETs and about
12X in the Lycees.  Although curricula provide for a reasonable balancei
between theoretical and practical courses, the teaching of the latter
suffers from structural deficiencies in the school workshops, the
scarcity and poor condition of equipment and inadequate maintenance, and
an insufficiently qualified teaching cadre. As a result, dropout rates
are high (about 32% for the lower and 75% for the upper secondary level)
and success rates in final examinations are low (about 18% for CETs and
26% for Lycees). Consequently, the system has a consistently low output
of qualified graduates: about 2,000 for the CETs (with 75% in
industrial disciplines) and about 500 for the Lycees (with 20%, or about
100, in industrial disciplines). Moreover, the profiles of graduates
clearly do not match the needs of the modern sector.
2.9.      In order to address these constraints, the Government proposes
a number of measures, including: (a) the rehabilitation of the training
facilities in the older schools; (b) the development of a purchase and
-maintenance system for technical and science equipment; (c) the
strengthening of school administration and of the planning and
management capabilities of the central institutions responsible for
technical education; and (d) the training and upgrading of the technical
teaching cadre. This program is expected to improve efficiency,
increase the output of graduates and better prepare them to meet the
demand for industrial skills; it would also contribute to reducing the
wastage of resources. The first three of the above-mentioned measures
would form part of the proposed project (para 3.5). Technical teacher
training would be addressed under the next Bank project under
preparation, which would support the Technical Teacher Training School
("Ecole normale superieure d'enseignement technique" - ENSET) in Douala.
Annex 2-7 provides basic data on secondary technical education in
Cameroon.
2.10.          Planning and management of education.  The central
institutions responsible for planning and managing the Government's
educational development effort need strengthening. The low quality of
primary education stems largely from management deficiencies and the
lack of local capability to analyze investment and reform priorities and
prepare comprehensive plans to improve internal efficiency. Similar
deficiencies explain the inability of the secondary technical schools to
meet an expanding economy's qualitative and quantitative requirements
for technically qualified personnel (para 2.8). The Ministry of
National Education (MINEDUC) is seriously handicapped by the
unreliability of its data base, a shortage of qualified educational
planners and statisticians, and the lack of staff development
opportunities. The functions of its Educational Planning Division
(DPOS) are limited to administering an annual statistical questionnaire,
compiling the data manually, and estimating recurrent budgets. Its
Directorate for Technical and Professional Education (DETP), already
overburdened with the task of managing the existing schools, is also
expected to plan and manage more efficiently the rapidly expanding and



- 6 -
diversifying technical education subsector. Finally, the MINEDUC's
Education Projects Directorate ("Direction des projets education" - DPE)
also needs to build up its capacity to prepare, implement and evaluate
an increasing number of projects. The project would address these
weaknesses through an integrated training and technical assistance
program (paras 3.6-3.9).
2.11.          Costs and financing.  The financial implications of the
Government's planned expansion and improvement of primary and technical
secondary education have not yet been fully analyzed. A number of
problems are involved. First, appropriations for the sector,
representing 8.2% of total investment budget and 15.6% of total
recurrent budget, are insufficient in view of the economy's needs. A
comparison of investment costs per student in selected West African
countries is shown in Annex 2-8. In particular, the recurrent budget
has not increased in line with investment and is overwhelmingly absorbed
by salaries and fellowships (90%), while only about 2% is devoted to
such essential inputs as learning materials and school maintenance.
This, combined with the employment of unqualified teachers and the
self-financing of the private schools (representing 36% of primary and
54% of secondary school enrollments), explains the comparatively low
per-student cost. However, cost efficiency is low, posing a second
problem. Two other related problems are the weak absorptive capacity of
the system, as evidenced by the underutilization of planned expenditures
in the past (43.4Z under the Third Plan and 47% under the Fourth Plan),
and the upcoming exhaustion of oil revenues, projected for around 1995,
which will sharpen the need for rigorous investment and current -
expenditure prioritization. These issues would be addressed, for the
short term, by including in the Government's contribution adequate
provision for recurrent costs reflecting increased appropriations for
non-salary inputs; for the longer term, by: (a) introducing measures to
improve the cost-efficiency of primary education (para 3.3); (b)
developing, with the assistance of an education finance specialist, a
financial planning mechanism based on recommendations made in the sector
review (paras 2.5 and 3.7); and (c) creating a permanent capacity for
sound investment planning and analysis, and cost-efficient use of scarce
resources (paras 3.6-3.9 and 3.11). Annex 2-9 shows the distribution of
the education budget by category of expenditure and educational level.
2.   Relevance of the Vocational Training System to the Labor
Market
2.12.          The vocational training subsector faces the dual
challenge of expanding its training and skill upgrading capacity and
improving the quality of the training to make it more relevant to
employers' needs. First, since some 12,000 modern jobs are to be
created annually during the 1980s, there is a need for additional
manpower in the form of well-qualified graduates of the technical
schools. Second, since about two-thirds of the manpower employed in the
modern sector (totalling about 430,000 in 1981) did not attain the
primary level certificate, training remains essential to upgrade the
skills of present labor and keep those of future employees current.
However, the inadequacy of the vocational training/skill upgrading
system, ccubined with the inefficiency and poor quality of the secondary
technical education, is a major cause for the low level of skills



-7-
throughout the work force. The system, under the authority of the
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, comprises only the semi-autonomous
National Center for Adult Vocational Training ("Centre national de
formation professionnelle continue"-CENAFOP), with 250 student places,
and the five accelerated vocational training centers ("Centres de
formation professionnelle rapide"-CFPRs), with a total capacity of about
300 trainees, of whom only 25 are enrolled in industrial disciplines.
2.13.          The Government is giving high priority to remedying this
shortfall in skilled workers, particularly by providing short vocational
training programs for the large number of young school leavers and by
systematically upgrading the skills of existing industrial labor.
CENAFOP's role has become increasingly important in light of the growing
shortages of qualified lower- and middle manpower. Long before the
center was fully operational (it was established in 1981 under Credit
320-CM), it was recognized that its industrial training requirements had
been underestimated. Therefore, the Government has begun to expand and
reorganize CENAFOP's facilities and to diversify the course offerings.
But a staff development program is needed to enable the Center to
improve the relevance of existing courses and introduce new ones adapted
to an increasingly complex industrial sector. Moreover, CENAFOP has
newly built workshops which are not yet adequately organized and
equipped to provide training in the most needed specializations
(auto-mechanics, metal work, air-conditioning/refrigeration, electricity
and electronics, general and maintenance mechanics). For the CFPRs, a
thorough study is called for to assess the needs for renovating existing
centers and for expanding the training network in line with the specific
requirements of each province. These activities would be undertaken in
the project (paras 3.10-3.12).
2.14.          Planning and management of vocational training.  Within
the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, the capacity of the recently
reorganized Directorate of Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects
does not match its growing responsibilities. Its Manpower
Sub-Directorate is expected to monitor the labor market and the
economy's quantitative and qualitative manpower needs, and the
Vocational Training Sub-Directorate, to assess overall requirements for
training and skill upgrading, or to plan, coordinate and manage the
expansion and improvement of the vocational training network. However,
both sub-directorates are understaffed and lack the data base,
capability and training opportunities to perform efficiently.
Therefore, the project would reinforce DMOFP's capacity for evaluating
investment priorities on the basis of the modern sector's manpower
needs, and for planning and managing training resources, conducting
manpower surveys and preinvestment studies, and preparing and
imp'lementing projects (para 3.11).
D.   The Bank Group's Role in Educational Development
2.15.          Bank and IDA lending to Cameroon has been concentrated in
transport and agriculture (84% of the current total of about US$954
million), including three projects in the education sector (totalling
US$37.7 million, or 4% of total lending). The emphasis has been on:
(a) improving the quality of general education by supporting teacher



training, and (b) making the education and training system more
responsive to the needs of the modern sector by supporting the
diversification of general secondary education and the establishment of
employer-supported training programs. The First Education Project (Cr.
161-CM for US$11.7 million, signed in September 1969 and closed on June
30, 1979; PPAR No. 2368 dated February 12, 1979) and the Second
Education Project (Cr. 320-CM for US$9.0 million, signed in June 1972
and closed on June 30, 1982; PPAR No. 4900 dated January 20, 1984)
supported primary teacher training, general and technical secondary
education, and skill upgrading for industry. The Third Education
Project (Loan 1245T-CM for US$17.0 million, signed in July 1976 and
closed on December 31, 1984; PPAR yet to be issued) emphasized
agricultural and technical education. Implementation of these three
projects has been mediocre. They contributed to increasing the capacity
and regional distribution of primary and secondary education. Physical
targets generally were met, albeit with considerable delays and cost
overruns, but tended to focus attention at the expense of the
pedagogical objectives, which as a result were largely not reached.
Insufficient preparation of the technical assistance programs, re-
cruitment delays and inadequate monitoring adversely affected the
effectiveness of those programs. In light of the lessons learned from
these operations, the proposed project emphasizes institution building,
aiming at establishing a strong sectoral planning capability, ensuring
that the implementing directorates receive appropriate support and
staff, and bringing the processing of architectural designs,
engineering, and technical assistance contracts to an advanced stage
prior to Board presentation (para 3.15).
2.16.          Human resource development is a key element in the Bank's
strategy for Cameroon and the proposed project represents an important
step toward formulating and implementing a broad-based program in this
area. The Bank's major concern is to help the country use its oil
revenues productively and to prepare for the "post-oil" era. In line
with Government's priorities (para 2.4) and the Bank's own strategy for
Cameroon, Bank support to the sector emphasizes the alleviation of
critical manpower bottlenecks, quality improvement of the educa-
tion/training system at all levels to raise labor productivity, and the
strengthening of sectoral planning and implementing institutions in
order to prepare future sectoral development in the context of a rapidly
growing population and the expected depletion of oil resources. The
proposed project is fully in line with these objectives. Another
project, initially forming part of this operation but severed from it to
avoid overstraining local implementation capabilities, is being prepared
to improve technical teacher training, through assistance to the ENSET
(para 2.9); the next priority will be manpower development. A coherent
strategy to further expand and strengthen the system, and to deal with
its financing issues, is being developed on the basis of a comprehensive
program of studies (the sector survey mentioned earlier, proposed
complementary surveys by the Government and the Bank, and the
preinvestment studies to be financed under the project). In the
meantime, it is expected that through an improved sector knowledge and
policy dialogue, as well as the strengthened institutional capacity,
adequate conditions will be created for preparing a series of projects,



- 9 -
better designed, organized and managed to facilitate coordination of
external financing and rapid and efficient project implementation.
2.17.          Donor coordination.  Several donors actively support the
Government's human resource development programs. USAID is principally
involved in primary education (para 2.7); the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) focuses on technical secondary and vocational
training, and the French "Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation" (FAC)
intervenes at various levels of the system. However, until recently,
Government has tended to deal with each donor separately. Therefore, in
the absence of cofinancing arrangements, during preparation close
contacts were maintained with the donors to avoid duplication of
efforts, and implementation arrangements provide for systematic
coordination. For the future, the sector survey is becoming a reference
document for various sources of assistance, and the definition of a
long-term strategy integrating investment, reform and training is
expected to help the Government to coordinate and manage more
efficiently donor interventions on the basis of their comparative
advantages.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
3.1.      The project has two major objectives:  to improve the quality
of primary and technical secondary education; and to increase the
relevance of the vocational training system to the labor market. In
order to achieve the first objective, the project would: (a) increase
the number of qualified primary school teachers by constructing and
equipping new facilities for three primary teachers colleges (ENIAs) and
by preparing proposals for improving the efficiency and reducing the
costs of primary teacher training; (b) upgrade the practical skills of
lower and upper secondary technical school graduates by rehabilitating
training facilities at 10 secondary technical schools; and (c) improve
the planning and management of the education system through
strengthening the capabilities of the key units in the Ministry of
National Education.
3.2.      In order to achieve the second objective-increasing the
relevance of the vocational training system to the labor market--the
project would: (a) support the development of the National Center for
Adult Vocational Training by improving existing courses, introducing new
courses, implementing a staff development program, and equipping the
Center's new workshops; and (b) improve manpower planning and the
management of vocational training by strengthening the Directorate of
Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects (DMOFP) in the Ministry of
Labor and Social Welfare.
1.   Improving the Quality of Primary and Technical Secondary
Education
3.3.      To improve the quality of primary education, the project would
support the Government's program, designed to upgrade primary teacher



- 10 -
training (para 2.7). It would: (a) construct and equip new facilities
for the three ENIAs (no expansion involved) in Bafia, Ebolowa and Edea,
each with 200 student places; their sites were chosen and the new
facilities were designed to accommodate the more practical,
rural-oriented training course to be offered to selected junior
secondary school certificate holders and to serve as regional resource
centers for teacher training and upgrading; and (b) assist the
Directorate of Primary and Maternal Education (DEPM) in conducting a
study to prepare proposals for improving the efficiency and reducing the
costs of primary teacher training. These proposals would be reviewed
with the Bank, implemented initially at the three ENIAs and further
developed nationally. Curricula would be gradually improved by
regionally based Cameroonian-USAID teams working under the supervision
of DEPM at the central level, with inputs from a Bank-financed education
specialist in DPE. The USAID program would also develop teacher
training software, for which a doubling of the operating budget of the
three Bank-financed ENIAs has been included in the project (para ?.23).
3.4.      The project would finance (a) construction, architectural
fees, furniture and equipment for the three ENIAs; and (b) 12
staffmonths of consultant services for assisting the DEPM in the primary
teacher training study. To ensure that the new ENIA facilities will be
operated with optimal efficiency, during negotiations, Government gave
assurances that it will implement the study's agreed upon proposals when
the three ENIAs open. To ensure close coordination with the primary
teacher development program being financed by USAID (Annex 2-6,
para 10), the Government gave assurances that it will prepare and submit
to the Bank an annual report on the status of that program; this report
would serve as a basis for exchange of views leading to an agreement on
the proposed new teacher training programs by PY3 and their
implementation in the Bank-financed facilities within 12 merfhs
thereafter.
3.5.      To improve the quality of instruction in secondary technical
education and thus upgrade the practical skills of the graduates, the
project would support the Government's plans designed to renovate and
maintain existing workshops and equipment (para 2.9). It would
rehabilitate and reequip training facilities in 10 schools, totalling
more than 6,000 students: two upper secondary technical schools (Lycees
techniques in Douala and Bonaberi), two lower-upper secondary technical
schools (Kumba and Bafoussam) and six lower secondary technical schools
(CETICs in Yaounde, Ebolowa, and Ombe, CETI in Yaounde, and CETIFs in
Yaounde and Akwa-Douala). This program would be similar to one
completed for six technical colleges with the support of the European
Development Fund (FED). It would rehabilitate most of the oldest
secondary technical schools (some over 30 years old) and upgrade the
workshop facilities and equipment, including accessories and tools, for
13 selected technical courses. A maintenance program would be
introduced. Since outputs in industrial disciplines at the upper
secondary technical level are especially limited, support to the largest
industrial lycees, located in the most industrialized area of Cameroon,
is also expected to bring about substantial qualitative and quantitative
improvements at the industrial technician level. The project would
finance civil works (minor repairs and utilities), the provision of new



- 11 -
equipment in all 10 schools, and structural extensions in two schools.
The financial plan includes provision by the Government of adequate
recurrent funds (para 3.23). Annex 3-1 gives details on this
rehabilitation program.
3.6.      Management of education.  To increase the overall efficiency
of the education system, the project would strengthen and develop the
Ministry of National Education's institutional capacity with respect to:
(a) data collection and analysis, policy formulation, overall
educational planning and programming; (b) budgeting, planning and
management (including maintenance) of the technical education subsector;
and (c) project preparation, implementation and evaluation. To this
end, MINEDUC's Educational Planning Division (DPOS), Directorate of
Technical and Professional Education (DETP), and Education Projects
Directorate (DPE) would be substantially reinforced, a capacity to carry
out in-depth studies and surveys would be created, and an extensive
staff development program would be carried out by a team of national and
expatriate specialists (paras 3.17-3.18). This would be achieved
through a comprehensive program, integrating specialist and consultant
services, fellowships abroad and local seminars, as described below.
3.7.      DPOS would follow-up on the Unesco sector review (para 2.5)
with specific surveys and would develop a system to ensure the timely
processing of pedagogical, administrative and financial data. The
surveys would serve as a vehicle for the staff development program,
which would involve all levels of MINEDUC's planning staff. A
specialist in education finance would, on the basis of the sector survey
recommendations, develop procedures to improve budget preparation, with
particular emphasis on recurrent expenditures. The project would
finance 96 staffmonths of specialist and consultant services, 103
staffmonths of fellowships for professional staff, and 128 staffmonths
of local seminars for planning and statistical support staff, as well as
furniture and equipment for DPOS.
3.8.      The capabilities of DETP would be reinforced to provide (a)
comprehensive and accurate data on technical school facilities and
staff; (b) a system for evaluating existing courses and a methodology
for continuous instructor training and upgrading; (c) mechanisms to
strengthen the ,inkage between technical education and employment
opportunities; (d) a capacity for resource planning and management; (e)
a preinvestment study for new training facilities in three secondary
technical schools in Edea, Bonadoumbe and Nkongsamba; and (f) the
effective operation of a newly created maintenance unit with four local
specialists to implement a maintenance program and carry out a
preinvestment study for a permanent purchasing/maintenance system for
technical and science equipment. The project would finance equipment as
well as 102 staffmonths of specialist and consultant services and 102
staffmonths of fellowships. The appointment of the four local
specialists to constitute the core staff of the maintenance unit would
be a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.9.      DPE, which is responsible for the implementation of this
project and for the preparation of future education projects, would be
reorganized and strengthened with additional staff and technical



- 12 -
assistance. To assist DPE in carrying out its nationwide
responsibilities, the project would finance equipment as well as 180
staffmonths of specialist and consultant services and six staffmonths of
fellowships. To ensure the timely start-up of the project with a
stronger Education Projects Directorate, effectiveness would be
conditional upon signing of a decree organizing and expanding DPE and
the staffing of the Directorate with qualified and experienced personnel
in sufficient numbers. Details on the technical assistance recruitment
procedures are given in para 3.18. The table below gives a summary of
the specialist services and fellowship/training inputs to be provided to
the Ministry of National Education. Annex 3-2 provides an
implementation schedule for the above technical assistance and training
services, and Annex 3-3 gives a more detailed description of the
objectives to be achieved through these services.
Summary of Specialist Services and Fellowship/Training
Inputs for the Ministry of National Education (MINEDUC)
(in staffmonths)
Primary and
Maternal     Tech. & Prof.    Educational       Education
Education      Education        Planning        Projects
Directorate    Directorate       Division       Directorate
(DEPM)         (DETP)           (DPOS)           (DPE)
Specialists            -              72               60             156
Consultants           12 a/           30               36              24
Fellowships            -              102             103               6
Local Seminars         -              -               128               -
a/  Discussed in para 3.4.
2.   Increasing the Relevance of the Vocational Training System
3.10.          Support for development of CENAFOP.  To support the
Government's planned expansion and improvement of the vocational training
subsector, the project would support the National Center for Adult
Vocational Training (CENAFOP), which has been the catalyst in the effort to
cope with the modern sector's ever increasing demand for skilled workers
(paras 2.12-2.13). The project would help CENAFOP to: (a) make its
training more relevant to the needs of local industry and employers by
improving the training staff's ability to identify new skill requirements
and to translate them into appropriate courses; (b) adequately equip its
new workshops; and Cc) lead the development of a national network of
vocational training centers. This involves: (a) promoting a closer
participation of employers in the management of CENAFOP and in the design
and implementation of training and skill upgrading programs; (b) assisting
in the improvement of existing vocational training centers and in creating
new ones; (c) proposing training programs for the trainers in other
centers; and (d) contributing to the development of norms and regulations
for the vocational training subsector. In addition to equipment for



- 13 -
CENAFOP's new workshops, the project would finance 174 staffmonths of
specialist and 39 staffmonths of consultant services for staff training and
the development of training programs and methodology, and 128 staffmonths
of fellowships for CENAFOP's staff development program (para 2.13).
3.11.          Management of vocational training.  The project would
provide assistance to the Directorate of Manpower, Vocational Training and
Projects (DMOFP) in the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (MTPS) to
strengthen its planning capacity and the management of training resources.
In order to develop capabilities for accurately assessing the country's
skilled manpower needs, formulating a comprehensive strategy for the
subsector, and improving its linkages with the labor market, the project
would concentrate on three key areas: (a) DMOFP's Manpower Sub-Directorate
would be reorganized and adequately staffed to undertake manpower surveys
and establish a viable permanent data base; (b) the Vocational Training
Sub-Directorate would be reinforced in the areas of planning, curricula and
staff development, institutional management and performance evaluation; and
(c) DMOFP would be reinforced to support these activities and to initiate
and supervise a series of preinvestment studies, and to prepare and
implement projects. The studies would provide the rationale for the
rehabilitation of existing CFPRs (para 2.12) and the establishment of eight
additional CFPRs, the development of an apprenticeship system, and the
creation and initial operation of an autonomous Office of Manpower and
Continuous Training, with a view to eventually undertaking a free-standing
vocational training project under Bank financing.
3.12.          The project would finance 144 staffmonths of specialist and
consultant services to conduct on-the-job training for DMOFP staff,
organize surveys, and carry out preinvestment studies, as well as 137
staffmonths of fellowships for DMOFP staff. Furniture and equipment would
be provided for logistical support. The table below gives a summary of the
specialist services and fellowship/training inputs to be provided for the
MTPS component. Annex 3-4 provides an implementation schedule, and
Annex 3-5 a summary of specialist services and fellowships for the Ministry
of Labor and Social Welfare.
Summary of Specialist Services and Fellowship/Training Inputs
for the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (MTPS)
(in staffmonths)
National Center for         Manpower, Vocational Training
Adult Vocational Training        and Projects Directorate
(CENAFOP)                         (DMOFP)
Specialist                   174                               96
Consultant                    39                               48
Fellowships                  128                              137
3.13.          To equip DMOFP to play an expanded role as proposed under
the Project, Government recently (April 12, 1985) assigned to DMOFP full
responsibility for implementing the MTPS components, and reinforced it by



- 14 -
the creation of a project unit (cellule des projets). Details on the
technical assistance recruitment procedures are given in para 3.18. A
condition of loan effectiveness would be that the Government has appointed
a competent accountant for the project unit.
B.   Project Cost and Financing Plan
3.14.          The total project cost (net of taxes and duties) is
estimated at US$61.2 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component
of US$32.6 million equivalent, or 53% of the total cost. Base cost
estimates are in end-1985 prices; Government intends to exempt the project
from taxes on construction, equipment and services; since the residual
taxes would be negligible, they have been excluded from the cost
calculations. Government did not opt for cofinancing of the project.
Therefore, the proposed Bank loan of US$30.1 million equivalent would
finance the estimated foreign costs (except for recurrent expenditures).
It would be for 20 years, including a five-year grace period at the
standard variable rate. The Government would finance the remaining US$31.1
million equivalent. Annex 3-6 gives the major assumptions in arriving at
the project cost estimates. Annex 3-7 details costs by component and
category, the local and foreign breakdown of costs, and the financing plan
(breakdown of summary accounts). Annex 3-8 shows unit areas and unit costs
for the new institutions.
C.  Project Implementation
1.   Preparation, Management and Institution Building
3.15.          Project preparation was carried out by the Education
Projects Directorate for the MINEDUC component (paras 3.3-3.9) and by the
Directorate of Manpower and Vocational Training for the MTPS component
(paras 3.10-3.13) under financing from the Third Education Project (Loan
1245T-CM). Most of the preparation work was completed before negotiations.
Detailed working papers are available for each project component. Most
preliminary documents for construction, equipment, and technical assistance
arrangements were reviewed with the Government during negotiations in order
to ensure a smooth start-up and avoid the delays experienced in previous
projects (para 2.15).
3.16.          Project management.  Similarly, with a view to facilitating
administrative and financial procedures and to building up strong project
monitoring and evaluation capabilities, the MINEDUC component would be
managed by the existing Education Projects Directorate (strengthened to
cope with this componentts complexity), and the MTPS component would be
managed separately by the Directorate of Manpower and Vocational Training,
also to be st-angthened. During negotiations, assurances were received
that, the project would be implemented, following arrangements agreed upon
during preparation. Annex 3-9 provides details on the project management
arrangements.
3.17.          Institution building.  In order to build up a permanent
national capability in educational planning and management, the project
features an integrated staff development program, comprising for the
MINEDUC component 32.5 staffyears of technical assistance (46% for project
management alone), 17.6 staffyears of fellowships and 10.7 staffyears of



- 15-
local seminars, and for the MTPS component 29.7 staffyears of technical
assistance (60Z for CENAFOP alone) and 22 staffyears of fellowships.
Although large in absolute amounts, this program should be viewed in
relative terms: the technical assistance would be deployed within six key
institutions under two very large ministries and over a five-year period.
It is deemed to represent the critical mass necessary to provide the
institutional mol.mentum requiired if the Government is to achieve its
ambitious but fully justified plans for the sector. The technical
assistance personnel would not substitute for local specialists; rather,
they would work in Integrated teams headed by Cameroonians, acting as
catalysts in a process combining on-the-job and formal training, developing
work methodologies and procedtures. Tt is expected that by the end of
project implementation the Institutions concerned could be largely
self-reliant, as n dvnamic development process will have been generated.
At the same time, implementation delays and cost overruns would be
minimized, resulting in substantial savings. To ensure that the technical
assistance focuses on activities fully in line with the project staff
development objectives, assurances were received during negotiations that:
(a) DPE and DMOFP will submit to the Bank for its review and approval semi-
annual training programs for their respective components; and (b) the
candidates for the fellowslip program will be approved by the Bank, and
upon successful completion of their studies will be employed for a minimum
of two years in the positions 1for which they have been trained.
3.18.          To create a synergy and ensure maximu  impact from the
start, special attention has been given to the preparation of detailed
terms of reference for the technical assistance which was agreed upon
during project preparation.  During negotiations, the Government and the
Bank reviewed:  (a) selection procedures, for internationally recruited
personnel for DPE, DPOS, DETP, DEPM, DMOFP and CENAFOP; and (b) detailed
arrangements for the fellowship program. In order to simplify and
accelerate the process, a limited number of recruiting agencies or
consulting firms have been approached; two of the three draft contracts
have been reviewed and Bank comments would be incorporated in the final
contracts. A condition ,"- loan effectiveness would be the signing of the
contracts and the selection )a candidates for the three key posts i.e. a
project manager for DPE, onre for DMOFP, and a specialist in methodology for
CENAFOP.



- 16 -
2.   Procurement
3.19.              The procurement arrangements are summarized in the table
below.
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(USS million)
(Amounts in parentheses indicate amount of IBRD participation)
C tegory                         ICE                LCB               Other          Total Costs
a            ~~~~b
Civil Works                     19.6 a/             3.4 -/             __                23.0
(5.9)             (1.0)              (--)               (6.9)
Architectural Fees               --                 --                 0.7  /             0.7
(--)               t-)               t--)               (--)
Equipment/Furniture             12.2 -              3.0 -              1.0              16.2
(9.8)             (2.4)              (0.8)             (13.0)
SpecialiGt Services              --                 --                10.1  /           10.1
C--)              t--)               (8.5)              (8.5)
Training                         --                 --                 1.8                1.8
C--)              (--)               (1.7)              (1.7)
Recurrent Costs                  --                 --                 9.4 it            9.4
C--              i-)                (--)              (--)
Total Costs                     31.8                6.4               23.0              61.2
(15.7)             (3.4)             (11.0)             (30.1)
a/   Civil works for the three primary teachers colleges would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) according to World Bank Guidelines.
b/   Civil works Eor the rehabilitation and minor extension of 10 secondary technical schools
would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank, since it is unlikely that contractors not already in the country
would bid.
c/   Site supervision part only of contracts awarded in 1983 and 1984 after local
prequalification (design work part financed under the previous project).
dI   Contracts with a value in excess of USS100,000 would be awarded through ICB according to
World Bank Guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference In
bid evaluation of 15% or the import duty, whichever is lower.
e/   Contracts valued at between US$50,000 and USS100,000 would be awarded through LCB
procedures found acceptable to the Bank, with a USS3 million maximut.
f/   Items below USS50,000 in value might be procured by inviting quotations from at least
three reliable suppliers whenever possible, with a USSI million maxinium.
|i  Specialists (about 62.2 staffyears) would be recruited following the Guidelines for the
Employment and Use of Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers.
hi  Training abroad (about 39.7 staffyears) would be procured following the above-mentioned
Guidelines for the Employment and Use of Consultants.
i/   Mainly salaries and consumables acquired through regular Government procedures.



- 17 -
3.20.          Bidding packages for civil works valued at more than US$1.0
million equivalent and bidding packages for goods valued at more than
US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review of the
procurement documents. This would result in the coverage of the three
major contracts of the 13 civil works contracts (about 85% of their total
value), and of about 75Z of the total value of the contracts for goods.
Smaller packages would be subject to random post-review by the Bank after
contract award.
3.   Disbursements
3.21.          The proposed Bank loan is expected to be disbursed over a
period of seven years as follows:
Allocation and Disbursement Categories for Bank Loan
Z of Estimated Total
Recipients     Cost to be Disbursed
Item             MINEDUC     MTPS      Total      from the Bank Loan
USS million---
Civil Works               6.3       --        6.3              30
Equipment/Furniture       9.1       2.7      11.8              80
Specialist Services       4.0       3.8       7.8              85
Training Abroad           0.7       0.9       1.6             100
Unallocated                1.9      0.7       2.6
Total           22.0      8.1       30.1              49
3.22.          All disbursements from the Bank Loan account would be fully
documented, except for contracts valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent,
for which expenses would be made against certified statements of
expenditure. Documentation would be retained for review by Bank
supervision missions and project auditors. In order to expedite
disbursements, two revolving funds, one for MINEDUC of CFAF 115 million
(US$300,000) and the other for MTPS of CFAF 75 million (US$200,000)) would
be established in Special Accounts to be opened in a commercial bank
authorized to deal in foreign tranuactions and can be used for all
categories of expenditures. Detailed description of methods to be used in
making payment out of the Special Accounts have been agreed upon at
negotiations. The Special Accounts would be replenished on a monthl2y
basis, or when the Special Account is reduced by a third, whichever iomes
first. The Special Accounts would be audited in accordance with provisions
of Section 4.01(b)(i) of the Loan Agreement. No direct payment
applications for less than US$$20,000 equivalent would be submitted to the
Bank. In the event that the Government decides to close the Special
Accounts, applications to the Bank would be grouped into packages of at
least US$20,000 equivalent for reimbursements and US$10,000 equivalent for
direct payments. The disbursement profile has been estimated on the basis
of general profile for Cameroon (IBRD and IDA), tempered by the
disbursement profile of the Third Education Project. The disbursement
profile is in Annex 3-10.



- 18 -
4.   Recurrent Cost Implications
3.23.          The project's annual incremental recurrent costs would
amount to about US$7.3 million (without contingencies), with the following
main items: (a) for the three primary teachers colleges, about US$0.3
million, representing more than the doubling of non-salary recurrent costs
to about 7Z of total recurrent costs; there would be no other incremental
costs, since administrative and teaching staff would be transferred from
existing colleges; (b) for the secondary technical schools, about US$2
million for operation and maintenance of the new facilities and equipment
financed under the project; this would represent a 3.5X increase over the
total 1983/84 recurrent budget for the technical secondary schools network;
and (c) for CENAFOP, aDout US$3.6 million to ensure proper operation of the
workshops and payment of additional salaries; this would represent a 65%
increase over the center's 1984/85 recurrent budget and is largely
attributable to expansion in progress outside the proposed project. The
remaining recurrent costs (US$1.4 million) would concern maintenance and
planning. Adequate provision has been included in the Government's
contribution to cover these costs.
5.   Auditing and Reporting
3.24.          For each component for which they are responsible, the
Education Projects Directorate (in MINEDUC) and the Directorate of Manpower
and Vocational Training (in MTEPS) would maintain separate accounts for the
Bank loan and for the Government's counterpart financing. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that (a) all project accounts
will be audited annually by Government auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b)
the Government will submit the accounts and the auditors' reports to the
Bank within six months of the close of the Government's fiscal year; and
(c) the reports of the auditors will be of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank might reasonably request. Audit fees would be financed by the
Government.
3.25.          To facilitate close monitoring of the project, the Education
Projects Directorate and the Directorate of Manpower and Vocational
Training would submit to the Bank, for each component for which they are
responsible: (a) semi-annual progress reports; and (b) within six months
of the Closing Date, a final report on the implementation experience and
project outcomes.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1.      Benefits. The project is expected to produce both short- and
long-term benefits. By improving the quality of primary education,
secondary technical education and vocational training, it would help to
meet some of the most urgent needs for qualified manpower of an expanding
economy while raising the efficiency of existing institutions. It would
also contribute to inc-easing labor productivity. For the longer term, the
project would strengtl- the planning, policymaking and management
capabilities of the two ministries concerned. While an improved capacity
for management is expected to minimize the risk of project implementation
delays and cost overruns, the strengthened planning capacity will help the
Government to tackle and prioritize education needs arising from high



- 19 -
population growth, rising student expectations, and more complex manpower
requirements of employers. This has become all the more critical as the
decline in Cameroon's oil revenues will be limiting the prospects for
additional resources for education and training.
4.2.      Risks.  The project has two major risks.  The first risk, in
light of past Bank Group experience in the sector, is that of
implementation difficulties resulting from weak institutions. To reduce
this risk, special attention has been given to strengthening the two
directorates charged with implementing the project; both would be provided
appropriate staff and technical assistance to ensure the timely
im'lementation of each component. The technical assistance contracts would
be signed as a condition of loan effectiveness. To ensure that the
technical assistance creates a local capability, rather than substitutes
for it, the staff development program would be closely monitored. The
second risk concerns a potential for rapid deterioration of the new
equipment for the secondary technical schools which could result from
insufficient maintenance.  This risk has been addressed through the
operation of a maintenance unit, within the Directorate of Projects School
Construction and Equipment, to initiate a maintenance program and undertake
a preinvestment study for the establishment of a purchasing and maintenance
system.
V. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1.      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a)  it will review with the Bank the study on primary teacher
training, and will begin implementing the agreed upon proposals
when the three ENIAs open (para 3.4);
(b)  it will prepare and submit to the Bank an annual report on the
status of the primary teacher development program being financed
by USAID, and the report will serve as a basis for exchange of
views leading to an agreement on the proposed new teacher
training programs by PY3 and their implementation in the
Bank-financed facilities within 12 months thereafter (para 3.4);
(c)  the project will be implemented according to the arrangements
agreed upon during preparation (para 3.16);
(d)  the Education Projects Directorate and the Directorate of
Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects will submit to the
Bank for its review and approval semi-annual training programs
for their respective components; and the candidates for the
fellowship program will be approved by the Bank, and upon
successful completion of their studies they will be employed for
a minimum of two years in the positions for which they have been
trained (para 3.17); and
(e)  all project accounts will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; the accounts and the auditors'
reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the



- 20 -
close of the Government's fiscal year; and the reports of the
auditors will be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
might reasonably request (para 3.24).
5.2.      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that the Government
has: (a) employed the specialized consulting firms or agencies to provide
assistance to DPE, DMOFP and CENAFOP, and selected the candidates for the
posts of project management specialists in DPE and DMOFP, and a specialist
in methodology for CENAFOP (para 3.18); (b) appointed a competent
accountant for DMOFP (para 3.13) and four specialists for the maintenance
unit in MINEDUC (para 3.8); and (c) taken all necessary measures to
restructure and staff its DPE to allow it to carry expanded
responsibilities (para 3.9).
5.3.      Subject to the above assurances, the project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$30.1 million equivalent to the
Republic of Cameroon.
WAPED
March 1986



-21 -                      ANNEX 1-1
CANEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
BASIC DATA
General (1985)
GNP per capita                        US$890
Land area                             475 km2
Population                            9.3 million
of which: urban                     37%
rural                     63%
Population growth rate                3.2%
Life expectancy at birth              53
Adult literacy rate                   about 20%
Enrollment in Education (1982-83)
Gross          Pupil/
Enrollment     Teacher
Total Enrollment    % Female    Ratio           Ratio
Primary                  1,535,582          45           78Z           50
Secondary
(General)               200,412           35          20%            29
Secondary
(Technical)              63,156           37           6%            25
Post-secondary              13,493         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
Education Expenditures (1982-83)
Total education expenditures:   CFAF 65,870 million
% of total Government budget:   3.6% of GDP
Percentage Distribution of Recurrent Education Expenditures (1982-83)
Primary                          41%
Secondary                        35Z
Post-secondary                   24%
Average Annual Cost per Student
% of GNP
US$ Equivalent      per Capita
Primary                                        50                  6
Secondary                                     325                 37
Post-secondary                              3,000                340
WAPED
March 1986



-22-
ANNEX 1-2
Page 1 of 2
CAMEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
1.        Recent trends in budgetary revenue.  The Government's budget
revenue has increased dramatically in recent years, from CFAF 213 million
in 1979/80 to an estimated CFAF 580 billion in 1983/84. This does not,
however, include revenues from oil proceeds; in the same year about CFAF
190 billion was tranferred to the Treasury from the Societe Nationale des
Hydrocarbures. Crude oil production in 1982, 1983, and 1984 amounted to
about 5.3, 6.2 and 8.0 million tons, respectively, corresponding to a gross
value estimated at US$1,370, 1,400 and 1,690 million, respectively. It is
estimated that the Government's net oil revenues fall within the range of
about one-half of the gross value of production. Oil production is
expected to peak around the mid-1980s at approximatively 8 million tons, to
decrease thereafter to 6 million tons by the early 1990s, and to dwindle
after the mid-1990s.
General
2.        The Republic of Cameroon covers 475,000 km2 (Map No. 18815R) and
has a population of 9.1 million (1983). Over 40% of the population is
under 15 years of age, and with the current 3.2Z annual growth rate
expected to increase, the population will almost double by the year 2000,
to about 16 million, more than half of which is expected to be urban. The
country enjoys a broad resource base, including a diversified agricultural
production, forestry, and minerals.
3.        Over the past two decades the Government has managed to create a
nation out of considerable ethnic diversity and diverging colonial
experience and to establish favorable conditions for accelerated growth.
As a result, real GDP increased by an average of 4.4% p.a. during 1971/76
and an estimated 10% during 1976/81. The Fifth Development Plan (1981-86)
envisages a 7% real growth rate, which although likely to be attained, will
fall to about 5% by the end of the period. Somewhat under the impetus of
the "oil boom", inflation is currently running at about 15% per annum.
4.        The Cameroonian economy is now experiencing rapid structural
transformations as a result of rising oil output and exports. Oil
production, which began in 1978, represented 78% of total exports and 15%
of GDP in 1984, thus assuming the role previously played by agriculture as
the country's main source of foreign exchange. Despite this new wealth,
the Government has continued to follow prudent fiscal policies, but
pressure is mounting for increased spending, notably in the social sectors,
which have lagged behind, considering the country's development level. In
addition, with oil production expected, the issue facing the Government is
to translate the transitory window of opportunity offered by petroleum
production into lasting growth and development.



-23-                    ANNME 1-2
Page 2 of 2
5.        This new affluence makes it possible to accelerate capital
investment well beyond the present 25% of GDP. However, unless preceded
and supported by a massive education and training effort to alleviate the
existing bottlenecks in absorptive capacity, a fast-expanding investment
program fueled by rising oil revenues could only result in low rates of
return, high inflation, disruption of the economic and social fabric, and
greater income inequalities. Even if the Government's public investment
program remains within reasonable limits, it is expected to expand and, at
the very least, will require a strengthening of the policy formulating,
planning, and project processing capacity. The need to prepare for the
post oil era makes careful design and efficient management of projects a
priority objective. It is therefore clear that, whatever scenario
materializes, human resources development holds the key to the country's
future.
6.        The Government is well aware of the human resources issue, and
accordingly in the Fifth Plan (1981-86) increased the share of the current
education budget to 8.8Z, from 5Z in the Fourth Plan. But it unlikely that
the investment proposals will be implemented because of the weak
institutional capabilities of the education sector, which are not
adequately addressed in the investment program. The mid-term review of
implementation of the Fifth Plan indicates that, of the CFAF 235 billion
allocated to the sector under the Plan, only CFAF 55 billion, or 23%, has
been included in the investment budget for the period FY82 - FY85. Of the
CFAF 17 billion allocated in FY82 and FY83, only CFAF 12 billion (70%) was
spent; this represents only 5Z of planned expenditure for the first two
years of the Plan.
WAPED
March 1986



-24-                     ANNEX 2-1
CAMEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
WAGE EMPLOYMENT GROWTH
1.        Wage employment in the modern sector, estimated at 430.000 jobs,
has increased at an annual rate of 5.9% since 1976.
Wage Employment Growth by Sector (1976-1981)
Primary             Secondary            Tertiary             Total
75,000               45,000               15,000              135,000
6.1% p.a.            7.5% p.a.            5.9% p.a.
Assuming a similar rate of modern sector employment creation through the
1980s, a total of 300,000 new jobs are projected to materialize by 1990,
20" of which will require a qualification equivalent or superior to lower
secondary technical education level.
2.        The current output of the secondary technical schools provides
less than half of these requirements and only one-sixth of the sector's
annual needs in the industrial disciplines.
Current Annual Requirements and Output in Qualified Personnel
(1983)
Total Technical          Industrial
Requirements           School Output         Disciplines Only
12,000                   2,800                   1,900
WAPED
March 1986



-25-                                                                          ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 2
CAMEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
February 12, 1985
namonspum  zmm"no
=mm"= RECURNM    AWLT                          UTE. mm                      COST pulas
ow PM                     FERcwr    LTMMZTMM, LITERAff  MINART paimmiRT    FNDIPAT  PRIOKff    RATZ VNON    BEOMMU  SWORART :TCWM
am        NW.  CAPITh  rcocwr Gm  TOTAL CLVrRAL ALLBOLTID in  ItATZ           EMOLL. Soon           STOOmns               PittRW    70  ENROLL.   STUDENTS    POLL.
TIAR wnm. lose)   0990=    To  ommmm                PRI  sac  91    M         ItATIO   CTCLE        m            PCMZNT Sacommalry    RATIO        m          RATED
(39") C1979)    ZDV.MOII aptnaTm                    (2)        (1976)   CT)          (2)      TZACRA                     (2)        (1)      TIA13191t    (Z)
(1)      (2)        (3)                           CS)          (6)        (7)       (0)        (9)        (la)          (11)        (12)        (131    (34)
KWKWO CMMZO.
,:270                                                            inlpL     100         21        -                          73         13       20.10
=    A-LIA          SI    23.7b    630b    7.7a            IGJNF       MST 3"T 23ST   ggb           latm      100         21         39.9-1       100
ownwer P.R.         79    61.2  12.200        6.6           9.41                           "b        896      1w          -          -            aw-           a"                 12.102
merpow.4=           yo    l"    I  490        7.9                      zo-  ;,-  z-s       90,11     96        95,         in        I 5.3                      el        13       12.40
W       3.2b  ::omlb    S."                        37   31   28       906      jgm        Ion         24        11.4          InD          el         13      2s.firma,
=Anum               yo      4.3  12.230       4.0          34.2        IT   in   ifo       ggb       99M      100          Ina       19.4         lm            I'to      1097    36.30"
M       -mich  82   I.Ob  T"b  -                           -            AO 21  It  62%   a,    Be                          32    23J               26           -         2i    -
sommi               of      4.2      23S      WIN,         16.11       43   Zs   27        .13       29-       35         37         20.2          12            in       II        1.00
colomm              00      0.61,   zoo       &.11,        25.4        an   286  S&        -                   65          44        16.0          sa           Zi-       30        1.40
13.9                           to                              40        G7.11          40          In         14        OA"
Ditsoun                                                                "    Z's            53        42        v,         63         39.3          *38                    44        0.6s
rmonA                         11     iiih    2.4,          33.7        4,                                                                                       1.
K1WTA               am    "..b    &29b    5.70             3A.311      63   is            4.82,     III        is         36         14.4          35           In       .16        -
2     1.6b      470      S.$         l4k.0        lb   iz   26       st"      lie        As          is         9.6          46           21        .11       1.30
UW"m                a                330      4.00         24.0        33   25   It       30         gabu      31         55b,       A.0           W            16       1.3        3.10.
"Alg                I      :,Ib     230b    3 5           I 1.4       la   34                       62        21         411         1.8          12            A        2 1       o.A0
MAM                 13      1.0b    I?Ob    4:3             4.01       "    36    7       omb        93        72         :3         13.0         too           10        22        I"
21.5        72   if   12       37%                  41.        60         13.0          to                     14          an
.17"C"                22AO   34. 33m LOG  -                               -           25    -                 -                      -    -
at      6.3      200        3         10.          "b  "b   Ob    30b           22b        801,       ZOb        9.0b          401,        32b       zz         1.00
so    A.2b    mm          3.0         -            16%                32        'I.2       &A         14         I .&          44                     116      ...
43      0.7b    Nab    3jiPb          2D.A         St   la   is       Sb       93         so        .13        [1.0           in          le        is         3.00
mLqr.&WU            so      6.3      260      1.0           7.7        47   10   I&        79b       IRb       By         43         13.0          lob           3        JOS,      0.20
1                                                                    h.       61          34        -             17            5        23        0.60
no    Iz.06      3mb    -                          231, Vb  20
VW                  SI    20.81,   210b    7.7             2G.A        -    -      101'   141'       16        21         In        .11.0          .0           IN        28        2."
zoola               Be      5.711   SGG       6.5p         HJ          411  23   22        "b        95        so         49         Iz.4          to           16        =2        J.SO
219MAIM             as      7.76    700:    5.1            14.31       62   32    6       "b         in        51         30        20.0           as           Is        23        ajo
VMrW-A?R=
IMF-                79      3.6b    320b   fiiw            33.0        43   21    I    lib           42        30                    14.0          30           31        AS        lAft
G.,      210b    Z.1"         zi.7         43   21   ZX       0         16         23         17        21.3           Is           3        24        0.03
M ai                1.3     4.2      S"       1.9y         16aw        338  430, 200   -             74.       4u         30.        ti.s.         20-          14.       26        1.30.
CA.R.               79  2.3!  2RO  3.0"    20.607,   -  -  -   -                                     -                    GS-7   -                 -           -          -         0.1n..
CRO                 76      4.4      120      2.Aft"       2A.7b       -         -     -  Is        251,                  77                       -             3"       21        0_-n.
5     610      0.00"        17.7aj,                                                         sab-                    30           --        43b.      4.fma.
71     .1 -A   3.420      ]Jbr         AV                                                            44br                    -            -         leby      2.400.
IMIA                n      lo.&      22o      IjOw          G.Sb       44   23.   Go   Inb           4010V     90-        27b.          7.         40           12b-      I 7       -
76  J1.3  4m   4ir    15.3b    -  -  -   -                                      7I b"   -             zib.                    -            "bar  21    -
5.3      200P                              21.  24.          zn         34        ih          31        Zn.           81           16        20        7.00,
41      I.2b  1.070b   04:,,,Op                    33   46   Be'   3nb          60        06          411                      47          l5ana    26          I.QD"
Uh             so                32n      4.A                      Al   23   24                 52        32          33        2(1           76           22        20        2.4n
le       Ab                                                                     10                                                                             0.911"
09                   a      1.0      I"       41           2110        3n   21   aI    .0                     f-D                   13:7                                  is
UNW.RITANIA         79      1.16"    330b    SJ            16.9        33   43   25    37b           32       fin         44        U."            la            9        25        0.37
ye     3.2       300      &-UT        36.607       SZE  43.   Ss    a           17        560         41.       la.,.         &n            2        216b      0.20.
urctm               77    92.6       914      4.17          9.6                                                                                                 in"       Zs        0.177
sommAL              77      1.3      410      5.0         23.0               34   20    so          34buy    -            43b!l                                to         21        2.20b.
fMPA L             77      23.A     210      1b           16.1310                        I-lb       37o       -          35        II."b          U            15-       22        oAob.
74       .4     400                   26.34        30*  211*  21.   19          76        AD          34107     38.0          S2           321hv    48b        I Aft.
WJ00                                                                 :3b        98        52          17
&.4w    ..220      2.7         10.9         43m  Ma  12.                                                               a?           31         a          AO
74     31    1_1,70                                                                                   24                      97           75
J:;..       1,.J.        an,  1.   ..       b
78                                                434   L.  .                  .;:,       to*        27.        39.94         1%           lay       zey
a           30 S'    -  -  -   63                     747                   30Y    -                -            ISY,   -           12.60V
i"          0.2        31          la    76         73                   z3aw       4.3b
MIRL                to   1121    I.;;8        3                                                                                                   41-          is"        14"      1ZA2b
76    14.9 "                 by       13.0         -          -      -         11 baw                 3&b?      -             -            13bw      20by    2 3 .0011a,
O LZA               MD    36.7bI                           23.0        is   20   20    sib           79        36         32         6.6           -           AT         20       lsioa.
W     s=            40      2.2 I             6.A          33.3        40   IT   "       90          03        77         33         3.3           77                              14.00
78       ..               .1          11.0         -        -     -  96        112h"      go          imby      -                          7lbEr    I 3       ItAz%w
IV.    so        1.3    1          2.4         13.4         39   21   22    64           gn        31          39         3.2          94           30        33       16.W
W NW                so       .6b   .M         6 a          M.?         45   31   16    4 1         103         -          36        1z.b          lkfi         47         is       29.00
77     4.4      "D        3:&C.       23.1b.       66    a   27    16Z          x2ft"     3'.         3-                      4 S          JAbr    27b.        Y.*Gb-
79     6.2   1.010        I.Imv       12 Ab        -                            4obW      -           Isb-                    69           lsb-      job-      S.Vi.
76        A     63D       9.1 bw      13.41W      -                             "b-       -          32h.                     -            30bilF    -         3.Onb-
W       50.01,   230      360,        7.9ar       65    9    6    23b          10        20         41         11.0          624           &a       27        nis
71I    3.6       S=       3.5by       14.3b'       62m  13a  19.   60           sob"      xim         &lk.      IZ."          Gas          a;_-      14        4.mw
JAWCB               W       2.4   1.110       6.3          13.7        37   43   20    90           94                    60         2.3           95          el         za        I .09
ow(D                SO    63.3   148"         4.1          17it,       416  30   is    92                      53         Ag         9.5           86          11         17       10.3n
OWALqmu             74   2.610  106   3.Obw   16.06,   -  -  -   to                                 S"m   24              37b    -                -                       Nib   -
bI                                     420  lie  13    92b           13b.      -          25by      I 1.6          050         3w         zybw    20.4010?
79      1.0       Mb    5.01          zjxbw
;=     v            74      3.0      1.40     I.W          14.2        62   17   ZO    FA           83         32         21         ].If          79          29         12        0.70
33   13   1 9    so          43        56          39         9.m          so           39        2-1      I ,.407
1.11   J.910      1:40W        11 bl,           12   20    es                     I 1        30         it, .5?       41           62        24
72      2.0   2.500                     .,b                          94        itiSba     -           24b                                  "ba       -        37.40aw
70    16.6   3.4"         1.11        36.910       -        -     -  92        106b. 2-1             24                                    31be      17       21.10.



-26-                                                         ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 2
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
February 12, 1985
IU.PUIIT U      uIIITAn                        CO L3T               mzT  T7r
IOU fbCAIbOU  RUUNT           *81a?             MAle POW             UIT  JT Pu17 A3 *
FUP. fli  TM                21311 CKTR    ALLOCLTn  fat RAT7       CRWOS         L     STODMIWTO    P IT7 I*   7217L                   STUC     *NLL.*
(1919  (2979)    mia           n7         7     (VZ        (1910    ()         (I)     TRAKE   nU  CITA          (2)         (I)  Tuu            (3)
TIM3 MDLI (535    539031         OO F" T         MU  lIC  IM!   (TI    RATIO   CTQ.          PER      Al P3303r IKUNNART   K4T1O         MS         RATO
(1)     (2)        (3)          (4) I3)                    (0) 7I             (8)        it)       (I0)         (1a)        (323      (13)    (14)
IT AIA  _I-  PACT  IM
aSI N3 Ii0S.On                     3300    3.3          7.1        3     02 *                 77 n      2         25         *..         a,          Is        17       *.80
7 _aEZ&           Sl  1s3.30    320        32          1.3        70T 2       0     320      is        *1         37       32.0 7a                   27       20        3.70
oa                 92 "Z.31  I5 1 &b    7.7           25.         30 34   31        *         9        is         03        a,.o        9n           50       33.    21.i
PuS.8             " u    13.2b  1J70    3.             22.7       39. 0    17.    70b         973      97         2.        13.3 '        0          72       2         4.00
PAM  JI.C.          3     3.oa    520       .0        3n.0        *0   17   2       -         50       135       3;1        15.0         30          1L       25        3 1.40
1JpPw              T9    4*.3.     of      Z_          14.0       0L   30   -       73b      *8        35         31         7.1         5           35       36       21.00
1         L.      50      2.0   **20       2.      7              39   40  21       43        92       32         32        5.           9           135      22        b.00
zu.mmIL           52      0.210 0u         A.PW       19.0        42   342 a        13        78       50         27       10.3          40          20       In        2.30
TmnA=              M     47.3b    723      3.4         20.9       SY   13   13      SOb       90       -          17        9.3          59          29       22        4.0
azNM               7_    92.30     so      l.la        4.W.      st   3720         221       037      -          s3         s.b         -           1a       23       13.3
milaN         55~~~~R  3.2     so     3.0         33.0         -3               0        12        ----                                                   -        -
ZIIIA              T     .1.. A   210      2.          4.y        -       -  -      36 =9.             -          al       -             -           280      -         0.31.
La               .*z    33 .0k    a        1.A       -                              39        70       -          35       -             -           21       23         .71P
PMIsTA           * u     17.12b    2       2.0          7.0 3e    20 z              22        s0       41         30         3.9         %           21        is       3.0
OPE  31253  UZT San?   AURICb
870355337*5        *7 377   3              1.7          3.-       7 7   19  I1      12        3130     09         370      -             *2           a       22_.    1.0
79    10.3   t.77       3.5        13.3        30*20a.    is                3-      as.        317       7.0.         SS.         29       20        3.70.
T"         Z                *3       0  * .-w           7.9       31.  33.  2.    40          13-       oft       %4a       9.4.         SU          03.      19o      17.00
a3                 l              .140     2.1P        10.4e1     37   2    21      -         97b.     -          290        0.27        -           Tabs     270,    27100,
law_ 79    2.9                    -        3.7*_ 14.1.9           -    -    -       30       &l.- -               3.       -             -           "4.x     20.       4.10*
79  12.0  2.730    *                                      . -Ur    0.9..   -  -  - -        LODY    -            25    -                -           434y   2.    'J0.
s1 1a 51                  3.0b 0    I)     0.347      1.7         -        -     -  is        43       90         29       -             93          I I      20       13.0
-iomm              *I     2.20  1.420    4.95          10.2       19         IR a   7b       too-3     45         3          7.1.        9 1         *92       23      191An
LOIII             7   2 3  -    -  tO.0W  -                                -       -         lb.   -             29    -                - *t5   -    27.4007
Imoo=               0    19i.3    708         .3       3.31        20 4      20     23        Sh4w     35         19        34.1         30          23'      21        4.30
::-S               92     O *      0.9  23 zS          12.1.      -     -     -     30b?      71.      03         a5                      s 9        1         30
z5 a               19i    9.7 .  ZOO       3.0         22.2       303Z     1       71        97       20         U'.       I2:.3        a"          431       17.      5.o.
7                                   say         -    -                    30        -          2370                   95                   22b      104017
SPUN                SAJH         :- 3                                        * Ie90.                              29b       -             -7b.                -        24.200,
3m5                75     :A    1.270      &.Go         20.3           253          3         479      45         330 -b    _3                       O        'lb      12.610
1W953              7T     A-  1.130        7.OP        39.0       02  39 3          020b     1200      s0         39b       12J1          0          lo%      20        GA0o
?Bu               al  * .70 2.40    3.1               20.2        -    - -          73       1_KR       0 .       21        7.i    e      2          20       20        0.10
TM"      .          0S.    A'   *2          .0w        12.0       90    7    a      210Z      27       12.        3J'       1.0          es           3       20       ItO
TM   .l.t.         32     2.00    420b    7.            9.F7      03.  1"   as    33          G3 *1               25         2                       3 t7     20        2.30
_   *051.3 C.in531.sn                   50             i3       70   09   07      al       92       fil         Os       53            73          9        0        aS
S_351                                   (1t.-          (3.1-  (19-  (7-  (3-    (3-      (12-      (12-        (1T-     (3.0-         (10-        (2-      (K-      (013-
ID.)          10.3)  90)   40)  131 3      199   191        )         71)        01.0)        l00"       AL)        11)    29.0)
Os.s.Ilmt_DPPn                           3.A           23.1 7    3   36   22      at        on       s0         03       20            Sy          47       2b       11.0
2514.3                       *.0           10.1      032519           33        33      60          35        13           05          20        22       3.7
LOVDn                        3.0           31.0      35 21  13        25    * 0           33        2n         I           40          24        19       1.0
50    2  US                              1.3            3.0    *.3  7.3  0.3   23.0       29.n     22.3         .S      3.0          23.5       1a.s       3.5        3.0
I55                                      0.0           1.3           23     7     33       71        39        N3        14            01          31       23        A.9
33-4543. 51.51.5                         1.9            5.7     13   10    7      29        27       25         11       13            23          23        7        7.
U*92                                     0.0           10.1      032319           33        83       01         33       13            63          20       22        2.7
-iue on OR            I   ox                                 A -Un,    *n KeUIN  7nt   SBAE TEA                T - Mg AM WATE 009n3  0N.Y
.. 3013  aUsM                                                 K -  e83  P9031           T             U     /      VC CJ - POuIC upmmnIug 3351
T - aumm So00
I ml 2t    . cd               l...or en  .1.1..
Cole 3a 13   o  14  51no 9imi   . 0.v...z 5ur.9  .541. Dersta Stecrotitel Tear0k.
cr1.r. .  _ mesew. r  do _e.1. 4o          pr..en dA. .5ess_ow15s  c*ome._ _ .05.24 be 47 c10d aIth  rm.t e.s1..  Ra_e 33   w.s.    Is t00 A                    .0tbe u.59
4.4 302314.  a.d. W110la 21.135. to C05k10.gls .w.m.4 of s the      . WoSmts.a  ..sO daI. am etU  2m.rf.CC to -"=I4 3-mmsc  mod the Mama0 le ..019  to
(2)  -58      _te    M daln  lete tale Smgadm SU=  adeclon  -d *Ed^. both for"_  mg mon-fare.
(2) _Prl=        * _t l=  Gf1t MP_ _d -bMSt~ Mt th  *1114lma OW -tcam     odCtl0  T_S C   1-_1 odCt_mt LMmamdxvl"                                _ lv  at, tt_
(3) -Utew  com             feel. *) am ofem  bt   e  _ro  comer   amoes_1. amay Couctes tl-  *em  _1t owelealm     _ It 1.  _T%tu  tbst  _w tnW
oiLs_ at -U_-e             _w Gav   11midm "tt
t6   -Pm    ap"wo inemot                   (Can.  * a"^ 3) fd    to AUS emlt    an  rov      t  -me"tere_ dwate  to iodatlan by PAU    an   _*_4<mmlt
tSl_RI_ 'awUm  we_t          (sl.  S.2 Md 14)  r r to  d_17l To    _war  th-  rai _ce    of *1ws1-bl  ekha5r _Rlled faI-elm  s_ On  eprmla    schol
_n    LG.nremic_l opltu   MO emalmm)   1*  * _ ot  zfigee f t1gmeatly  m blM  tbaq tie memep of muw   eto j,i  eeL                                            m-d
4 tude __aEJ et  Waft Sils", So Sml  EW  _p lomt        m  cm_e AJU     co cm".
31.  9. 991U59?             055.54.210  uss             1.ml.i.1t    2.44  119  45  1511553  411.19.ssi   0k.3I   1



-27-                                       ANNEX 2-3
CAKEROON/CAMEROUN
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT/
PROJET 1IDUC'ATION ET FORMATION  ROPFwSSIONNELLE
STRUCTURE OF TUE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEMWSTRUCTURE DE L'ENSEIGNEM T ET DE LA FORMATION
,mowlMucinDiia.m-aim.  ur. uT@ui. oaa. mii
o e OWoU OECElVlE-D   r. U1L ,  OU        E
I ~  ~     ~     1 2            1233 4   14  u^co
~_.,                                                      UIIVi.re,~m               m E    I
_A_,^ ILr
;       ~    SSC                                     CTZ    UC
U~~~~~~~~~~~mrLr.                  D    .     UC
;  ,,,  ~~~~9AAL. C.AF4 L-                                i
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~prI   E}{  .  ..
ur~~~~~~~~~oMBMuou  LtIC.k AO
0~fl^ aKHOOU'GME                                              1Z_ur         + a
<~~~~~~~A                              -0X~ I X Ial *            "w .
CT.TC~~~~~~~~~~~~ A.CST L TT.C    o E
VINW L bXCATOB                                 15    LA       2. NM.
Vt~~~~~VU
--~~~~~~OCMR -jCf- -       OL_



ORGANIGRAMME DU MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE
D6cret No 84/10S4 du I8AoOt 1984
I -SERVICES CENTRAUX
-  -~~~M"1                         -M
II. SERVICES EXTERIEIRS ET ETABLISSEMENTS SCOLAIRES
v I
0I1
CAI. 0 ~ ~ ~~*9*
;l ;;;l l 112isi T S$vX;inX C;B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .711-1
j nh h 1X S  i t  1St 11tCt X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_
I | 0 ij i    ES1g i j i!Wb11 |lsillMM



gMCTIaUL A  VCATIOUL TUN1lS  IrIJKCTJMWn  UCA?IN 1? SuanCE 1WFlS8LZ
INIcSm  OF lASo  - DCO          or O ANNuE AM VOCATIOL TUICINI  - OOIIICUI CLT/
Hill.IS l. NTWAVAIL - DIEXIuxD UR LA HAII-D O"       DS LA lUaIII   S       S I  - 
GrAit at Scrtaryl
Directorate of            __wLsistgati e r
m_   oesatioul Tira iI              _inanial services/
Directloo de la mi-                                          evie misaigtga- 
d'oeuvre at de la tnot mi                                   tit at fb_elerte
p oefs"tell                                             _____      
becetleml trfe4"  _d iVefehsiml
Sub-bhireucter/                                llJr  ne ble_et/                                                               Ottat/e tiom at etietatle
SoueO-reetloes                                 NalImeuwre aet  letai
Skvwicecs                                                                                                             gSrLetl  CUtraetel  lper statictlee/  padll &A   Pr.etmae ioul Outmatl_/i  
reopla                       Costnrts                    Stati *tiq    du 1                   tet_tle  at partect_                        t HIM&l PtOffcclkfll*
Immil aty e decc _I-
Offlcoa/       Ce .Is/        fteecte/ , Ceetr en/    _               ,    tstisticu/      _s.pmr sUmyji    Srrilee ef |           m  "a _d I                                      Di|ectiti
Bureaus        Ca~esaIi.m    trss            Ceras          Feir         IaiMqea          Eqie  urYttOa Tno'.   Trg. Courseel                        Poesea
I'....I             Cmcrersfco.:rd     =uI""  at oImi'ts1i@m/
Source:   Ministry  of  Labor  (Decree  No.  84/909  - July  26,  1984)/
Ministare  du Travail  (Decret  No.  84/909  -  26  juillet  1984).
0I



-30-                    ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 4
CAMEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION
1.        The growth of primary education in Cameroon over the past 25
years is characterized by:
(a) The creation and expansion of the public school system (see table
below).
Primary Enrollment Growth, 1958 - 1983
|,_    -"".L   OLH  OWLLr
-__-     _          
$A         64A                    7V= 
(b) Comparatively bigh enrollment ratios, with the notable exception
of the Northern Provinces (see table below).



-31-                    ARM  2-5
Page 2 of 4
Primary Education Regional Distribution
(1981/82)
Center/                                North-             South-
South     East     Coastal  North    West       West      West     lutal
Population
(6-11 yr..)      284,000   69,000   172.000   408.000  209,000  196,000  124,000  1,462,000
Enrollments      363,276   73,275   209,789   181,131  183,366  295.284  137,625  1,443,746
Gross enroll-
ment ratio         128      106       122         44       88       151      111
Index of region-
al variation      1.29      1.07      1.23      0.44      0.89     1.53      1.12
Net enrollment
ratio            84.4      69.5      87.4       28.2     70.8    101.7    100.5        78.0
kc) The apparent inability to improve the quality of primary
education services, as evidenced by the high dropout and
repetition rates (see tables below) and the poor pass rates (60S
of final candidates).
Primary Education Dropout Rate - 1975/76 to 1979/80
(in x of original enrollment)
Grade       1975/76   1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80
1           26.0      24.5        22.7       23.8        19.5
2            8.4       3.4         6.1        4.8         2.5
3           13.7      10.2        11.4       14.1        13.3
4            9.3        6.5        7.9        8.4         6.1
5            8.0       5.8         8.0       10.4         9.7



-32-
ANNEX 2-5
Page 3 of 4
Primary Education Repetition Rates - 1977/78 to 1981/82
(in X)
Grade       1977/78   1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82
1           34.3      35.6        36.7       35.2       34.0
2           25.1      26.3        26.1       25.3       23.8
3           27.2      30.4        32.4       29.8       29.3
4           21.2      22.6        24.3       22.6       22.4
5           23.3      25.5        27.8       25.8        26.4
6           35.5      38.1        40.5       37.9        37.5
7           14.7      14.3        12.9       12.8         9.4
2.   The deficiencies of the primary education system are largely
attributable to three factors:
(a) Inadequate educational planning capability and inappropriate
management structure--as reflected in the delayed publication of
education statistics (4 years) and consequently their limited use
and reliability for analysis and strategy planning-and the
cumbersome, highly centralized teacher-administered management
structure of the Ministry of National Education;
(b; Inappropriate curricula, exacerbated by the country's dual
(anglophone/francophone) system of education; and
(c)  Unqualified teachers (60% of the primary teaching force).
3.        The priority given by the Government to improving the quality of
primary education is reflected in its short-term startegy for the
subsector, which includes:
(a) Restructuring of the Directorate of Primary Education (see
MINEDUC Organization Chart, Annex 2-4) and strengthening of the
Ministry's Planning Division. The objectlves and rationale of
the reorganization of the Directorate of Primary Education focus
on achieving a closer coordination of the professional and
administrative functions within the Directorate, improving
communication and cooperation between related Ministry services,
and making the system more amenable to the infusion of better
qualified and specialized staff. The Educational Planning
Division will be provided with the capability and capacity to
effectively plan the quantitative and qualitatIve development of
the education system.
(b)  Introduction of the long-awaited educational reform, w.hich
provides for a compr0hensive primary school curriculum tbat
maintains only the dual medium of instruction and is better
adapted to students' needs; and mobilization of the Ministry's



-33-                    ANNEX 2-5
Page 4 of 4
resources to ensure generalization of the reform by 1989. The
new curricula was developed and applied in selected schools over
the past 15 years by the Curriculum Development Centers (IPARs)
at Yaourmd (French) and Buea (English) by highly qualified staff,
specifically trained for this purpose at Canada's Laval
University with Ford Foundation grants, and is at an advanced
stage of readiness (pre-publishing copy of student textbooks,
teacher guides and supporting teaching materials). The combined
resources of the IPARs, General Inspectorate, Directorate of
Primary Education, and Teachers Colleges (supported by
USAID-financed technical assistance) have been organized to
implement a program of in-service teacher training.
(c) Launching of a major primary teacher upgrading scheme which
includes the expansion and rationalization of training capacity
and facilities, the development of pre- and in-service training
programs, the restructuring of administration, and implementation
of an in-service training program for a teacher training staff,
regional inspectors, and school directors. (Details are in Annex
2-6. para 10).
4.        This strategy to improve the quality of primary education will be
financed by the Government (the 1984/85 education budget has been incr2ased
by 20Z over the previous year), USAID assistance (a grant of US$13.0
milllon and a loan of US$16.0 million) and the anticipated Bank loan
(estimated at US$9.0 million for components relating to primary educational
development). Bank assistance would focus on (a) developing an effective
educational planning capacity, particularly statistical services; and (b)
supporting the implementation of the educational reform and the upgrading
of the teaching force through the provision of three purpose-built primary
teachers colleges.
WAPED
March 1986



-34-                    ANNEX 2-6
Page 1 of 8
CAMEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER TRAINING
Primary Teaching Force
1.        The last official (published) data on primary school teachers
(1981/82) indicate that Cameroon has a teaching force of 28,585, of which
40% is qualified (11,490).
Primary School Teachers by Qualification
or Category (1981/82)
Classification            Number                z
Grade I a/                  2,594               9
Grade II a/                 8,853              31
Auxiliary Frs.              2,639               9
Monitor                     3,079               11
Aux. Monitor                8,606              30
Other                       2,814              10
Total                      28,585             100
a/   Only Grade I ("Instituteur") post senior secondary level and Grade II
("Instituteur Adjoint") post primary or junior secondary level
teachers, who have received some formal teacher training, are
classified as qualified and regarded as civil servants.
2.        The qualified teaching force is distributed unequally among the
provinces (see table on page 2). In spite of a deliberate policy of
posting newly trained teachers to the most educationally disadvantaged
provinces. Unfortunately, the policy has created a very mobile and
unstable teacher cadre who regard their posting to these areas as
temporary, and apply for a transfer as soon as the mandatory period has
been served.



-35-                    ANNEX 2-6
Page 2 of 8
Percentage of Qualified Teachers by Province
(1977/78 - 1980/81)
Province            1977/78       1978/79      1979/80       1980/81
South/Center a/       17.6          22.2         26.1          29.0
East                  22.1          26.0         33.8          36.0
Coastal               16.9          19.8         25.4          27.5
North a!              38.7          41.4         46.8          50.0
Northwest             74.7          70.0         67.3          65.3
West                   13.2         18.6         22.9          26.0
Southwest             67.7          65.0         59.8          56.8
Total                 30.1          32.3         35.3          37.4
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
a/   These provinces have since been sub-divided (August 1983): South and
Center, and three northern provinces with administrative centers at
Maroua, Garoua and Ngaoundere.
3.        There were 19 teacher training centers operating in 1983/84; five
opened in 1983/84 and an additional four are scheduled to open in 1984/85.
The apparent proliferation of these centers (see table on next page) is
part of the Government's policy to ensure a more equitably distributed and
stable teaching force in the more educationally disadvantaged areas. The
term 'center" instead of "college" is used, as only the three centers
constructed under the Second Education Project have basic training
facilities. One of these will be extended, and four of the others
extended/rehabilitated under the USAID project. The current total training
capacity is realistically estimated at about 3,000 student teachers (see
table on page 3), representing an annual output of about 1,500 teachers, or
approximately 60% of estimated needs. (See table on page 4.)



Institutions               1979/80                1910/61                 1951/82                 1982/83                1983/84
Location                       a IA   UT   Total   ENIA   U!   Total   MIA   a!   Total   CJIA   !NI   Total   1bIA  CU!   Total                                   "Go
Center/Centre
1.  Akonoling- -                                 -                                                                               38    -        38   Inadeqoute/!adtquat
2.  Safia                        49      _      49       49      -       49      43      _       43      74      -     74       136    -       136   !nadequate/tl  dIquat */
3.  Wgouuou                       -   206    206          _   217       217       -   171       171       -   212    212          -  229       229   !3adequste/!aadtlqut
4.  Taountd                     126      -    126       122      -      122       -      -        -     120    56    176        137   55       192   Inadequate/loadiquat
qoutb/Sud
5.  rbolowa                      65      -      65       64      -       64      51      -       51      75      -     75      122      -      122   Inadequate/tO ad4tUt
Kait/Zee
6   Abongmbeng                     -     -                                                                                      56      -       56  Iadequate/isadtquat
7.  Iertous                      66   147    213         69   130       249      96   197      293      138   212    350       130   149       279   Inadequate/Iudlquat
Coastal/Llttoral
8.  Ced                           49     -      49       30      -       50      46      -       46      78      -     78       136     -      136   Inedequate/!od4qvt
9.  Nkongemba                    90    76    166         86    76       162      80    82       162      76   111    187        99   110       209   Adequnte/AdUqate
Nortb/Ward
10. Caroua                        -   150    150          -   183       165       -   200      200        -   254    254         -   178       178   Adequate/AdIquate b
11. Maroua                      116      -    116       118      -      118    120       -      120     200      -    200      150      -      150   Iuadoquate/In dlqute ea       X
12. Ugaoundere                  110      -    110        86      -       66    112       -     112      149     -    149       146      -      146   loadequate/i  adqo t    I
13. Pito                         65      -      65       69      -       69      62      -      62       30      -     30      115      -      115    uwdweqwt/t/lua    wata .
Northtvet/Word-Ouest
14. BDsnda                       50    40       90       41    38        79      90      -       90     173    49    222       253      -      253   Insdequate/I- ddquate e1
West/Oueet
15. lafousee                     89    81    170         90    83       173      83   105      188       77   127    204        74   123       197   Inadequto/IradgqImta
16. Duebang                       -                       -                             -        -        -             -       36      -       36   Inadequate/ln dlquate
17. foumban                      62      _      62       65      _       65      47     -       47       69      _     69      128      -      128   !nadequate/!tadlquata
Soutvesut/Sud-Oueet
18. xuuba                        52    41       93       55    40        95      78    26      104      161    36    197       221    78       299   Adequate/Adlquate
19. Haufr                         -              -        -      -        -       -     -        -        -      -       -      37      -       37   Inadequate/thad4quato
Total                           989   741   1730        964   819    1783    908   781    1689    1420  1057   2477    2014   922    2936
_ ....   W~             -.   *....   ... . ..   ..   ....                                                .                                      ... I p.
422                    45S                     462                    42.6:                    312
o  1
a/ To be reconstructed under proposed lIbD project/econstruetion sur Oventuel projet IBRD.
/ To be extended (USAID)/Prolongation prrvue (UDATD).
e/ To be rehabilitated/eztended (USAID)/Rlhablillttlon/prolougation (USAID).



-37-                     ANNEX 2-6
Page 4 of 8
Estimated Additional Primary Teacher Requirements by Province
(1984/85 - 1989/90)
Province          1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   Total
South Center        689       643        769       834        906       985     4,825
East                129       121        144       157        170       185        906
Coastal             374       350        417       453        492       534     2,620
North               254       238        283       308        334       363      1,780
Northwest           259       242        289       314        341       370      1,815
West                518       484        577       627        681       740     3,627
Southwest           220       206        245       266        289       314     1,540
Cameroon         2,443      2,284     2,723      2,959      3,213     3,491    17,113
..mmm     ==.mmin    ==Mm                 mmm =.= mm   .nm m .
Note:   These estimates are based on the projected primary enrollment growth (1989/90)
produced by Ministry of National Education and a 50:1 student/teacher ratio.
These figures do not take into account the estimated 15,000 unqualified teachers
(60Z) of the teaching cadre) currently in the system.



-38-                   ANNEX 2-6
Page 5 of 8
Teacher Training Colleges Requirement for Entry and Duration of Traidning/
Ecoles Normales Qualification d'Entrle et Duree des Cours
Course Duration
(Years)/Durte        Education System/Systame d'education
Certificate/   des cours
Certificat     (Annie)              French/Francais       English/Anglais
CAPI                  3             BEPC                  GCE "0" 4 subjects/
GCE "O" 4 sujets
2                                   GCE "A" 1 subject/
GCE "A"' 1 sujet
1             Baccalaureate         GCE "A" 2 or more subjects/
GCE "A" 2 ou plus sujets
CAPIA                 3             CEPE                  Primary School Diploma/
Diplome d'etudes elementaires
1             BEPC                  GCE "0" 4 subJects/
GCE "0" 4 sujets
BEPC         - Junior High School Diploma/Brevet d'etudes du premier cycle
CAPI         - Highest Primary School Teacher Certification/Certificat d'aptitude
p$dagogique d'instituteur
CAPIA        - Second Level Primary School Teacher Certification/Certificat d'aptitude
pedagogique d'instituteur adjoint
CEPE         - Primary School Diploma/Certificat d' tudes primaires et elmentaires
GCE "0"      - General Certificate of Education, Ordinary Level/Certificat general en
education, niveau regulier
GCE "A"      - General Certificate of Education, Advanced Level/Certificat general en
education, niveau avance
4.        The courses leading to the CAPI and the CAPIA are shown in the
above table; three for the former and two for the latter. Lower entry
requirements to some of these courses vill be considered for remote areas
where qualified candidates are fever, under the USAID-assisted project.
5.        Between 1979/80 and 1983/84, enrollment on courses leading to the
CAPI, although erraLic, showed on upward trend and accounted for about 40Z
of total enrollment in the TTCs. (See table on page 3.) Further increase
in enrollment on these courses should be carefully controlled because of
the relatively high unit costs of training resulting partly from the higher
salaries trainees receive as students and, upon qualifying, compared to
what obtains in the case of the CAPIA courses.



-39-                     ANNEX 2-6
Page 6 of 8
6.        The administration of teacher training is the responsibility of
the Directorate of Primary Education (DEP) (largely restricted to staffing
and budgetary issues), with the General Inspectorate overseeing the
professional training aspects. The teacher training colleges are
semi-autonomous institutions linked by common traditional practices but
uncoordinated and varying widely in resources and efficiency. The recent
creation of a service for teacher training within the DEP is a move to
improve the coordination and supervision of teacher training activities and
development, but its functions, operations and procedures are not yet
defined. The administrative procedures used in the primary teachers
colleges are traditional operations limited to staff, financial and
regulatory issues and are inappropriate, cumbersome, time-consuming, and
devoid of elements supporting professional development.
7.        The "official" teacher training programs date from the mid-1950s.
Although there have been quantitative changes over the years to accommodate
shortened pre-service training and less academically qualified candidates,
the content and structure of these programs remain theory oriented and ill
adapted to the pedagogical needs of the pupils. The reduced institutional
status of pre-service training has placed responsibility for
student-teacher development and certification on the regional inspectorates
and school directors, neither of whom have the logistical means nor
training to accomplish these tasks effectively. In addition to the lack of
a coordinated program for pre-service training, in-service training is
provided on an ad-hoc basis and has never developed into a fully
integrated, continuous training program.
8.        The teacher training staff is recruited from two sources: (a)
experienced inspectors and senior primary school teachers (long on
experience and short on academic background); and (b) graduate primary
teacher trainers from the University School of Education (ENS), who regard
themselves as subject specialists. Consequently, there is no shortage of
professional staff in the primary teachers colleges, but rather a problem
of under-utilization of staff resources. Utilization of the professional
staff is dictated by traditional ground rules, which include: (a)
assigning a limited number of teaching hours to the "professors"; (b)
according priority and status to the academic/research rather than
practical hands-on activities of individual staff members; (c) rigid
structuring of programs into specific subject areas; (d) absence of
coordinating mechanisms to integrate staff activities and foster program
development; and (e) the almost total separation of professional and
administrative functions. In addition to the need to restructure virtually
every aspect of teacher training, the development of a cohesive,
development-conscious and fully qualified teacher training professional and
administrative staff is required to upgrade the quality of primary teachers
and primary education as a whole.
9.        In terms of their functions and responsibilities, the regional
inspectors are more intimately associated with teacher development than the
training centers. Their limited training in the pedagogical
process-exacerbated by the lack of a continuous teacher training program,



-40-                    ANNEX 2-6
Page 7 of 8
limited contact with the pre-service training centers, time-consuming
administrative functions, and absence of logistical support--has severely
reduced their effectiveness. The burden of implementing the education
reform lies squarely but uneasily on the regional inspectorates.
10.       The Government is well aware of the constraints which limit the
development of an effective teacher cadre and the role primary school
teachers must play in resolving the qualitiative deficiencies which
severely handicap the primary school system. After several years of
discussion with educators (primarily from the Bank and USAID), specific
measures to improve primary teacher training have been proposed and a
strategy formulated which will restructure and expand the teacher training
capacity of the Ministry of National Education. The strategy includes:
(a) The creation of a sub-department within the Ministry to
initiate and coordinate teacher training development. The
legal aspects have been concluded, and a specialist financed
by USAID will be assigned to assist in its development for a
period of five years, starting in October 1984.
(b) Development of pre- and in-service teacher training programs,
scheduled to be formulated and implemented over a five-year
period in the north and northwest provinces by local experts
assisted by five full-time specialists (supported by
USAID-financed consultants who will be assigned to the staff
and five primary teachers colleges.
Cc) Development and introduction of an in-service training program
for teacher training staff, regional inspectors, and school
directors, to be conducted over a five-year period (1984-89)
with USAID-financed technical assistance. This staff
development program will include: (i) the creation of
mechanisms to ensure the continuous evaluation and quality
improvement teacher training programs; (ii) formulation of a
guide for primary school management; and (iii) provision of 12
M.A. Education scholarships to ensure continuity of the staff
development program.
(d) Restructuring of the administration of the primary teachers
colleges and development of a college library system as a
prerequisite to the organization of the colleges into
effective resource centers for teachers in each region
(USAID-financed).
(e) Rehabilitation and extension of five traditional colleges
(financed by a US$16.0 million low-interest USAID loan) to
provide the basic facilities required to implement the
training programs envisaged. Guidance in the determination of
these facilities is provided by the new primary school
curriculum to be introduced which will be the basis for the
new teacher training programs.



-41-                    ANNEX 2-6
Page 8 of 8
(f) Construction and equipping of new facilities for three primary
teachers colleges in Bafia, Ebolowa and Edea (the Government
has anticipated Bank financing of the foreign exchange
portion), which have been designed to accommodate 600 teacher
trainees and also to serve as regional resource centers for
teacher training and upgrading.
11.       The Bank's role, while presently restricted to financing
preparatory work for the introduction of measures to improve the
management of teacher training and the construction and equipment costs
of the three colleges, should be considered as an important and integral
part of the Government's primary school teacher development program.
WAPED
March 1986



-42-                   ANNEX 2-7
Page 1 of 2
CAMEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SECONDARY TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Enrollments in Technical Colleges and Lycees by
Sector of Specialization
(1981 - 1982)
Technical Colleges                    Technical Lycees
Public      Private       Total      Public      Private       Total
Industrial          7,648       10,014       17,662        921         143        1,064
(Z Female)           (4.7)       (5.3)       (5.1)
Commercial          4,358       21,325       25,683      2,076       5,901        7,977
(Z Female)          (56.6)      (51.8)      (52.6)       (51.1)      (47.4)       (48.4)
Rome-Economics      1,967                     1,967
(Z Female)         (100.0)        _        (100.0)
Total              13,973       31,339       45,312      2,997       6,044        9,041
(Z Female)          (34.3)      (37.0)      (36.1)       (35.5)      (46.3)       (42.7)
_.n    _im            .__ _    =mim  =     ____ .____.       m_.___
Apparent Dropout Rates in Technical Colleges and Lycees
Technical Colleges                       Technical Lycees
Starting                                    X                                     %
Year         1st Year    4th Grade      Dropout    1st Grade   3rd Grade   Dropout
1978/79      13,200         9,069         31.6        4,135        1,198        71.0
1979/80      14,307         9,288         35.1        4,699        1,181        75.0
1980/81      15,378        10,621         31.0        5,394        1,108        79.5
1981/82      17,296        12,140         29.8        5,555        1,135        79.6
1982/83                                               4,903        1,160        76.3
Average                                   31.9                                  76.3



-43-                  AMC= 2-7
Page 2 of 2
Compariton of Actual and Prolected Technical and Vocational
Education Enrollmetu (1951/82 - 1985/86 Develooant Plan)
1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86
1. Projected          76,000      86,000     97,000    109.000    121,000
2. Actual (rounded)   59,700      63,100      69,000     75,400           -
3. Z Below Target        21.4       26.6        29.0   -   30.8
CAP Examination Trends in Industrial and Coomercial Trades
(1980 - 1983)
1980      1981      1982       1983
Certificates Awarded      1.343     1.861      2.056     2.327
Industrial                  955     1,360      1,526     1,784
Commercial                  388       501        520       543
Success Rate (2)           14.8      19.6       18.7      18.3
Industrial                 21.0      28.2       26.8      26.7
Coinercial                  8.6      10.8        9.9       9.1
Baccalaureat Exa-mation Trends
(1974, 1980 - 1984)
1974    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Certificates Awarded        248     333     439      413     477     740
E (Maths, Drawing)           10      14        9       6       -       11
F (Industrial)               72      63      95       76     107      104
G (Nanagement/Co  erce)    166      256     335      331     370     625
Success Rate (2)           54.4    21.4    25.2    23.6    25.7    29.5 I/
E (Maths. Drawing)         32.5    73.7   100.0    85.7        -    50.0
F (Industritl)             61.5    28.9    47.7    42.5    45.0    41.1
G (Management/Commerce)   53.9    19.4    21.9    21.2    23.0    28.0
1/ Public Lyc6e only: success rate in 1984. 46.9Z.
Source:  DPOS - Unesco Survey.
VAPrD
March 1986



CAMEROON/CAMEROUN
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT/PROJET EDUCATION ET FORHATION PROFESSIONNELIE
COMPARISON OF RECURRENT COSTS PER STUDENT IN SELECTED WEST AFRICAN COUNTRIES/
COMPARAISON DES DEPENSES RECURRENTES PAR ELEVE DANS QUELQUES PAYS DE L'AFRIQUE DE L'OUEST
Annual Recurrent Cost per Student/
nfpenses REcurrentes Annuelles par EUlve
as Z of GNP per capita/
in US Dollars/en dollars E.U.             en 2 du PNB per capita
GNP per    Primary          Secondary General       Primary          Secondary Ceneral
capita/    Education/       Education/Enseigne-    Education/        Education/Enselgne-
Country/Pays      Year/       PNB per    Enseignement    sent GinEral Secon-    Enseignement    mnt CGn ral Secon-
Annfe      capita      Prisaire         daire                   Primaire        daire
Mali              1981        180            30                  395                 15.7                 207.8
C.A.R.            1981        298            55                  117                 18.4                  39
Sierra Leone      1980        270           68                   216                 25  !'                80 a/
Hauritania        1978        270           142                  797                 52                   295
Ivory Coast       1976        610          120                 1,040                 20                   170
Senegal           1976        420          117                   260                 28                    62
Benin             1977        200           41                    92                 20                    46
Burkina           1977        118           62                   440                 52                   373
Togo              1983        340            23               79 b/    475 c/         6             20A1  b/   120 c/
Cameroon          1983        890           52                   325                  6                    38
Source:  World Bank Missions/Missions Banque Mondiale.
a/ Estimates/Estimtions
b/ Lover Secondary/Premier cycle secondaire                                                                        *
WAPED         c/ Upper Secondary/Decuxibe  cycle secondaire
March 1986



-45-                       ANNEX 2-9
Page 1 of 2
CAMEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF THE EDUCATION BUDGET
National and Education Budget 1981/82 - 1984/85
(CFAF billion)
National Budget                  Education Budget
Year      Recurrent  Investment   Total   Recurrent  Investment  Total
1981/82      199          111       310        29           8        37
14.6%       7.2Z     11.9%
1982/83      257          153       410        41           9        50
16.0%       5.9X     12.2%
1983/84      326          194       520        51          16        67
15.6Z       8.2%     12.9%
1984/85      400         220        620        62          22        84
15.6%      10.0%     13.5%
Breakdown of MINEDUC Recurrent Budget by Category of Expenditure
(CFAF billion)
Category                       1981/82       1982/83     1983/84
Personnel (Salaries)                 24.6          34.3        42.9
Personnel (Supplementary)             0 0.3         0.4         0.6
Operations                            2.2           3.1         4.1
Maintenance (Infrastructure)          0.4           0.5         0.5
Courses/Training                      1.1           1.4         1.7
Sundry                                0.4           0.8         0.9
Total                                29.0          40.5        50.7



-46-                       ANNEX 2-9
Page 2 of 2
Distribution of NDNEDUC Recurrent Budget by Level of Instruction
(CFAF billion)
1983/84
Primary/Pre-school                20.7   41.0%
Secondary (Gen. and Tech.)        13.9   28.0Z
Teacher Training                   0.4    0.07Z
Higher Education a/               15.8
General Administration            15.6    4.0X
Total                             66.4
a/ Budgeted separately
Budget Distribution for Technical Colleges and Lycees - 1983/84
(CFAF million)
Meals,
Uniforms,
Total                 Other        Boarding
Budget    Salaries    Expenses    Fee           (4) as
(1)        (2)         (3)          (4)       % of (3)
Technical Colleges    2,396.6      2,168.5      228.1         90.0       39.5
Technical Lycles      2,536.1      2,387.4       149.5        80.0       53.6
Total                 4,932.7      4,555.9      377.6        170.0       45.0
Source: MINEDUC/Unesco Survey
WAPED
March 1986



CAKEROON/CAMEROUN
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT/PROJIET EDUCATION ET FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
REHABILITATION OF SECONDARY TEChNICAL SCNOOLS/
REEQUIPEHENT DES LYCEes lT COLLEGES D'ENSZICNDENT TECHNIQUE
(CFAF Million/Milllon FCFA)
Hlilher Secondary Technical Schoola/
Lcnr Secondary Technical Schcols/Collnes danaeignapenc technique                                              Lyia techtniques
NSoa fkle        Ch. Atangana                                                             CCtt?             CIWiI
SpecLalty/Sections                   Yaounad           YTanwdi            Obe            Iafculaa   /        Ebolova         Tanomdd        Akva-Doala        Lumb  I/         DOecls         nonaberi
General tlechanile/                   162                                 152                 165                                                                                2327           15
Wcwnique gEndrala
Auto Yvcbmnits/                        46                                  39                   32                                                                                23             It
micanique auto
metal wVork/                           26                                  26                                                                                                     21             30
Cnnatrucitona itailiques
ilectroltehnica/                                                           16                                                                                     19              23             31
Elaclro technique
laectronics/                                                                                                                                                                      21
Elactronique
lood Work/                                                                 I?                   L       3                                        23
Nanulacria
ltubing/                                                  is
Ploarie sAnitaire
Refri4eration.Alr-condittoninII                            8                                                                                                                                     24
Froid-Clihatl ation
Civil worm/                                                                                                                                                       24                             is
Cnial Civil
NAlonrY,                                                  10               11                   11             10
PAposerle
AdbLnistratiin/                                           16               1A                   16             16                                                 42              69             79
Comarelal
Woan Industriaeal                                                                                                               0                20
Induatril fdiinina
Deuin Tables                                                                                                                                                                      *0             a
Tables a 2e dln
Sub-toal/tcuc totna                   236                 *0              277                  239             59              30                20               81             497            374
Iafurbahln/                            1                  60              120                   so             40               5               42                35             272             Si
Uoovactaoa
W cotntrction/                                                                                                                                                                    92             71
Noveollas corestructlenc                                                     
Total                                 251                120              397                  319                             i s5              72              120             661            476
V/     afouasaa and Kuaba are now functioning ma lover-uppar secondary technical schools.
WAPID
March 1986



CA-EROON
EDUCATIONAL 4 VOCATIONAL TRAINING PR1JECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE - MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
PROJECT                       CALENDAR Y            -                                86                        7                      Be                                                                  9
CMOENTS                   FISCAL YEAR  months         -NDFM                                                                                                                              1 
Strengthening  tueAtion Pro       '                     _     _                                     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                             I
Specialist in Project Nanagement                 48 rn/r
Specialist in Equipment Procurement              36 r/u
Specialist in Education                          36 U/        _*
Specialist in Architecture/Construction          36 */u       _          I
Consultants (preparation future projects)   24 W/in
Scholarships                                      6Wi/n
Strengthening Educational Planning (DPOS)
Specialist in Education Planning                 36 W/u       _ _                                                                            I I     I I I
Specialist In School Statistics                  24 u/rn
Consultant in Education Cost Pinancing           24 rn/      _
Consultant in School Mapping                     12 rn/u1-
Scholarshipae  let phase                         62 */n                  I
2nd phase                       41 rn/r
Statistical surveys
Local seminsars   middle level staff             38 We/
loowr'level staff             90./.
Strengthening Technical Education (DRIP)
I provement of Planning Capability
Specialist in Technical Education Planning  36 u/eI
Consultants                                      12 Wem
Scholarships:   lot phase                        is 8/rm
2nd phase                      3   /
3rd phase                      3  nr
o't'
.   _ _  __  +    q   1rr-l   _tl       ll |I   ll ll   l   l                  |   || II I -       e1  1l ll ll 



IMPLDEMNTATION SCHEDULE - MINISTRY t1 NATIONAL EDUCATION
PROJECT                     ~ CALKNUAX YU856 FVP87FiA8 1R =i
COHtONlNTS       -           FISCAL YEAR  onth s ai                         H      I    IA  I l  D   HIJ JIAISI OINIDIJNF   IAIMJIJ -JFM  - -   Fl
Strengthening Technical Educatlan (DrTP) (continued)
Pfe-investmnt Study - Purchase and Maintenance
system
Specialist In Macintenance Hansi eent
Scholarships                                  16  _/8                                                                 -  -   -   - - - -_  - - - -il1  trlr   n   . . or   rrm    I I I I I I r I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  1 1
Pro-investment Study for Rehab. 3 Sec. Tech. Schools___             ____            = _z =              m    l U          .    -           _  I I I I I I I I I Illn|                     1
Conisultant(s)_6*1                                        __      ____                 _  rr-l          n                                 
Rehab. *nd RKe-equlppLng 10 Sec. Tech. Schooln                                               
Improving Primary Education (DEP)                         ___         _____           8 _8t|Tlr                                                    r           r          i   mm   
furnitur*                                                                
wquipment.___                                                     _____            2 2                                   at
Study Cost Financing Pri -ry Teacher Training                                                                                                             - - -  - - - - - - -                Ll|}l}1              1t1llllllllllllll~ 
Consultant                                     6 */o                          __   2 _m                                      
Consultant                                     6 4  /o             mn
_-44__     ___               C
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                                               



CAltROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
HINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION - SUMMARY OF SPECIALIST SERVICES AND FELLOWSHIPS
Project Components                                     Title                            Duration Ofm                                             Sumary of Objectives
Strengthening Education                 01 Specialist In project management                        48               Assistance to DPE for project organizatton-management (programing -
Project's Management (DPE)                                                                                          monitoring - control - evaluation).
Specialists                     02 Specialist in aquipment procurement                     36               Assistance to DPE staff and staff involved in equipment procurement for the
preparation of bidding documents and organization management of equipsent
delivery and installation.
03 Specialist in education                                 36               Assistance to the DPE to monitor progress of surveys and studies, to organize
and monitor fellowships program and local seminars.
04 Specialist in architecture/                             36               Ass!istance to the DFP architects to monttor biddirg process, supervise
construction                                                             progress civil works.
05 Consultants (preparation future                         24               Short missions for specific tasks mainly related to pre-investment studies
projects)                                                                (technical education and maintenance).
Fellowships                        Training of project's staff                              6               Training of staff in specific area which will be identified during early stage
of project implemantation.
Strengthening Educational               01 Specialist in ediucation planning                       36               Assistance to DPOS to review educational issues, coordinate surveys and
Planning (DPOS)                                                                                                     studies, develop tools and mechanism for educational strategy's
implementation, and organize staff training.
Specialists                   02 Specialist in school statistics                          24               Assistance to statistical services to review existing data, implement new date
system, monitor statistical surveys, train staff and statisticians.
03 Consultant(s) in costs and                              24               Assistance to DPOS to analyze education budgets and allocation of resources,
financing of education                                                   develop procedures to improve budget preparation, introduce new methods and
tools for use of data, and train staff.
04 Consultant in school mapping                            12               Asststance to DPOS to develop school mapping methodology and organization, to
organize local seminars and train planning staff.
Fellowships                       Training of hiRher-level staff in                      103               2 x 10 months training of 2 education planners in education planning; 2 x 6
planning                                                                 months training of 2 statisticians in school statistics; 2 x 6 months training
of 2 educators in school mapping; 2 x 10 months training of 2 economists in
education cost and financing; 10 months training of an educator in project
evaluation (reforms); 2 a   10 months training of statistician/economist in
comoputer (prograuser-analyst); 9 months study trips Including 3 education                  '
planning,  2 in pedagogical evaluation, 2 in human resources planning, 2 in                  -
school mapping.
Seminars                         Local seminars                                         128               Training of middle-level staff in planning mothods, pedagogical evaluation,
school administration (2 seminars - 15 days each with 38 persons). Training
of lower level staff in school statistics (4 weeks seminar for 90 persons).



MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION - SUWKART OF SPECIALIST SERVICES AND FELLOWSHIPS
Project Componente                                 Title                           Duration */-                                          Sumarv of Objectives
StrengtheninS Technical
Education (DET )
1. Technical Iducation              01 Specialist in technical education                    36               Assistance to director of technical education for reviev in-deptb of technical
Planning                            planning                                                              education system, preparation of tools for improved planning and mansgment of
resources.
02 Consultants                                          12              Short missions to address specific needs in technical-pedagogical or financial
areas.
Fellovwhips                                          86              4 x 10 months training of administrative staff in technical schools
administration; 2 x 5 months of personnel staff in personnel management; 2 x 4
months training of personnel staff in computer; 2 x 4 months training of staff
in education planning including statistics; 3 x 4 montbs upgrading of
techniciens in pedagogy and technology; 2 x 4 onths training of educatore in
rural pedagogy.
2. Project Preparation              01 Expert in equipment purchase/                         36              Aesiatence to DETP to initiate maintenance program. and conduct pre-inveatment
maintenance                                                          study for the implamentation of a purchasemaintenance system.
02 Consultants                                          12              Short misstons to address specific tasks in maintenance and for the completion
of pre-inveetsent study.
Consultant in technical education                     6              Assistance to DETP to conduct a pre-investment study for rehabilitation of 3
CETo in tondeoumb6 - Ibis - Nkongeamba.
Fellowships                                          16              2 x 4 months training for technicians in saintenance training, 4  onthe
training for technician in purchaso and varehouse administration. 4 months
training for administrator in finance administration.
Strengthening Primary                01 Consultant(s) in primary teacher                      12              Short aisdions of consultants specialists in teacher training and costs and
Education (Drn1)                         training                                                             financing to prepare a set of measures aiming at improvements in teacher
training efficiency.
VAPID
March 1986
xlti



CAMEROON
IMUCTasOMN 6 VOCATIONAL TRA"ININ MoJW
DIPLEHENTATION SCHEDULE - MINISTRY OF LzABOR AND SOCIAL VlEaIkt (C NAFOP)
tIIOJZC                    CALIPMA.0 YEAR 
Iurro"iri40;;PISCALEAR~~                           _      lm _               A _10 l i Lr iLDllrim il    L             =niihs DI  =niiiihs  =IIRN    Al =  Il lviilrL                 took
lProject H ngewnt                                         _   _r L                 111 rT   IIEE                =..                  =                    II  II      m          r    lIIII  I
SPecilelst in rroJEct KhnageFent               4a *1                                                                   ___;.....      mX                              L
Fellowships-~-  ~-~-   7-___  llriirrtl                                                                 t         :  ..:,:                     ..    mlmT                      iTrm
Project Prepatration                              8/               i- 4           11 m              Iz...                        ..
consultant                                     12.1 _      |||||{ zr                                  l    -..             1|t||                                       I||| |
Pre-investmnt Study Creation ON    17A7E11lIIIII1===        11111L  1SLr 
Fellowships                  -30  /_=_-   lL      [ W ir;_*=I_|=*_A:*:*:_=:_mm 
Strengthening Sub-Directoraet  Manpower (SDHO)           =  _                                                                                                                                           t||7171111IrA L   . .==X = ==b u u L L L rIIIll 
Specialist  |  in  Iapoe  P                         L.._1.___.lannIll l  2I  I   Ll                                                                                I II ll rlI
)wlowships                                    54 a!   -   a=;__;.;_            
Strenathenio5 Sub-Directorate Vocational Training(SDFOP -=-||||||||||                                                _: :__=_L      _=_====_ _
Specialist in Vocational Trelninr              24 */-     o______1                                                                _             
bveloping CDUOP                                          ___|||I || 1                     [    1 |
Technical Assistance                          213 v/W   5____inl_____    
Fellowships                                   128 0/0  - - - -                                          
o 1O
.4 0



IMPLEtlENTATION SCHEDULE   M INISTRY OF LABOR AND SOCIAL YCLFLARE (cLNAFp)
CN     ENT5- -                    FiSCAL YEAR        xon      t         AIXSIOI                           NIDIJ rHIAHiJt5  r. 11,     HII   _II   HIIJJII I   a3 _F_  R . J _            R         _         _        _       _A
ltuipmnt                                                                                                                                                                                           - --  - -;  - -rli  -- =-       ;       l si i i i i i i i i i i
Blidding_  _=  * _:_=====:=___:=_ ==- :
B,id Evaluation_  __      _ _____________,,__$___ _    TII11111111111 
Technical Assistancee---_3  |||||||-    -   "      ; -      1
O] Specialist Refrigeration/Air Conditioning    24 */n     E_o______:_;;;;_;=  ll|||t               
0S Specialist Mechanical Construction                     Is Mfg                                               - - - -         - - -                            
_-                                              L  - - -1&1  1111   . -  ;  - - - - ~~~~A  4                                                                      ---           ---8 
10 Social Pro otion                                        3 */o  _t_           i                             
Tralninx now trainers                                 60 */0                                   
UpigradinA exfstinm trainers                          54 W*'-     -      
Upxreding chief servieea                              12 */-                     [[[||-l||-     
Study trips 2/  i_3       Itt-
=--~~~~~~~~~~I L- I



EDUCASIOWAL AND  VCUSIOWL itAI C PROJECT
mINISTT OF UAOa AND SOCUSA  WELFAAI - DHO"  - SinUAt OF SPECIALIS  uavscu *mD mAD    LOSSUS
Duration
Project Components                           Title                      /n                                                 emsr of Obiectives
1. Improving the Macnsagmnt of          01 specialist in Project                45      Aasistance to Directorate of manpower, vocational training  nd projects for project
Vocational Training                     Managemnt                                    organisation-ancpement (progrmngos  - ueotorins - control - evaluation).
specialists                          02 Specialist in Kanpwecr               24      Assistance to sub-director in *mnpovr for eatablishnet of viable permanent data base systm  -
Traintn                                     monttoring surveys and studies - staff traielng.
03 Specialist 1n Vocational             24      Aasistance to sub-director In vocational training and professional guidance for development of
Training Methodology                        training strategy/network - studies - staff training.
04 Consultant In accelerated            12      Pre-investment study for the rehabilitation of existing CTIi  snd creation of eight nm  Ctl.
Vocational Training
05 Counultant in                        12      Pro-invstment study for the developmnat of the apprenticeahip s7stsm.
Apprenticeship
06 Various consultants                  24      (c) Prs-investent study for the creation of a National Office of Mempower and Contlmmnae Training.
(b) Specific taske  Including preparation of designs and bidding documsnte
lellon hios                             Training of project's                 g      3 months training of accountant in project accountancy, 3 montha traainig chief administrattie
adminitrative staff                        service In procuremont, and 2 a I months study trips for project  magere.
Trdaling related to office           30      (a) 2 motha study trip for directorate in charge of mapower and employmnat to revtew organization
creation                                         experience simllar structures In Africa and Europe.
(b) 2 x 3 month  training of ebief and assistant employment servee in _mower evaluation   d
information systes. elgium - USA.
(e) 2 x 2 onths training of chief and assistant aLatstitc service in employment statiatic.
(d) 2 r 3 montha training of 2 professionals, of vocational training ervice in statistices data
analysis and provilione.
(Ca) 2 x 6  onths training of 2 teehnicians  of vocational training esrvice in audio-viual m1 tbds.
Training of staff under the          54      (a) 9 month  training of statistical engineer In copter (program  alyst - cepter Lt tuages).
anpowmr sub-directorate
(3D3O)                                      (b) 2 r 3 month  of 2 bigh-level atatieticiana In nicro-oe Wter (data saw).
(c) 13 ontha training of 2 statisticians/economists In manp wer plaoliag.
Cd) 10  oentha training of 2 demgreph/aconomnte in mapper  analysis Ce) 6 mnthe traiiag of
bigh-lovel staff dteogroph/tatiatician aditnietretor In employent policieos.
(e) t  entha training of high-level ataff d_raeb/tatistician administrator In o  lnoret
policies.                                                                                                  2
(f) 2 r 4 *nthe traliing of 2 .taatiticiams/deogreph in sample eurvey m_thodologis .
Training of staff under the          45      (a) 3  emths study trip for sub-director vocational training profeessiml g1uidaco  to revie
vocational training and                          organtation  xprhience similar  tructureo In AUrica (2)   | Europe (1).
profeaeional guidance
sub-directorate (SDFP)                       (b) 3 monthe training for chief service vocAtimal trainig In managent nd administratlo  and 3
eotha trainiag for chief service prefessioal orientation (CIM  Turin).
(c) 3 moths training for 12 chiefs cd docties of Cilia.



MINISTnT 01 LABOR AND SOCIAL vELRIM  - CRIAPOP - SUNWT 01 SPZCIALIST SUVICKS AND  tLLUSUIFS
Duration
Project Components                           Title                     u/a                                                Iumary of Oblectives
11. Ieproving the Relevance of          01 Specialisr In methodology             36     Assistance to Director CALuOP and chief servica progrms - tratining of trainers - development of
Voetional Training to                                                              methodologies, training needs *seeent and modular approach.
Employer' Need  (CUNAPOP)
02 Specialist in workshop               24      Ameistance to workshop supervisor - organizatton of vork4bop end practical training - technical
Specialists                   organization                                 research and coordination.
03 Specialist in refrigeration-         24      Training of trainers In the speclilty, development of moduler program  according to mmployere'
air conditioning                             needs, organization workshop.
04 Specialiet in automation             24      Training of trainers In the specialty. developmet of modular progress according to e  lnyers'
need. o*?aniattion workshop.
05 Specialist in metallic               la      Training of trainere in the specialty, development of modular progrms according to mployers
construction                                needs. organization worksbop.
06 Specialiet in  eaintenance           12      Training of treinere in maintenance, development of maintenance programs according to eployers'
mechanice                                    needs. organization workshop.
07 Specialist In auto-                  12      Training of trainera In the specialty, developmnnt of modular progrms according to smployers'
mechanics and electricity                    needs. organization workahop.
08 Specialist in *lectfonics            12      Training of trainers In the specialty. developmnt of modular progr    according to emloyers'
and electro-technics                        needs, organization workshop.
09 Specialist in heavy                  1I      Training oS treiners in the specialty. developmnt of modular progrms according to  ployers'
equipmnt                                     needs, orglaniation workshop.
10 Consultant in social                  3      Assistance to chief serviee social prowotion - development of a strategy and metbodology according
promotion                                    to the needs.
11 Consultant in managemnnt             12     Aseletance to and training of chief middle msnagement training service, developmnt of mthndolog
training                                     and sodular progrms.
12 Various consultants                  24      Short  isesions to address specific needs vhich will develop duriLng project implemntation.
Vellovahips                   Tratning of new treainers            60      3 mnthe IL0 initial training In pedagogy and mathodology for 20 nev trainnre recruited at
technician or engineer levels.
Upgrading of exieting                54      3 months advanced training in pedagogy or technology for 13 existing trainers.
trainers
Upgrading of supervisors             12      3 months advenced training for 4 supervisors according to individual needs.
Study tripe                           2      Study trips for CEAOr  manaere to compare experience with si* ler training istitutions. 
ar D
March 1534



N        -56-                   ANNEX 3-6
CAMEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
MAJOR ASSUMPTIONS FOR PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
1.        Base cost estimates are for mid-1985, the anticipated time of
negotiations.
(a) Civil works costs are based on the preliminary designs reviewed
during appraisal, and on unit costs derived from comparable
buildings.
(b) Architectural fee estimates are based on the terms and conditions
of the contracts awarded before appraisal.
(c) Equipment and furniture costs are based on lists updated during
appraisal, and on unit costs derived from the previous project.
(d) The costs of specialist services and of staff training abroad are
based on recent experience.
(e) The estimates for local staff training and incremental recurrent
costs are based on current costs.
2.        Cost estimates include physical contingencies of 10% for
equipment, furniture and new construction (civil works and architectural
fees), and 15% for rehabilitation (civil works and architectural fees).
3.        The overall allowance for price escalation is about 29% of the
base cost, based on the following percentages:
1986    1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Civil Works, Goods and Services
Local                         0        8      8      8      8      8
Foreign                       7        7    7.5    7.7    7.6    4.5
WAPED
March 1986



mauAn AU onCATIUL DAIXNIK PV1ICW;  SWCA atSa InHAflU PWUU81L
PIIICI8   ISU9T A1Wr IT P00J3K  CO?)IU0,  Du FInT ftu?r                         rArUIXU ES mm  PfA  t 4mU)
(CVA  millio.ICA aillim)
aINISU  CP SATIOlL   UCIVAflflSIZU  N1 LIEUCATIO NAIIII               NMIIIT OF LUSAMSII    N0 21AYAU.
Teacher                                                                                                                              Pnnling sad
1raltoLag                                                                                                                            usasomment of
Vomit in                                                                                                                            R1a1er sad
ins.luat                                                                                                                             VocationaI
prLmire                                                                                                        Adult loca-           Trabtaln
Eicsatiael             tital Training,       Plaiftcsttc
Uafut*lebi  at 10         u"tpmnt                                      ummins               WowaI                 at gsteln                         Physical Cotla-
Tacmiesl Sehoola/        alotemance        tr.luas"tt               ad Ninsgt/             Pocutto.              4. la 1 as                        pocJsim,. llwUs
5I21S  afis        U lfh ttlttsttG          Csaaity/           stu4des for I Ccs/       COttt=m                 profasstell.        4t eNe  at
Doel..,            de to icolas             Kat.tlmeu de        bt1. de pr atwes-       at plallttCe tm        desr autes            4l loI matim
flu               tacbaims                  l'Eoulsnmnt        tt!mmnt dt 1 CzTs        de lPiduatimo          CDAC                  protefs.ielle        Total           .       _t
1. IJVIIUIT 00SI/EUTS 0' I       fl2
A. Civil kuts/CAnt. civil                 *,80.9                  90.7                    *- -                                                       -                               *70                     10.7       723.1
S. Architectural fens/
INuorolres darchltactes                  1U.t                   32.0                    -                                              -                                           -             215.1     10.7       2U.S
C. tqulpmnt/Iuipauuat                       909.0               1,877.9                 37.                      '                    230.0                1,051.0                103.3           *,209.9     10.0       923.9
0. Faralture/Nobiller                       930.1                     -                    --                                                                    -                    *3.1                    20.0        13.0
3. spaelsllat Sarv./
trucfs de Spdetalistae                    S1.5                     -                207.3                  25.9                  193".9                   920.0                n22.0           3,220.1      0.0         0.0
P. TralalaSg/Vormalt                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7
1. Loal/locale                               -                     -                    *                     *3.3                                            -                    -               1.       0.0         0.0
2. hAroad/A Iltreor                          *                                       11.                      -                    224.5                  147.9                117.7              98.0      0.0         0.0
Il-total TratneVotmtton                         -                     -                 10.9                     -                    27.5                   147.4                IS7.7             s91.3      0.0          0.0
Total Investment Costs/
Cdt. total dlocestiaMfnt                 7,t17.9               2,560.t                2f1.1                  2S.9                  1,897.2                2,119.0                SD.0          U11  0.        7.5    1,219.0
I I. alls
Rw_ mms
A. alSaesal/Ialre*s                                                                    13.0                      *                    198.0                1,120.0                 73.9           1,90         0.0          0.0
S. Coaanaabl.s/Coosmsblea                    99.s                 70S.9                 21.3                     .                    102.1                  215.1                 S1.0           1,106.0      0.0         0.0
Total lacurrnt Cost$/
Cdlt total des chirps rdeurreante              ".s                  73.9                 19.9                      -                    270.1                 1,373.1               129.6            2,796.6      0.0        0.0
Total I"e u1 Cotee/
Cots total de bas                           7,310.9               3,020.0                423.2                  25.9                  2,167.3               31,49.1               1,007.9          15,201.3      0.0    1,210.0
Physical CootLogoes/.larinu                   731.b                 l3l.2                  1.6                                           23.0                  10.2                 10.3           1,214.0      0.0         0.0
Pries Ctleo mlaa/
Provisian pmr hasse ides pits               1,021.2                 9SO.0                 9.9                   23.9                    9".1                   811.9                250.0 *           009.1      3.3       233.9
tTSAL N T  M                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..
En  T=. Du PmJZT                            9,579.8               9,91.5                 323.6                  28.6                  2,8".0                 *,1U.1               1,290.9          2399".0       0.2    1,499.9        ,t.
_                        _                     _                     _-                                                 -                                            -                   9F
renpulgacbeag/Dalase                       31,10.9                3,105.3                27.7                   23.0                  2,013.0                2,197.9                977.7          12,390.7      S.7       710.0
Mard 195



WCATIOUL AD VOCATIOL TUIW 1 JLJEOT?WrUZT  UCATION  !T IOI&ATIO   MMSILs
PC01T COSTS (PMWCT COST SOIl)/CODNTS D  nOT (TASLI SOUIME  D15 CU TS DW 1 3)
(CA1 udlll/cVA atllto1    )                  (06  W000/ 000 dollars l)                I            2 Total
Local/         forel/                       Local/        lorelpi                       ForeIp         as Coete/
Dfo.ess        Dcipem"                       Dipeas         Dip..s                         ca.es/    2 eoat total
loeeles       en deses            Total       locales     eon devises         Total      t DevSs          de bane
A. NIlllt3T o0  NtAIONUL TICTIOhINIUI3STl DR L'OCATION
1. Pthn   Teacer Tralansaiomrea1to  esse1sast
urimire
5X4A  UfSa, Eboleoa, Uan                                    4,762.4          2,754.4        7,316.9      12,369.9         7,154.4      19,524.3         37              41
S/-total                                                    4,762.4          2,754.4        7,516.9      12,349.9         7,154.4      19,524.3         37              41
2 secgdr, TSlcalcal tuscatloeEa/sesmet eecoslre
teeo1e,e
ufurbslhing at 10 teelbmcal esboolalatabllltatlo,
de 10 *oeles tehliques                                       1,331.6          2,294.4       3,626.0       3,451.6         5,959.6       9,416.2         63              20
rtelsiat lluletesue Ce palH7101rOtlet d*e
Il7ipmntt                                                     174.7            24;.5          423.2         452.7           645.5       1,0".3          59               2
Pretsvestmt Studlee for 3 CRTu/Itudee de
prllaveetlee _ent de 3 ClTe                                     2.S              23.1          25.9           7.2            60.1          67.3         69               0
S/-total                                                    1,509.0           2,564.1       4,075.1       3,919.6         6,6S5.2      10,564.9         63              22
3. Educatio.al Plmin  and Naaaaemt/Geati.  et
sIelftestioe de Ideaucatioa                                   442.2           1,725.1       2,167.3       1,148.5         4,480.        5,269.3         60              12
Sub-total issletry of Natlomal Uducatlo/
soum-total Nimletire de l'IJdcatlo  Eatilousle                    6,713.6           7,045.6      13,759.3      17,42.1         16,300.3      35,768.4         51              75
5. INIMIST 01 LAOltNIdSTIUR DU TRAVAIL
1. Adult *ocatloel Trelabi , CAPOF/Formation
prfesuioea.lle dea  ahaltea, CRUOP                          1,671.7          2,022.5        3,494.1       3,622.5         5,256.2       9,075.6         56              19
2. Planing ad Naag t of Nanpower ae Vocatlonal
TraleningjPlhftcatlom at gestlo. de 1 main-d'ouvre
at de 1* flortion professionselle                             179.6            6U2.1        1,007.9         467.0         2,151.0       2,616.0         62               6
Sub-total NLiatry of Labor/Ias-tatal Nialstire do Travail          1,6531.4         2,850.6       4,502.1       4,269.4         7,404.2      11,693.6         63             2i5
Total  soeeline CostslCofte total de base                         S,365.1           9,696.2      16,261.3      21,727.5        25,704.5      47,432.0         54              100
Pbheleal Celotiugenclea/l4r6ua                                    612.2             601.6       1,214.0       1,590.0         1,563.2       3,153.2         SO               7
Price Co,ti.gmeles/eroviloion por hawae dee pri.                2,026.7           2,042.6       4,069.3       5,264.1         5,305.5      10,569.6         50              22
TOTAL nOJKCT COSTS/CWOTS TOTAL DW nonT3                          I1,003.9          12,540.7      23,544.6      2BSL1.6         32,573.3      61,154.9         53              129
sea
Ibtt im



CAHEROON/CAMEROUN
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT/PROJET EDUCATION ET FORHATION PROFESSIONNELLE
PROJECT COSTS (COST SUNKARY BY CATEGORY)/COUTS DU PROJET (TABLEAU SOMKAIRE DES COUTS PAR CATEGORIE)
(CFAF mIllion/FCFA million)       (US$ '000/'000 dollars EU)
XZ        Total
Local/    Foreign/               Local/    Foreigp/                Foreign    Base Coats/
Dipenses  Dipenses               Dipenaes  Dipenses                Exchange/  X coOt total
locales   en devieaa   Total    locales   en devises   Total    S Davises  de base
1. INVESTHENT COSTS/COUTS D'INVES-
TISSEHENT
A. Civil Works/Genie civil          4,874.2     1,886.3    6,760.6  12,660.4    4,899.5   17,559.9         28            37
B. Architectural Fees/
Honoraires d'architectes           167.6        51.0       218.6     435.3       132.4       567.8      23             1
C. Equipment/Equipseant               455.1     3,784.3    4,239.4   1,182.1    9,829.3   11,011.4         89            23
D. Furniture/Hobilier                 269.6        160.5      430.1      700.2      417.0    1,117.2       37             2
e. Specialist Services/
Services de splcialiates           346.4     2,880.1    3,226.4      899.7    7,480.7    8,380.4        89            18
F. Training/Formation
1. Local/Locale                    43.3            -        43.3     112.3           -       112.3       -             0
2. Abroad/A l'Itranger                 -       548.0       548.0          -    1,423.4    1,423.4      100             3
S/-total Training/Foruation         43.3       548.0       591.3      112.3    1,423.4  - 1,535.8       93             3
Total Investment Coats/CoOt. total
d'investi.esuent                        6,156.2      9,310.2   15,466.4  15,990.0   24,182.4   40,172.4         60           85
II  RECURRENT COSTS/CHARGES RECURRENTES
A. Salaries/Salairea                1,496.3            -    1,496.3   3,886.5           -    3,886.5        -             8
B. Conaunables/Consommables           712.6       586.0    1,298.6   1,850.9    1,522.1    3,373.0         45             7
Total Recurrent Coats/CoOts total
des charges rfcurrentes                 2,208.9        586.0    2,794.9   5,737.5    1,522.1    7,259.6         21           15
Total Baseline Costs/CoOta total
de base                                 8,365.1      9,896.2   18261.3  21,727.5   25,704.5   47,432.0         54          100
Physical Contingencies/Iuprlvus         612.2        601.8    1,214.0   1,590.0    1,563.2    3,153.2         50            7
Price Contingencies/Provision                                                            i,
pour hausse des prix                  2,026.7     2,042.6    4,069.3   5,264.1    5,305.5   10,569.6          50           22
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS/COUTS TOTAL
DU PROJET                              11,033.9    12,540.7   23,544.6  28,581.6   32,573.3   61,154.9          53           129   *
......~.    s...fl..   .flfl...  .....    . ....*   S              ..
WAPED
March 1986



fLEfM  OF TOTAL POUICK flOAfl AnW wlaL CM OIF NRJCT BY GM   c& tu riuw                    1N Ttou   TO   .  S CUTS TAX nu 04113 A in emma
US e o000l000 dollars -)
Price Cootibciaeull/rToviutoa  peur              Total Iuuluding Coottogputal/
Sam  Couts/oltos  e batss                  bracal Cooettasctsshuorkrs                      huss   leo s5 trs                           Total iniant bovrea
Lcal-                                                               14cal *              Loca  -                                   total-                                   pysieal
lool.                                         Kt.l                                        hot.                                     Kul.                                  Coo. plu
Duties &                                       Duties &                                  Duties &                                  Duties &                                Price Cot.        lea  Cats pls
Su/                                            Taesua/                                   Taus/                                    TSs/                                    on ibylical         Price Cat.
Locle -                                        leale *                                   Ltocle -                                  Locale -                              Couotqmtelu/        -  lea Cata/
D i.                                           Dowseois                                  O_ms                                     _omass                                   Uprtw et        Cctis bea  at
Forelp     et tales                            Forel      * at tans                       forip   at taes                           ForLa    tt tans                                 priUsLi  poor       progviis  por
lscbao"p/      non                             hebag/         non                          eochbau/      noc                        Ischbao/       r                                  base des prls    bass ds pris
Duwlvs      c riis    Taxes       Total        Dewvias     eo is    Taus    Total         Deviso   copuia   Tuest          otal     Davises    curts  Tats                 Totl    sir lpriw             M  eros bae
1. D-I   mulSS/
pOUS  D 7NMST2#1Xt
A. Clyil fkoLs/Cint
ctvil                        4,609.1    12,4O.4        *     17,9.9           1,14.4     1,355.1      *    1,679.5        b39.1    2,53.3       *    3,517.J     6,2Sl.4   1,t7G73                    22,957.2       2,219.6             20,737.6
5. Arnhttectural Feet/
tooraires dierchi-
taets                          132.4       435* 3      *        547.1          14.2        44.7       -       o0.9         23.2       91.4      *      114.7       149.9       573.5     -               743.4          72.0                 .1
C. lsipmeut/Etq4_emnt           9,629.3      1,182.1            11,011.4         982.9        115.2      *    1,101.1      2,207.6      313.1      -    2,10.6    13,020.0    1,613.4 t                  14,433.4      14,433.4             13,303.1
D, Fusmture/)tilier               417.0        700.2      -       1,117.2         41.1         70.0      *      111.7        115.2      225.4      *      340.7        573.6        5.6      -            1,549.6        1,330.3             1,424.9
E. Ipecluist Servtee/                                                                                                                                                                                    10,038.7
Services de opclilates    7,460.7          599.7       -      6,360.4          -            -                  *        1,451.0      204.3      *    1,6I .3    s1,f2.7    1,104.0       -                             142.7             10,036.7
P. Traiotag/ortotsn
1. Local/Loatel                            112.3 S.) *          112.7                                *                                16.1      -       1.3 S                    SO                     ll.              -                    0
2. Abmid/A t'ltraer          1,23.4          -         *      1,423.4          *            *                             251.5                        251.5     1,675.0       1-67510                                                    1,475.0
6/-toael Tratoalg/tnmtiom          1,423.4        111.3              1,531.8         -            -                             231.5        13.3            269.6      1,675.0      130.4                   1,J05.6                            1,60.6
Total lasstot Costo/
COte total di'iVeatioenot         24,162.4    13,990.0       -      40,172.4      1,563.2    1190.0         -    3,153.2      4,909.2    3,513.0      -    6,422.2    30,454.6   21,093.0       -           51,747.9        3,711.4            47,963.3
11. UnT min
A. Saleries/Isiae                 *         3,044.5      .       3,046.3                      *         *         .          -       1 42         *    1,174.2         *       5,07:.0      -            5,072.6                            5,072.6
8. Comausbles/Coonables   1,522.1           1,650.9      *      3,373.0          *            -         *        *          39.3       54.9       *      ff1.2     1,918.3    2,413.                     4,334.3                            4,334.3
Total  ecnent Costs/
Coets total des cLras
dcrrentmi                          1,522,1      5,737.5              7,239.4                                                    . -  -  * .I    1,711.1  -    2,147.5   1,91l.5    7,480.4      -            9,407.1            -               9,407.1
Total                             25,704.5    21,727.5       -      47,432.0      1,563.2      1,s5O.0      -    3,153.2      3,305.5    5,24.1       .   1,569.6    32,573.3   26,561.6        -           41,154.9        3,764.6            37,0.3    i
Mrch 1966



ATIOlAL AND VOCAX2L TlAUIGM rmm
Plancina Pln by Projet Con!ente
(5S$ 'ow)
Intarntiooal                            Goveramet
Bnk for                                of the
Reconetruction                          Republic of                                                                   11cal
and Dvelcomet                            C_eon                          Total                     Foreip          (Remleding           Dutias &
^ ouat   s   A ount  a           Amount               %            Eacnas            Tax")                T
A. HilNsT OP trAIOII
1. Primary Teace Training
IlAS WIA, EfLOVA, EDEA                                               9.954.2           3J.8           159442             61.2           15,48.4             41.6l           9.355            16U2.
Sub-Total Primry Teacher Training                                  9,954.2           38.8           15,69*2            61.2           25,648.4            41.9            9,351.1           16,113.3
2.  acondary Technieal E4ucation 
Refurblibshg at 10 Technical Schools                                 6,395.4           50.1            6,362.4           49.9           12,757.8            20.9            8,066.3           4,691.5
Equi4nt 1ai4ntensnes Capacity                                          b98.8           51.4              661.9           48.6            1,360.6             2.2              772.3              387.4
Prainvetaat Studies for 3 CLe                                           63.5           85.0               11.2           15.0               74.7             0.1               66.1                8.2
Sub-Total Secondary Technical Edduction                            7,157.6           50.4            7,035.5           49.6           14,193.2            213.2           8,906.2            5,287.0
3.  ducational Planning and Hanagment                                    4,897.6           72.8           1a828.7            27.2            6.726.3            11.0            5.2S5.7            1.440.6
Sub-Total Ministry of Rational Education                          22,009.4           47.3           24,558.5           52.7           46,567.9            76.1           23,546.9           23,020.9
S. IIMIY oP IAM
1. Adult Vocational Tratning, CUAMOP                                     5,669.3           49.7            5,768.2           50.1           11,437.5            U.7             6468.8             4,970.7
2. Planning end Manageent of hnpoenr and Vocationl Training              2.358.W           75.4              770.8           24.6            3.1295              3.1            2.539.6              390.
Sub-Toel Hinistry of Labor                                         8.0*8.0           55 2            6.519.0           MA             14417.0             23.9            9.026.3            5.560m7
Total Cleburseent                                                 30,057.5           49.1           31,097.5           50.9           61,L54.9           100.0           32,573.3           28,581.6
lArcb 1984
_   _   _ _     _                _                 _                _                  _                  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*



nAOTAL AM VOCnArauL UA2utc PMn2
finrnetoa Plan by foteect Cimoe_Ut
CW1S '000)
Interntiontal                          coGYSrmpot
Iwk for                               of the
Rtoanstructiom                          ep*blte of                                                                e
end Dmlomet                             C    _ma.                     Total                   ForeS           (balutla           Dhtle. G
A5                 4      ntt                      %             Ammt                            bhet s 
A. CIVL vo                                                               6,5U7.1          30.0           16,070.0          70.0          22,957.2            37.5           9.2334           16,673.6              -
D. Aa09ISTNCTAL *U                                                                           -              743.4         100.0             743.4            1.2              169.9             573.5              -
C.  ql2 am IA n lltu                                                    12,992.4          00.0            3.240.6          20.0          16,203.0            26.3          l3,593.9           2,409.2              -
D. SlIMCI     Mnc  s                                                      6,532.9         65.0            1,505.           15.0          10,038.7            16.4           8,932.7           1,106.0
*. 715A1t1
Lol                                                                        -             -              130.6          00.0             130.6            0.2                                13A0
Abroed                                                               1.675.0         100.0                                             _ 1.t75.0          2.7           1.t75.0 
Sub-Tatal  etnfng                                                  1,675.0          92.6              130.6           7.2            1,505.6            3.0           1,675.0             130.6
P. R0UU! ODMS                                                *                                            97.1           U10.0            9.407.1            13.4           1I91.5            7.48.6               -
Totel Dlsburent                                                    30,0357.5         49.1           31,097.5          50.9           1,13.9            100.0          32,573.3           26,561.6
North 196
le



-63-                        ANNEX 3-8
CAMEROON/CAMEROUN
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT/
PROJET EDUCATION ET FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
NEW BUILDINGS (PRIMARY TEACHERS COLLEGES)/CONSTRUCTION NEUVE (ENIA)
UNIT AREAS AND COSTS/SURFACES ET COUTS UNITAIRES
1.   Gross unit areas of buildings/Surfaces unitaires brutes des batiments
(a)  Academic and communal/             m2 10.1 per student/
Enseignement et services communs   par eleve (200)
(b)  Boarding/                          m2 10.8 per boarder/
Internat                            par interne (200)
(c)  Primary School/                    m2 2.0 per student/
Ecole primaire d'application        par eleve (600 + 120)
(d)  Staff Housing                      m2 138 average per house/
Logements                           moyenne par logement (5)
2.  Base unit costs (including staff housing)/Couts de base unitaires
(logements inclus)
(a)  Civil works (including 30% for     CFAF 260,000 - US$675 per
site development/                   gross m2/par m2 brut (6,300)
Construction (VRD 30% inclus)      CFAF 2,050,000 - US$5,325 per
student/par eleve (200 + 600)
(b)  Furniture/                         CFAF 173,000 - US$450 per
Mob ilier                           student/par eleve (200 + 600)
(c)  Equipment/                         CFAF 417,000 - US$1,080 per
Equipement                          student/par eleve (200)
WAPED
March 1986



-64-                       ANNEX 3-9
Page 1 of 4
CAMEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
1.        The project involves institutions under the authority of two
different Ministries:
(a) Ministry of National Education (MINEDUC):
Educational Planning Division (DPOS)
Directorate of Technical and Professional Education (DETP)
Directorate of Primary and Maternal Education (DEPM)
(b) Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (bTPS):
Directorate of Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects
(DMOFP)
- Manpower Sub-Directorate
- Vocational Training Sub-Directorate
National Center for National Vocational Training (CENAFOP)
2.        Each Ministry would be responsible for implementation of the
component under its administration. In effect, the Bank loan would finance
two distinct components and the legal documents would include specific
allocations for each component. Each Ministry would therefore have an
administrative and financial structure to ensure efficient implementation
of the components under its responsibility.
Ministry of National Education (MINEDUC)
3.        Implementation of the components under the MINEDUC would follow
essentially the same pattern as under the previous three education projects
assisted by the Bank Group. The Education Projects Directorate (DPE),
attached to the General Secretariat of the Ministry, would be maintained as
a distinct unit within the MINEDUC. As was previously the case, this unit
would be responsible (in cooperation with the services concerned) for:
(a)  general coordination of implementation of the MINEDUC component;
(b) supervision of the preparation of architectural designs and
bidding documents and for the implementation of civil works;
(c) supervision of the implementation of studies-surveys and training
programs;



-65-                        ANNEX 3-9
Page 2 of 4
(d) preparation of the lists and bidding documents for equipment and
furniture, supervision of delivery and installation;
(e) the project accounts;
(f) relations with the Bank and the government services concerned
with the project;
(g) preparation of the budgetary provisions to ascertain adequate
counterpart funding in the annual government budget.
4.        For the Education Projects Directorate to be able to carry out
the above-described tasks, it would be staffed by an adequate number of
qualified and experienced personnel, with the following profiles:
(a) Director (at the level of a Deputy Director of the central
administration);
(b) Deputy Director;
(c) two architects/civil engineers;
(d) a specialist in equipment procurement;
(e) an experienced accountant;
(f) support staff.
5.        In addition to these tasks, the DPE would provide advice and
occasional assistance to the services in charge of implementing the
component under the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, in particular for
procuremeut matters. As most of the project elements would be implemented
in the provinces, arrangements would provide allocations and indemnities
for travel purposes. The DPE staff with the assistance of four technical
assistants: one specialist in organization and management, one specialist
in equipment procurement, one engineer/architect, and one education
specialist, would monitor the implementation of all components, and each
month would prepare a report for the Director summarizing the status of
project implementation, identifying any problems that may arise and
proposing corrective measures. The technical assistants would assist and
train the national specialists in charge of the various sub-components in
preparing technical documents, systematically reviewing implementation
schedules, supervising civil works, furniture and equipment procurement,
and undertaking surveys, seminars and pre-investment studies.
6.        The project would also finance furniture and equipment for the
DPE, limited provisions of fellowships and consultants for specific tasks
related to preparation of future project implementation. Terms of
reference for the technical assistance program are detailed in the project
working papers.



-66-                       ANNEX 3-9
Page 3 of 4
7.        The DPE would maintain separate accounts for payments under the
Bank loan. The DPE would also prepare annual estimates for funds required
to finance the Government's counterpart funding and would ascertain that
the necessary amounts are included in the investment budget. For recurrent
expenditures, the DPE would follow the usual system within the MINEDUC of
"bons d'engagement."
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (MTPS)
8.        The project component under the MTPS would be implemented by the
Directorate of Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects (DMOFP). The
strengthening of this Directorate is justified by:
(a) the diversity of the services involved in the project;
(b) the probability of important future investments in the vocational
training subsector; and
(c) the administrative complexity which would result from a
dispersion of responsibility within several services.
9.        In order to achieve the tasks envisaged under the project
(similar to the tasks of the Education Projects Directorate), the DMOFP
has been assigned full responsibility for project implementation of the
MRES components and strengthened by the creation of an administrative and
financial unit (cellule des projets) and would be staffed by an adequate
number of qualified and experienced personnel with the following profiles::
(a) Director of Manpower and Vocational Training who would be
responsible for project implementation and would have the same
responsibility as the Education Projects Director within the
Ministry of National Education;
(b) An experienced accountant for the accounting section of its
administrative and financial service would be familiarized with
Government and Bank procedures;
(c) A procurement specialist (engineer level) for the procurement
section of its administrative and financial service; and
(d) Support staff in adequate number.
10.       During the initial phase of the project, a specialist in project
management would be recruited to assist the DMOFP in implementation of the
project component under its responsibility.
11.       The DMOFP would entrust appropriate technical responsibilities to
the two Sub-Directorates (Manpower and Vocational Training) in the DMOFP
and to the CENAFOP management in Douala.



-67-                       ANNEX 3-9
Page 4 of 4
Requests for Funds
12.       For each project component under their responsibility, the
Education Projects Directorate in MINEDUC and the Directorate of Manpower
and Vocational Training in MTPS would prepare disbursement applications
according to Bank procedures. These applications would be signed by the
Programming Director ("Directeur de la Programmation") in the Ministry of
Planning.
Audit
13.       All the project accounts would be audited by external auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports would be sent to the Bank within
six months following the end of each fiscal year. Audit fees would be
financed by the Government.
Procurement
14.       The two Directors, for the MINEDUC and the MTPS project
components, would each be responsible for ensuring strict compliance with
the Bank's procedures for procurement.
WAPED
March 1986



CAHEROON/CAMEROUN
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT/PROJET EDUCATION ET FORtATION PROFESSIONNELLE
DISBURSEMENT PROFILE/PROFIL DES DEBOURSEHENTS
(USs million/million dollars E.U.)
Estimated Loan Disbursement/
Istiuatif des ddboursements du prit    Ceneral Country Profile
1330 Fiscal Years                                                            (IBRD and IDA)/
eand quarters/          By Quarter/    Cumulative/    C;Usltive/ Profil gin6ral pour le
Anne. budgitaires        Par trimertre    Cumulatif        Cumulatif  Caeeroun (BIRD et IDA)             _  __ _       _ r_ ile
311D et trimeatree       (US$/$EU)         (US$/$EU)           (2)       ($US/$EU)         (Z)      _   ProtC  l   pour le ,a' /
1967    1                 I1               I1              13                                 " C uaroun
11               .1                 .2               7           .3            1
III               .1                 .3             1.0                                w
V               .1                 .4             1.3         2.4            8
1988    1                .4                .B             2.7
II               .4               1.2             4.0          4.8           16
111              ,6               2.0             6.4                                                                  _ 1,6  53,
IV               .4               2.0             654           7.5          25                                 t stisated Losn
1989    1               1.0               3.0            10.0                               1r/fDiaburseaot
III             1.0               4.0            13.3         10.5           35                      *          eutimatif des 44-
III              1.0               5.0             16.6                                              .l oa. emdot du grit
IV              1.0               6.0            19.9         13.9           46        -"
1990    I1              1.5               1.5            24.9                                            " 
II              1.5               9.0            30           16.9           56        _
III              1.5              10.5            34.9
IV              1.5              '12.0           39.9         19.9           66
1991    1               1.75             13.75           45.7
11 1.75                          15 5            51.5         22.6           75
III              1.75             17.25           58.1                                                8    90   91  1's   t93  9'
IV              1.75             19.00           62.t         24.7           82
1992    1               2.0              21.0            69.8                            (a) Assuming loan effectiveness
11              2.0              23.0            76.4         26.5           88      during the first quarter of FY87/
III              2.0              25.0            83.1                                Avec l'hypothise quo le prit en-
IV              2.0              27.0            89.7         28.0           93      trera en vi;ueur au cours du
1993    1              l.O               28.0            93 0                                prmier  trimestre de l'annie
II              1.0              29.0            96.4         29.2           97               87.
[it              1.0              30.0            99.7                            (b) The general country profile has
IV               .1              30.1           100           29.8           99      been tempered by the disburse-
ment profile of the Third Zduca-
IV                                                            30.1          10       tion Project/Le profil giniral             o
pour le Cameroun a 1t6 infl&chi
compte tenu du profil des dibour-
ements du troislem projet
WAPED                                                                                        iducation.
March 1986



F-MAtI                                                  JlI~4t
,__ ..'  N    I G E A          CRAD H  AAf   CA D
E.SUDAN _
aO  z J   N  G E                                                      _  _
Z 0> oI /tCENTfA       AN!, 1 
z I.0                                 '  CENTRAL AFRICAN                                                                                                               166
A                                 ~~~~~~~~PEPUBLkc- f
1CAMEROONCM                     f                                             NIGEOR  IA 
C-vff o  EC AIO     - -)     \ - -   -4wg
CAO    UIht        -POXS                                                                                                                          C  H  A  D
IU  ,  ~      PEOPLEBH A
I REP.     ZARE\
Atiantic Jceora                   'THE!
L  CONGO I                                                                                      9E/WZ    t 9 
I'0-
CAMEROON
CAM/EROUNJ| /                                                                             '\      G,sd;      C 
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT                                                        Bo 
PROJET EDUCA TION ET FORMA TION PROFESSIONNtLLLE
LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
LOCALISATIOl DES COMPOSANTES DiJPADoJEr
PrimarV TeaChers COollg                                                                       i                              1~       4Bgor
o'   Secondary Technical School                                                                                            '                          .Z
Colleged enseignement technique ou Lyceechnique                                                                                                 'IO
Educational Planning Division.                                                                |  F,     - /
Directorate of Technical and Professional Education;                                    I
and Education Projects Directorate I                                                                      '
Division de/a planification, de lorientation ert des iquipements scolair.s;
Direction del'enseignmene ttechniqueetprofessionnel;
Direction des projet iducaNtion
National Center For Adult Vocational Training
o uentre geignal de formation pro fessionnelle
Directorate of Manpower and Vocational Training
Direction de la main - doeuvre et de /a
forma rion pro fessionnella
_    _  Rood under construct,or
Poved R.2Jst .                                                                                                                                     Wu
-         Notional                                                                                      j
Urpovn  Roads!          o         4    r    8u 1   Ip 40   t        ;                      Guidjib\
-   Notional                             KLMTA
--  -  Province
-r           ------ Department                      w to    k. S              IT
* -     Rilroods                            MILES                     *
Rivers
Ports                                                        /
Internationol airports                                       i
,_.. lInlernotional boundarres
N  G E R I A   ,7 ----|
.~~~~~~ ._.                                       Nba/KImbe"~                '_                                    -  , _ _ ,_,,M,___e_.g,,a Jqe
.J    n1,~yt~5-                                           Tba/.         )IGJC'I                                                     -  
Railroods                              MILES                                         '         S\ 
Rivers                                                       tf



Jl    'i,b' '                  D       . -       r       S     ->E       teXNkumb I  *nyo 
--X~~~~~.                                     -                              ~edog~ 
-       Railroads                      MILES
Rivers                                                                      -                    t
t. Parts     ibr                                    f                     j                                             o. Baibekoum
Internationol airports
. Inernational boundaries                                                  |
)~~~~~~~~~~
N                                      I G  E  R  I A                                          j         - I           /              - 
Z0 / ( 5 AKIjmbo 0 2 .. , /Nk mb          5        o                                C
.1      Mbfi1:1q9Ui  Ndo  kairi
*AM NOA                              7orcua Bo0                                         C  E N  T R A L
W ba  N, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oBangui
/..Momie   M.o-. d                                                                                 A  F R I C A  N
Ng,ti                                                                                                      R /    On.)
Mel-g8tpr  onigt                 J            0              DtengDeng,s }    \ )8i'
Silabo
EQUATORIAL                      ,z_Ig              {;                              Omq\
I lsa- NWU OJINI_                -                                                                                                 'SN  *,
Ctmoinp   Nltabeison0..--     Anbm            -.^ )                   
Z -s                               j X                              sf~~~~ P E OP LE'S    .A - i  (-                       ' r
,.EQ>UATORiAL,GUINEA  | \    G A BON                           .REP. FTHEC O N G O\%8z) 1B
_  xmbati                                                                    A *  "



