Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15034
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2683-CM)
OCTOBER 6, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency = CFAF*
(Average CFAF per US$)
1988      1989       1990      1991       1992      1993       1994
275       334        280       305        260       288        542
*The CFA Franc (CFAF) is currently tied to the French Franc (FF) at the ratio of FF 1 To CFAF 100.
Prior to January 12, 1994, the rate was FF 1 to CFAF 50.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
SCHOOL YEAR OF BORROWER
October - July
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CENAFOP        Centre National de Formation Professionnelle (National Vocational Training Center)
DETP           Direction de l'Enseignement Technique et Professionnel
(Technical and Vocational Education Directorate)
DPCES          Direction des Projets, des Constructions et des Equipements Scolaires
(School Equipment, Buildings, and Projects Directorate)
DPE            Direction des Projets Education (Education Projects Directorate)
ENI            Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs (Teachers' Training College)
ENIA           Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs Adjoints (College for Teaching Assistants)
GP             Groupe de Pilotage (Steering Group)
IPAR           Institut de Pedagogie Appliquee a Vocation Rurale
(Institute of Applied Research for Rural Training)
MESIRES        Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur et de la Recherche Scientifique
(Ministry of Higher Education, Data Processing, and Scientific Research)
MINEDUC        Ministere de lI'Education Nationale (Ministry of National Education)
MINEFI         Ministere de l'Ecnoniie et des Finances (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MP             Ministere du Plan (Ministry of Planning)
MTPS           Ministere du Travail et de la Prevoyance Sociale (Ministry of Labor and Welfare)
SAF            Section Administrative et Financiere (Administrative and Financial Unit)
SAR/SM         Section Artisanale Rurale/Section Menagere (Rural Handicraft Section/Domestic
Arts Section)
USAID          United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface                                                                     .i
Evaluation Summary.                                                                                                                         ii
1. EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...........................................1
A. BACKGROUND                                       ......................................................................1
B. STATEMENT  AND  EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES .................................................................2
C. ACHIEVEMENT  OF OBJECTIVES                                ..............................................................................3
D. IMPORTANT  FACTORS AFFECTING  THE  PROJECT ................................................................5
E. SUSTAINABILITY  OF RESULTS    ..                              ............................................................................5
F. BANK'S PERFORMANCE ..............................................................................6
G. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE ................................7
H. EVALUATION OF RESULTS ............................7
I. FUTURE OPERATION ............................8
J. MAIN LESSONS ............................8
2. STATISTICAL TABLES ................................................................                                                      10
TABLE1:  SUMMvIARY  OF ASSESSMENTS ............................................................................                           10
TABLE  2: RELATED  BANK  LOANS AND/OR  CREDITS ............................................................ 12
TABLE3: PROJECT  TIMETABLE                                           ............................................................................ 12
TABLE  4: LOAN  DISBURSEMENTS: PLANNED  AND  ACTUAL ............................................... 13
TABLE5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ........................................... 14
TABLE6: KEY  INDICATORS FOR  PROJECT  OPERATION ........................................................ 15
TABLE  7:  STUDIES INCLUDED  IN  PROJECT  ............................................................................ 15
TABLE  8A: PROJECT  COSTS                        ............................................................................ 16
TABLE  8B: PROJECT  FINANCING ............................................................................                              17
TABLE  9: ECONOMIC  COSTS AND  BENEFITS .......................................................................... 17
TABLE  10:  STATUS OF LEGAL  COVENANTS  ............................................................................ 18
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ........................... 28
TABLE  12: BANK  RESOURCES - INPUTS                                  ............................................................................ 28
TABLE  13: BANK  RESOURCES - MISSIONS  ............................................................................ 29
APPENDICES
APPENDIX  A: MISSION  AIDE-MEMOIRE .............................................................................                              33
APPENDIX B: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE AND TRANSLATION ..38
APPENDIX  C: MAP OF CAMEROON .............................................................................                                  62
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
IMPLEMIENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAIN1NG PROJECT
(Loan 2683-CM)
PREFACE
I.    This document is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education
and Vocational Training Project in Cameroon, financed by Loan 2683-CM for US$30.1
million, approved on April 29, 1986 and made effective on February 27, 1987, after the
original September 10, 1986 date was deferred due to the Government's delay in satisfying
the conditions for effectiveness.
2.    The undisbursed balance, i.e., US$21.3 million (71% of the loan), was canceled on
March 7, 1995, although the closing date had been set for June 30, 1995. The last
disbursement of this loan occurred on June 10, 1994. Cofinancing for the project was
neither envisaged nor provided. Parallel financing by USAID was planned, but canceled at
the end of 1988 due to differing views on appropriate strategies for the sector.
3.    This report was prepared by Ms. Catherine Laurent, Task Manager (AF4PH),
Mr. Magaye Gaye, Consultant, and revised by Ms. Penelope Bender, Education Specialist/
Consultant. Comments were received from Mr. David Berk, Division Chief (AF3PH) and
from Mr. P. Hari Prasad, Operations Advisor (AF3DR). Preparation of the report began
with the Bank mission that spent July 17-27, 1994 in Cameroon. Another mission visited
Cameroon from December 5-16, 1994 to collect data and gather information for this
report. The borrower prepared its own project evaluation, which was received by the
Bank in September 1994 (Appendix B), and commented on the draft ICR.
4.    The outcome of the project was unsatisfactory, due to the lack of implementation
of most project components. The Government was neither able to meet its counterpart
funding requirements, nor to manage the project effectively. The main activities carried
out were the production of a National Development Policy Report, which was not
endorsed by the Government during the life of the project, and the financing of technical
assistance and training abroad.



ICR - Cfl4D: Education and Vocational Training Project                          iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINIG PROJECT
(Loan 2683-CM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The project under review (Loan 2683-CM) is the fourth operation financed by the World
Bank for Cameroon's education sector, following the First Education Project (Credit 161-CM),
approved on September 23, 1969; the Second Education Project (Credit 320-CM), approved on
June 30, 1972; and the Third Education Project (Loan 1245T-CM), approved on July 2, 1976.
The first two projects were designed to improve the quality of general education by training
teachers and modifying the education and training system to meet the needs of the modem sector,
and by supporting a more diversified secondary education system and setting up employer-
supported training programs. The third project focused on agricultural and technical training.
B. DEFINITION AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The original objectives of the Fourth Education Project were to: (a) improve the quality of
the primary, secondary and technical education systems; (b) strengthen sector management; and
(c) adapt the vocational training system to the needs of the labor market. The project included the
following components: (a) building and equipping three teacher training colleges; (b) rehabilitating
and equipping ten technical secondary schools; (c) strengthening management of education; (d)
improving adult vocational training by rehabilitating the National Vocational Training Center
(Centre National de Formation Professionnelle, CENAFOP); and (e) improving management of
vocational training (para. 1.7).
3.    Difficulties began prior to effectiveness, when the Government delayed the hiring of local
specialists and the expansion of the Project Directorate. Once the project becane effective,
additional obstacles appeared almost immediately: the Government could not provide counterpart
funds and the Government and the Bank could not agree on implementation of the specific
measures planned, in view of the rapid economic changes taking place. These changes affected the
ability of the labor market to absorb trained graduates and the readiness of the civil service to
employ trained teachers (para. 1. 5).
4.    In 1987, the Government and the Bank began to discuss restructuring the project, to take
the deteriorating economic situation into account and create a more realistic education sector
policy in response. The loan agreement was amended on August 20, 1990 (para. 1.6).



iv                                                                Evaluation Summary
5.    Under the restructured project, the construction component originally planned was
eliminated. The project focused on two main objectives: (a) improving the quality of primary and
technical secondary schools and (b) modifying vocational training to better respond to the needs of
the labor market. In addition, a new objective was introduced: to help the Govemment define an
education policy and a medium-term action plan and strategy, and to assist it in locating the
necessary resources to implement these measures (para. 1.8).
6.    The objectives after restructuring were clear and relevant but did not accurately assess the
Government's commitment to the project. The action plan, however, was overly ambitious in the
area of vocational training and failed to accurately sufficient estimate the demand for trained
workers (para. 1.9).
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.    Project implementation was not satisfactory, as most objectives were not attained.
Achievements were confined to producing a National Development Policy Report and to financing
technical assistance and training abroad. Project implementation encountered serious constraints as
a result of the Government's lack of financial resources, the two-year delay caused by the
restructuring of the project, a lack of coordination among the three ministries involved and poor
administrative and financial management (paras 1.11, 1.26-1.29).
8.    The National Policy Statement for the Education and Training Sector in Cameroon was
submitted to the Government for its approval in 1993. This document was not adopted, and it
appears that the Government was waiting for the National Forum on Education to be organized.
The Forum took place in May 1995 and used the policy statement as a background document, but
the Government has not yet endorsed its recommendations (paras. 1.12-1.13).
9.    A nine-member technical assistance team was put in place in November 1986, to
strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Higher
Education and the University of Yaounde. Members were specialists in the following areas:
project management, procurement, architecture, equipment maintenance, education planning,
school statistics and technical education planning. About fifty Government employees from the
Ministry of National Education were trained abroad in the same fields (paras. 1.14-1.16).
10.   In primary education, the planned in-service teacher training program and program of
minor equipment rehabilitation and replacement in about 27 teacher training colleges and colleges
for teaching assistants (Ecole Normale d'InstituteursEcole Normale d'Instituteurs Adjoints,
ENIIEIA) and the Institute of Applied Research for Rural Training (Institut de P"dagogie
Appliquee a Vocation Rurale, IPAR) in Yaounde were not carried out because of the financial and
economic crisis, which forced the Government to reduce civil service recruitment, so that most of
the teachers graduating from the ENIENIA remained jobless. Most of the teacher training
colleges were closed in 1990-91 (para. 1.19).



ICR - CHAD: Education and Vocational Training Project                            v
11.   In post-primary education, a pilot program to accelerate vocational training in about 20
Rural Handicraft Sections/Domestic Arts Sections, (Section Artisanale Rurale/Section Menagere,
SAR/SM) was not implemented and repairs to the SAR/SM centers were not perforrned because
the Government could not mobilize its funds, which were to cover 20%/o of the cost of the repairs
for these centers (para. 1.20-1.21).
12.   In the area of education management, the capacity building in the Technical and Vocational
Education Department (Direction de l'Enseignement Technique et Professionnel, DETP) and the
Education Projects Department (Direction des Projets Education, DPE) was supposed to be
carried out with the support of technical assistance, training and purchase of vehicles, furnishings,
and equipment. The amount actually spent on technical assistance represented 61% of the initial
budget, while training expenditures accounted for only 36% of the initial budget (paras. 1.22-1.23).
13.   The project proposed to promote vocational training through support for the CENAFOP,
enabling it to adjust its training programs to the needs of the labor market. There were also plans
to improve its current internship programs by introducing new programs and conducting an in-
service training of trainers program, with the assistance of specialists and consultants and with
purchases of equipment for the CENAFOP workshops. Eighty-five percent of the budget, which
was supposed to finance 100% of the consultants' and specialists' services, was actually spent.
However, the training program was not initiated because CENAFOP was no longer able to cover
its operating costs as a result of the elimination of Government subsidies in 1991, and because
there was no demand from employers for graduates of the training (paras. 1.24-1.25).
D. FUTURE OPERATION AND MAIN LESSONS
14.   It is not clear that the Ministry of National Education (Ministere de l'Education Nationale,
MINEDUC) intends to pursue the activities initiated in the areas of technical assistance and
training. When the undisbursed loan balance was canceled in June 1994, the activities in progress
under the project were halted because of a shortage of financial resources, and pending the
conclusions of the National Forum on Education, which was not held until May 1995. However,
to enable CENAFOP to resume operations, the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research (Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur et de la Recherche Scientifique, MESIRES) and
the Ministry of Labor and Welfare (Ministere du Travail et de la Prevoyance Sociale, MTPS)
signed a cooperation agreement with CENAFOP on March 30, 1994. Under this agreement, the
two structures would pool their infrastructure, equipment, human resources, and technical skills in
order to optimize their performance. It is still too soon to evaluate the results of this cooperation
(para. 1.44-1.45).
15.   There are four major lessons to be drawn from the experience with the project. First, it is
obviously essential to the implementation of any project that the counterpart funds be made
available in the amounts and according to the schedule agreed on. Project preparation and
appraisal must result in reasonable estimates of the amounts of counterpart funds that could be
made available. Public expenditure and annual budget reviews should provide the opportunity to
raise these issues and reconmmend corrective action if needed (para. 1.46).



vi                                                                Evaluation Summary
16.   Secondly, the absence of a common policy franework among the three ministries involved
in implementing the project made it difficult to coordinate the management of activities. To
prevent the entities responsible for project implementation from becoming compartmentalized and
to promote communication among the various parties involved in the project, a common policy
framework and coordination mechanisms should be established at the beginning of project
preparation (para. 1.47).
17.   Third, the inefficient managemnent in the administrative and accounting areas showed that
implementation and management of an education project should not be separated from the
MNEDUC's operations staft and that each activity should be assigned to the pertinent operational
department. The Steering Group (Groupe de Pilotage, GP) took over the project accounting,
even though this function was not assigned to it under the loan agreement, due to a shortage of
funds in the DPE (para. 1.48).
18.   Fourth, the fact that the demand for vocational training did not translate into a demand for
trained workers implies that employers were not as involved in the planning and operation of the
training as they should have been. In future, it is essential that employers, economic operators and
professionals participate actively in the various stages of the process of preparing and implementing
vocational training projects (para. 1.49).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2683-CM)
1. EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. BACKGROUND
1.1   The Cameroonian Government has made considerable efforts to provide basic primary
education to all citizens and to increase the population's access to other levels of education.
Prior to 1990, Cameroon's record in increasing access to education was outstanding in
comparison to many other Sub-Saharan African countries. By 1990, the country's primary
education net enrollment rate had reached 76%. Enrollment in secondary education increased
from 7% in 1970 to 28% in 1990.
1.2   Technical and vocational education has suffered from internal inefficiency and failure
to adapt programs to the needs of the economy. The high cost of technical and vocational
education is due in part to the elevated repetition and drop-out rates. Only 18% of students in
the first cycle of technical school eventually graduate, and only 26% graduate from the second
cycle. Moreover, the perception of technical schools as an alternative means of entry to
university has led to an increase in general and theoretical courses, to the detriment of the
practical aspects of technical education.
1.3   On April 29, 1986, the Bank's Executive Board approved a US$30.1 million loan to
the Republic of Cameroon to finance the Education and Vocational Training Project. The
project was a direct response to the objectives in the Government's policy statement: (a)
expansion and improvement of quality of primary education; and (b) development of technical
secondary schools and vocational training, to solve the problem of a shortage of skilled labor,
which the Government felt curbed economic growth.
1.4   When the project was approved, its total cost was estimated at US$61.2 million, and
foreign exchange costs were put at 54%. The Bank was to finance 49% of the total project
cost and the Government the remaining 51%, a share which proved beyond its capacity as the
economy declined. Although the Government did not opt for cofinancing with other donors,
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) was to provide parallel
financing for a certain number of activities designed to improve the quality of primary
education, such as training teachers, regional inspector, and school directors, and refurbishing
and expanding five teacher training colleges.
1.5   Shortly after the loan became effective, the country's financial and economic situation
began to deteriorate, and the Government was unable to mobilize counterpart funds. As a
result, most of the project activities were never initiated, with the exception of technical
assistance and training abroad. Because of the worsening financial and economic climate,
USAID decided that it was no longer necessary to build new teacher training schools and that
efforts should be concentrated instead on improving the qualifications of existing teachers.



2                               ICR - CAMEROON. Education and Vocational Training Project
Unfortunately, the Government and USAID were unable to agree on this point and USAID's
program was canceled at the end of 1988.
1.6   The Government and the Bank began discussions on project restructuring in
September 1987. The project was restructured at the end of 1989 and the loan agreement
was amended on August 20, 1990. The total cost of the restructured project was reduced to
US$37.6 million, about 50% of the cost of the original project. The Bank's financing was set
at US$30.1 million, and the Government was expected to provide US$7.5 million. Under this
new financing arrangement, the Bank's share went from 49% to 80% of project costs.
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.7   The project's original objectives were as follows: (a) improve the quality of primary
education and technical secondary schools by (i) increasing the number of qualified primary
school teachers, (ii) upgrading the practical skills of students in the first and second cycles of
secondary education and (iii) improving education management; and (b) align vocational
training more closely with the labor market by (i) supporting the development of CENAFOP
and (ii) improving the planning and management of vocational training.  The project
implementation agencies were the MINEDUC for part (a) and the MTPS for part (b).
1.8   The restructured project aimed to accomplish the following: (a) preparation of a
national policy statement, a long-term education sector strategy and a medium-term action
plan; (b) implementation of programs to improve the quality of primary education and
vocational training; (c) development of a pilot post-primary vocational training program
linked to regional economic activities; and (d) performance of minor maintenance and repairs
to about 27 colleges for teachers and teaching assistants from ENIIENIA, and the IPAR in
Yaound6, introduction of a small-scale maintenance program in the primary schools and
design of a multi-year maintenance program (1991-93) for school facilities. Specific changes
in the project consisted of adding a new component involving the definition of education
sector policy, developing a pilot vocational training program in about 20 SAR/SM centers and
eliminating the plans to build and equip three ENI/ENIA and to rehabilitate ten technical
schools.
1.9   Objectives (a), (b) and (c) of the restructured project were clearly defined, as were the
means to achieve them, and they responded to the country's sector priorities. They did not,
however, take into account the low level of Government commitment to the project.
Although the vocational training objective was geared to potential demand, the means to
achieve it were inadequate and did not take demand for trained workers sufficiently into
account.
1.10 Two major risks which could adversely affect implementation were identified during
project appraisal: (a) the Government was expected to manage sectoral resources and
develop a strategy qualitatively different from the one it has practiced in the past, which was
based on school construction; and (b) the potential non-availability of counterpart funds.
Project design did not sufficiently address these risks, especially the second, and they
ultimately caused the project to be canceled.



Implementation Assessment                                                     3
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.11  As indicated earlier, only a few project objectives were achieved. These included the
development of a sectoral policy statement and training abroad for MINEDUC personnel.
1.12  Sectoral Policy Statement, Strategy and Action Plan. Presidential Decree No. 281
dated May 3, 1990 established a steering Group (Groupe de Pilotage, GP) to prepare a new
education and training policy, an operational strategy, and a costed action plan. This group
was also charged with coordinating and monitoring implementation of the policy. The GP
was assisted by an outreach and monitoring unit for logistical support. The GP tried to
develop understanding of the major structural weaknesses of the sector, with the support of
available studies and statistics.
1.13  A draft report entitled "National Policy Statement for the Education and Training
Sector in Cameroon" was submitted to the Government in 1993 for its approval. This paper
was the result of joint efforts by the GP, the MINEDUC, the MESIRES, the MTPS, the
University of Yaounde and other educational institutions, with the active participation of the
Ministry of Planning (Ministre du Plan, MP) and Ministry of Economy and Finance
(Minist&re de l'Economie et des Finances, MINEFI). The draft report has not yet been
adopted by the authorities, and it appears that the Government was waiting for the National
Forum on Education to meet in May 1995. However, although the document was used as
background material for the Forum, its recommendations have not yet been adopted by the
Government. The GP was dissolved on March 31, 1993.
1.14  Institution Building. This component of the project was designed to strengthen the
planning and programming capacity of the MINEDUC, the MESIRES and the University of
Yaounde, and to establish a program-budget system and a budget control process for those
institutions. This would have been done by providing technical assistance, training and
purchasing vehicles and equipment.
1.15  The technical assistance team was recruited in November 1986, and consisted of
specialists in the following areas: project management, procurement, architecture and
construction, procurement and maintenance of equipment, education planning, school
statistics, technical education and a general advisor. The restructuring of the project impeded
the efforts of the technical assistants, as there was considerable uncertainty as to the future of
the project.
1.16  About fifty agents from the MINEDUC received training abroad in the above fields.
The training courses varied in length from one to 24 months.
1.17 Two vehicles, equipment and furniture were purchased by the MINEDUC.
Primary Education
1.18  The objectives of this component were as follows:



4                               ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
(a)   Establish an in-service training program for teachers, including textbook
production, with the help of technical assistance;
(b)   Carry out minor repairs and replacement of equipment in about 27 colleges for
teachers and teaching assistants in the ENI/ENIA and the IPAR in Yaounde;
and
(c)  Introduce a small-scale maintenance program in the primary schools and design
a multi-year maintenance program (1991-93) for school facilities.
1.19  The objectives were not attained because of the financial and economic crisis, which
forced the Government to cut back on hiring for the civil service, to the extent that most
teachers graduating from the ENI and ENIA were not hired in the sector. Most teacher
training institutions were closed in 1990/91 and have not yet been reopened. Counterpart
funding for (b) and (c) was not available.
Post-primary Education
1.20 The component was intended to finance the following activities:
(a)   Development of a pilot program for accelerated vocational training in about 20
SAR/SM centers and reorienting the training program to respond better to the
needs of local economies, including a training program for instructors; and
(b)   Repairing and re-equipping the above-mentioned SAR/SM and supplying some
operational materials to others.
1.21  As with other components, the Government was unable to mobilize its share of the
financing, namely 20% of the cost of the work to repair and re-equip the centers. The bidding
documents for the work and the supplies were prepared, but invitations to bid were never
issued.
Management of Education
1.22 This component focused on the following two objectives:
(a)   Strengthening the DETP to enable it to improve planning and management of
technical schools and to develop a system for procurement and maintenance of
technical and scientific equipment, in particular by ensuring more effective
operation of the maintenance and repair service and by providing the services
of specialists and consultants, granting fellowships and purchasing equipment
and supplies; and
(b)   Strengthening the DPE to enable it to improve project preparation and
implementation, by providing the services of specialists and consultants,
granting fellowships and purchasing vehicles, furnishings and equipment.



Implementation Assessment                                                     5
1.23  The technical assistance in these two areas was initiated in November 1986 and 61%
of the budget to cover the services of consultants and specialists was spent. As regards
training expenses, disbursements accounted for 36%  of the original budget.  Only the
objective of strengthening the capacity of the DPE was achieved--in part.
Development of Vocational Training
1.24 This component aimed to support CENAFOP, helping it to gear its training programs
more closely to the needs of the labor market, while improving its current internship
programs, introducing new programs and conducting an in-service training program for
personnel. This should have been accomplished by providing the services of specialists and
consultants, procuring equipment for CENAFOP's workshops and by making minor repairs to
its facilities.
1.25  Eighty-five percent of the budget planned to finance the consultants' and experts'
services was spent. A technical assistance team modified the training programs to meet the
needs of the labor market and formulated proposals to improve the internship programs. The
planned in-service training for personnel, did not take place, however, and no disbursements
were made from the US$500,000 budget established for that purpose, since CENAFOP had
no assurance that it could continue its operations once the Government stopped subsidizing it
in 1991.
D. IMPORTANT FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
1.26 Implementation of the Education and Vocational Training Project was affected by a
number of factors. The first and most important was the Government's shortage of financial
resources. The Government did not honor its covenants with the World Bank and this in turn
caused disbursements to be suspended on several occasions. The situation deteriorated
further in 1987, with the dollar's drop in value vis-a-vis the CFA franc, which saddled the
Government with a US$9.2 million increase in foreign currency expenditures.
1.27  The complexity of the project and the fact that the project involved three different
ministries (MINEDUC, MESIRES and MTPS) also had adverse effects. The absence of a
common policy framework among the ministries created coordination problems and impeded
the effective communication of the parties involved.
1.28 One constraint to project implementation in MINEDUC was the confusion as to the
division of responsibilities between the DPE and the GP's Monitoring and Outreach Unit.
This Unit incurred commitments by issuing purchase orders and was in charge of the project
accounts, whereas these functions were part of the responsibilities of the DPEs Administrative
and Financial Unit (Section Administrative et Financiere, SAF). Furthermore, the lack of
financial controls decreased the effectiveness and transparency of the project's financial
management.
1.29  Another factor affecting the vocational training component was the fact that
CENAFOP was unable to finance its operating costs after 1991.



6                               ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
E. SUSTAINABILITY OF RESULTS
1.30  The activities carried out under the project were limited to the production of a sectoral
policy report and the financing of technical assistance and training abroad. The sectoral policy
report was used as a background document for the National Forum on Education, which was
held in May 1995. The recommendations of the Forum have not yet been endorsed by the
Government.
1.31  The skills transmitted to MINEDUC through technical assistance in the areas of
project management, education planning and production of school statistics are not sufficient
to allow staff to competently carry out their work and will need to be complemented by
additional training.
1.32 The knowledge and skills transferred to CENAFOP through the technical assistance
program have not been used since 1991, the date on which the institution ceased operating.
1.33  In sum, achievements of the project are very partial and preliminary and sustainability
will require complementary activities.
F. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
1.34  The Bank allocated considerable resources to the various stages of the project cycle:
336 weeks at an approximate cost of US$939,400 (see Table 10). The cost of these resources
represents 10.4% of the funds disbursed (US$9 million). The time was spent as follows: 188
weeks for project preparation, prior to Board approval; 31 weeks to make the loan effective;
112 weeks for supervision (15 missions) over a period of seven years, at the rate of 16 weeks
a year; and six weeks for project completion.
1.35  Project identification and preparation began in 1980. The amount of time spent
preparing the project, until it became effective, was due to its complexity, the problems
involved in hiring technical assistants and the lengthy bureaucratic procedures of the
Government. Bank performance in preparation is rated satisfactory on balance, due to the
effort to match project objectives with the Government's sector strategy and to develop the
project cooperatively with the Government.
1.36  Bank performance during appraisal is rated deficient, due to the inaccurate assessment
of the: (a) Government's motivation and capacity to provide counterpart funds; (b) changing
economic climate and the ability of the labor market to absorb skilled graduates; and (c)
institutional capacity available to implement a complex project involving several different
ministries.
1.37  Bank staff initiated the restructuring of the project, by asking the Government to draw
up new terms of reference for the restructured project and showed flexibility by agreeing to
increase its share of the financing. Nevertheless, the Bank twice sent no supervision missions
for an entire year, despite major problems encountered in implementing the project. The Bank
should have proposed to the Government that the project, or at least the vocational training
component, be closed earlier, in light of the persistent difficulties and the cost of resources



Implementation Assessment                                                    7
used (IBRD loan), especially when CENAFOP virtually stopped operating. The Bank's
performance during supervision is rated deficient.
G. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
1.38  During identification and preparation, the Borrower's performance was rated
satisfactory, due to its participation and initiative in identifying project components.
1.39 Borrower performance in implementation is rated deficient. During implementation,
the Government's performance was adversely affected by a shortage of financial resources and
the absence of tight controls over the administrative and financial management of the
components implemented by the MINEDUC and the MTPS. The Bank had to engage in a
lengthy dialogue with the Government before the latter would agree to restructuring the
project. This poor performance did not permit the Government to respect several project
covenants (see Table 10), leading to a deficient rating in covenant compliance. As of
December 1994, six months after the loan was canceled, the Treasury still owed the
MINEDUC CFAF 108 million in counterpart funds for the project.
1.40        The administration and financial management of the project in the MINEDUC
were not satisfactory, despite the training provided. Some expenditures were not made to the
benefit of the project. Some of the project's assets, including two vehicles and a computer,
disappeared, yet the project management never conducted an investigation, initiated legal
proceedings, or made any attempt to identify and prosecute the responsible parties. The
accounts kept by the GP's Outreach and Monitoring Unit were rudimentary and were not
based on a proper accounting system. There was no manual of administrative and accounting
procedures. Under the overall responsibility of the MTPS, CENAFOP was charged with
keeping the accounts for the vocational training component. The project completion mission
was unable to examine these accounts, since CENAFOP closed its doors and furloughed its
staff on December 5, 1994.
1.41  Borrower performance in operation is rated deficient, as there has been no evidence of
its determination to continue or to maintain activities begun under the project.
H. EVALUATION OF RESULTS
1.42  The project outcome is rated unsatisfactory. This evaluation is based on the following
elements: (a) non-approval by the Government of the report entitled "National Policy
Statement for the Education and Training Sector"; (b) failure of the technical assistance and
training to strengthen the institutional capacity of the MINEDUC; (c) failure to achieve the
primary education objectives; (d) failure to implement the post-primary education program
(SAR/SM); (e) the fact that the education management program was only partially completed
in the areas of technical assistance and training; (f) failure to implement the vocational
training development program; (g) the non-sustainability of the very limited achievements;
and (h) lack of transparency in project management.
1.43  Technical assistance to MINEDUC cost US$2.7 million. This was not cost-effective
in view of the results achieved: creation and updating of a national file on 1986 and 1987



8                               ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
school statistics for institutions under the authority of MINEDUC; completion of a standard
calendar for primary education; preparation of a computerized data bank to identify the
various institutions involved in education; preparation of a nomenclature of school equipment;
and preparation of studies and organization of training seminars. The technical assistance
provided to CENAFOP cost US$4.4 rnillion. It was impossible to evaluate the results of this
assistance because there was nobody at CENAFOP to report on them.
L FUTURE OPERATIONS
1.44  It does not appear that the Government has any intention of pursuing the activities
begun in the areas of technical assistance and training at the MINEDUC.  Since the
undisbursed balance of the loan was canceled in June 1994, the activities initiated under the
project have been halted, due to a lack of financial resources and because the Government
wanted to wait for the conclusions of the National Forum on Education.
1.45 Nevertheless, in order to put CENAFOP back in operation, the MESIRES and the
MTPS signed an agreement with CENAFOP on March 30, 1994. Under this agreement, the
two structures would pool their infrastructure, equipment, human resources and skills in an
effort to optimize their performance. It is still too soon to evaluate this cooperation.
J. MAIN LESSONS
1.46  There are four major lessons to be drawn from the project. First, that counterpart
funds must be made available in the amounts agreed upon and according to the agreed
schedule and appraisal must produce reasonable estimates of the counterpart funds that could
be made available. The borrower must bear in mind that it has signed commitments and is
obliged to do everything possible to honor them, by incorporating these funds in its national
budget, among other strategies. Public expenditure and annual project budget reviews should
provide the opportunity to raise these issues and recommend appropriate actions.
1.47  Secondly, the absence of a common policy framework among the three ministries
involved in implementing the project made it difficult to coordinate the management of project
activities. To prevent the entities responsible for project implementation from becoming
compartmentalized and to promote communication among the various parties to the project, a
common policy framework and coordinating structure should be established from the very
start of the project. In the future, it would be better if there were a single executing agency,
which implies that the project focus either on primary/secondary education or on higher
education, or that the Government merge MINEDUC and MESIRES and limit the
involvement of non-education ministries.
1.48  Although the idea of creating a GP was a good one at the outset, it did not function
properly, as it encroached on the work of the DPE, thereby creating confusion as to division
of responsibilities as well as frustration in that Directorate. This experience showed that
project implementation and management should not be separated from the operational staff of
the MINEDUC and that every activity should be assigned to the appropriate operational
office. In the area of accounts and administration, a prerequisite for any future operation
should be the strengthening of the School Equipment, Buildings and Projects Directorate's



Implementation Assessment                                                       9
(Direction des Projets, des Constructions et des Equipements Scolaires, DPCES) financial
and administrative unit. This could be accomplished by doing the following: (a) setting up an
accounting and budget system for the project; (b) drafting a manual of administrative and
accounting procedures; (c) identifying and installing effective accounting software; and (d)
training accounting personnel.
1.49  Fourth, the fact that the demand for vocational training did not equal demand for
trained workers leads one to believe that employers and other actors in the private sector were
not as involved in planning this training as they should have been. Experience has shown that
any worthwhile strategy for developing a vocational training program must bring together
employers, economic operators, and professionals in the various stages of preparing and
implementing a vocational training project.



10                               ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
2. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives      Subttialhd      Partial "  N.ligibXe   N/A
Macro polices
Sector policies                                     /
Financial objectives                                             V
Institutional development                           V
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction
Gender issues                                                                V
Other social objectives                                          V
Environmental objectives             V_
Public sector management
Private sector development                                       /
Others (specify)
B. Promt sustaabiity           Likely            Unlikely           Uncerain
l          l                   I      .           l                   I~~~~



Statistical Tables                                                                     11
an B.mnke  race                HglStiftoyUinsatisfaictory
s ghlacoy         Stsatr
Identification                                           V
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
Di. Borower pedormance        Vay satisfactory       Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory
Preparation
Implementation
Compliance with covenants
Operation
L Assessment of outcome            High              Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory
satisfactory
,   ..  ,.  ,  ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f



12                                ICR - CAMEROON: Educahon and Vocational Training Project
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Name of loan/credit                   Purpose                Yea         Status
approved
Previous operations
* Credit 161 CM      Improve the quality of general secondary  1969    Closed - 1979
First Education      education and industrial and agncultural
Project              training through teacher training.
* Credit 320 CM      Irnprove the quality of secondary education  1972    Closed - 1982
Second Education     through the technical and vocational training
Project              of teachers and the financing of studies
relative to agricultural education and rural
training in the northern part of the country.
* Loan 1245 T CM     Assist with technical training through: (i)  1976    Closed - 1984
Third Education      construction of the lower secondary school
Project              in Douala; (ii) improvement of technical
education planning; and (iii) construction of
a new secondary technical school in
Ngaoundere.
Concurrent operations
* Loan 3089 CM       Help to reestablish the financial equilibrium  1989    Closed
Structural           of public enterprises (and) banks and
Adjustment Loan      promote the production of marketable
products.
* Loan 3206 CM       Support the Government's poverty reduction  1990    Closed - 1994
Social Dimensions    strategy through: (i) improvements in the
of Adjustment        areas of family planning, health and
education; (ii) job creation; (iii) increased
participation of women in development; (iv)
support for micro enterprises; (v) strength-
ening of institutional training capacities and
implementation of social policies.
Future operations
Fifth Education      The objectives of the Fifth Education     N.A.     In course of
Project              Project will be defined following the              preparation.
National Forum on Education, held in May
1995, based on the outcomes of the Forum
and a series of studies.



Statistical Tables                                                                   13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Stage of project cyde            Date planned                   Actual date
Identification                                                  June 1980
Preparation                         1982                         1982
Appraisal                           May 1984                    May 1984
Negotiations                        December 1984               January 27-31, 1986
Board approval                      April 1985                  April 29, 1986
Signature                           July 10, 1986               July 10, 1986
Effectiveness                       July 1986                   February 27, 1987
Restructuring                       Unscheduled                 August 20, 1990
Project completion                  December 31, 1992           June 10, 1994*
Closing                             June 30, 1993               June 10, 1994
* Corresponds to date of cancellation of undisbursed loan balance.
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: planned and actual (in US$ '000)
Pisa year            1987   1988  1989  1-990    1991   1992   19X3    14    1M
Plnned (SAR)          400   2,000  6,000  12,000  19,000  27,000  30,100
Planned (regruct.)         -         -    6,500   9,000   14,000  21,000  25,900  30,100
Actual               1,235  3,992  5,300   6,564   8,210   8,298   8,671   8,798
Actual/Restrut.(%)***    309   200    88   101      91     59      41      34
Date of last disbursement: June 10, 1994
* *   After restructuring
*** Through 1989, percentages are calculated based on pre-restructuring data



14                               ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
No indicators were given in the SAR. However, the points listed in the following table
may serve as evaluation criteria.
Peformaince indicatr                Pnned Ac tual W.
Studies
1. Primary teacher training                                Study conducted in 1987
2. Statement of National Policy                            Document drafted in 1993
for Cameroon's Education and
Training Sector
Civil works
4. Rehabilitation and refiarbishing   Around 27 ENI/ENlAs  No results
of the ENI/ENIAs and of the
Applied Research istitute (IPAR)
5. Rehabilitation and refurbishing   Around 20 SAR/SMs     No results
of SARISM centers
Training
6. Training of MINEDUC staff                               50 staff members trained
7. Vocational training in the  Around 20 SAR/SMs           No results
SAR/SM centers
8. Vocational training by      Revision of training programs  No information available
CENAFOP                        to improve labor market     on the technical assistance
relevance                  provided
9. Training of CENAFOP trainers  Planned budget: US$500,000  Expenditure budget
untouched



Statistical Tables                                                             15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
MINDUC has no plans to operate the project, thus there are no indicators for operation. No|
|indicators were given in the SAR.l
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose              Status             iinpat
L Evaluation
1. Prinary teacher    Propose strategies to  Study conducted    Weak owing to non-
training            improve teacher quality  in 1987         implementation of
and efficiency                          USAID program
2. Preinvestment    Propose strategies to  No information
studies - Vocational   strengthen Vocational    available,
Training            Training in the areas of   CENAFOP having
planning, subjects taught  closed
and personnel training
I. Restructuring
1. Statement of     Analysis of present    Study conducted
National Policy for    education system,   in 1993: findings
Cameroon's          definition of a strategy    not yet adopted
Education and       and an action plan for
Training Sector     implementation of a new
national education policy



16                                          ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
Table SA: Project Costs (in US$ million)
i, i:,pnT .-. us .g. .oa    For. .Thai     Local F..o.r..    Total   Local   F or. T:otaliiES ..f, -i-i. . -E    i -: C-i iS2
A. Investment costs
I1. Civil Works                               12.7      4.9    17.6
2. Architectural Fees                          0.4      0.1     0.5 
3. Equipment, Furniiture                       1.9    10.2    12.1                                          2.6      2.6
4. Specialist Services                         0.9      7.5     8.4                                         7.0      7.0
5. Traininig                                   0.1      1.4     1.5                                         0.4      0.4
R. Recurrent costs
I .Salaries                                    3.9       -      3.9
2. Consumables                                 1.9      1.5      3.4
Financial contingencies                     5.3     5.6    10.6
Physical contingencies                      1.6     1.6      3.2
TOTAL (SAR)                                                                                               Jof2$ 6f 00  t.
II RJSTRUCTURMN
A. Statement of Policy (Part A)
I1. Consultant and Specialist Services                                   0.7      1.1     1.8        -      0.2     0.2
2 . Equipment, materials, vehicles, furniiture                           0.2      0.1      0.3     0.0      0.1      0.1
3 . Operating exp~enses                                                  0.3        -     0.3      0.3        -      0.3
B. Institution building, primary and post
primary education, educational management
(Parts B-E)
4. Rehabilitation and maintenance work                                   1.8      3.3      5.1       -        - -
5. Equipment, iaterials, vehicles, furniture                             0.8      3.1     3.9      0.0      0.0     0.0
6. Consultant and specialist services                                      -      4.5     4.5        -      2.7      2.7
7. Trining                                                               4.5      1.0     5.5        -      0.7      0.7
8. Operating expenses                                                      -        -       -      0.9        -     0.9
C. Vocadional Training (Part IF)
9. Rehabilitation and nuaintenance work                                  0.2        -     0.2        -        --
10. Equipment, materials, vehicles, furiture,                            0.1      5.0     5.1        -        -       -
computers
11. Consultant and specialist services                                   0.8     5.5      6.3        -     4.8      4.8
12. Training                                                               -     0.4      0.4        -        -       -
Financial contingencies                                              09 233            3.2        - 
Physical contingencies                                               03 067            1.0
TOTAL (lAtructuring)                                                     06    270   l376 :    1.2          8.      9.7



Statistical Tables                                                                17
Table SB: Project Financing (In US$ million)
Planned (SAR)  Planned (Restict.)            Actual
Source         Local  For,   Total   Local  For.   Total  Local  For.    Tot
costs  exch.           costs  exch.          costs  exch.
costs                  costs                 costs
IBRD                    30.1    30.1    3.1   27.0   30.1    0.3       8.5      8.8
Government       28.6    2.5    31.1    7.5       _     7.5    0.9    =         0.9
TOTAL            28.6   32.6    61.2   10.6   27.0   37.6    1.2    8.5         9.7
Table 9: Economic costs and benefits
No efforts were made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic
rate of return (ERR) and therefore there is no baseline against which to judge a re-estimate
for evaluation purposes. Furthermore, no paramneters were given at appraisal with regard to
cost-effectiveness.  As few of the project objectives were reached, it would not be
productive to attempt to estimate current NPV or ERR.



18                                                                     ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
;~~~~Sco o f    Tynple of    Copjie                    Dat        Aen    e J01  Descriptn of Co:vnat                   ReDFl
Covenant        Planned      d~AntenddcWo
ULSAR
2.02 (b)    Financial    Partial                             The Borrower shall, for the purposes of  Special Account A was used
Parts A through E of the Project, open   for certain ineligible and
and maintain in CFAF a special account  unsupported expenses.
(Special Account A) and, for the   Special Account B was
purposes of Part F of the Project, open   never utilized.
and maintain in CFAF a special account
(Special Account B), in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into
and payments out of the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to the
Loan Agreement.
3.01 (a)    Counterpart  Partial                             The Borrower shall provide, promptly    Certain counterpart funds
funds                                           as needed, the funds, facilities, services   were partially disbursed,
and other resources required for the  others not at all.
Project.
3.02        Procurement  Partial                             Except as the Bank shall otherwise  The procurement procedures
agree, procurement of the goods, works   did not always comply with
and consultants' services required for    the agreements with the
the Project and to be financed out of the  Bank (see the internal audit
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed   report of June 30, 1992).
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.



Statistical Tables                                                                                                      19
Section of    Type of    Compliance    Date    Amended         Description of Covenant                   Remarks
Loan      Covenat                  Planned    Date
4.01 (a)   Accounting/  Partial                           The Borrower shall maintain or cause    The accounting system used did not
Audit                                         to be maintained separate records and    guarantee exhaustive reporting of
accounts adequate to reflect m     Part A-E operations executed by
accordance with sound accounting   MINEDUC. With respect to Part F,
practices the operations, resources and   executed by MTPS, the mission was
expenditures in respect of the Project of  not able to examine the accounting
the departnents or agencies of the  records.
Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
4.01 (b)(ii)  Accounfing/  Yes, for                       The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank   The audit reports for 1991 and 1992
Audit       Special                           not later than six months after the end    were furished to the Bank with
Account A                         of each fiscal year the audit report  some delay. The final audit report
relating to such year.             was received on June 14, 1995.
4.01 (c)   Accounting/                                    For all expenditures with respect to
Audit                                         which withdrawals are requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
Yes for Parts                    (i) maintain or cause to be maintained,
A through E                       in accordance with Section 4.01(a),
of the                            separate records and accounts
Project                           reflecting such expenditures;
Partial                          (ii) retain, until one year after the  Certain records have been missing
Closing Date, all records (contracts,  since the GP was dissolved.
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such
expenditures.



20                                                                     ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
StioVo         Tye of      Coi;ompace    Date Planned    Aztended;&         Don of Cov0enalt                     Remark
4.01 (c)     Accounting/    Yes                                      (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to
Audit                                                   examine such records;
Yes for                                  (iv) ensure that such separate accounts are
Parts A                                  included in the annual audit referred to in
through E of                             Section 4.01 (b) and that the report thereof
the Project                              contains, in respect of such separate
accounts, a separate opinion by the said
auditors as to whether the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were intended.
_______''..0: :S00;d          ___   __    __   _  __   _   ______               A.f:   rri2n uar    Zduc a 0 t0X'X'X' 0''S;'"0 0000'ion' P
Schedule 5    Implementation  Partial                                The Borrower will examine together with the  Study conducted in
(2) (a) (i)                                                          Bank the study on primary teacher training    1987, but no
and will start to implement it following the    construction of the
opening of the three ENIAs.            three ENIAs.
Schedule 5   Implementation  Partial     Starting 12/31/86           Preparation and submission to the Bank of    Report submitted
(2)(aXii)                                and annually by             an annual report on the primary teacher  for 1986/87, but
12/31. Program              development program to be financed by US-   never implemented.
to be submitted             AID, followed by an exchange of views.  USAID financing
and implemented             Program to be submitted to the Bank and  ended in 1988.
by June 1990.              implemented.



Statistical Tables                                                                                                     21
Sebtion of     Type of      Compliance    Date    Amended         Description of Covenant                Remarks
Loan        Covenant                   Plamned    Date
Agreement
B. Education Management
Schedule 5   Implementation                                    Strengthening of the Planning   No information available.
(2) (b)(i)                                                     Division through studies on
MINEDUC's staff development
program, and implementation of a
data processing system.
Implementation                                   Strengthening of the Technical and
Vocational Education Division
through:
Schedule S   Implementation   Partial                          Collection of data on school facilities  Statistics updated for 1986 and
(2) (b)(ii)                                                    and staff;                       1987 only.
Schedule 5   Implementation   Partial                          Development of a system for
(2) (b)(ii)                                                    evaluating existing courses and for
teacher training;
Schedule 5   Implementation   Partial                          Creation of mechanisms to
(2) (b)(ii)                                                    strengthen the linkage between
technical education and employment
opportnities;
Schedule 5   Implementation   Partial                          Improvement of resource planning    Imcomplete
(2) (bXii)                                                     and management;
Schedule 5   Implementation   Partial                          Staffing of the Maintenance Unit  Three local specialists trained.
(2) (bXii)                                                     with four local specialists to develop
a procurement and maintenance
system.



22                                                                     ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
E  ;0  000t f I ;: 1 :A;:0 : I 0 ;C.Developmet of V1ct xIo: al
Support for the CENAFOP
through:
Schedule 5 (2)  Implementation  Partial                         Closer employer participation in
(c)(i)                                                          CENAFOP's management and in
the design and implementabon of
training and programs;
Schedule 5 (2)  Implementation                                  Assistance in the improvement of   No infonnation available.
(c)(u)                                                          existing vocational training centers
and in the creation of new
institutions;
Schedule 5 (2)                                                  Proposals for training programs    No information available.
(Cxiii)                                                         for trainers in other institutions;
and
Schdule 5 (2)                                                   A contribution to the development  No information available.
(cxiv)                                                          of rules and regulations for the
vocational training subsector.



Statistical Tables                                                                                                     23
Section of      Type of     Compliance    Date    Amended             Description of Covenant            Remarks
Loan         Covenant                  Planned     Date
Agreement
D. Vocational Training
Mangement
Strengthening of the Directorate of
Manpower, Vocational Training and
Projects, through:
Schedule 5 (2)  Implementation                                  Reorganization and staffing of the Sub-  No infornation
(d)(i)                                                          Directorate for Manpower and Employment  available.
to carry out manpower surveys and
establish a viable permanent data base;
Schedule 5 (2)  Implementation                                  Reinforcement of the Sub-Directorate for    No information
(dXii)                                                          Vocational Training in the areas of    available.
planning, curricula and staff development,
institutional management and performance
evaluation.
Schedule 5     Implementation  Partial    Starting              Preparation and submission to the Bank, for  Done for Part C of
(2)(e)                                     12/31/86             review and approval, of proposed staff  the Project
and at               development and training programs to be  (Education
six-month            carried out under Parts C through E of the    Management).
intervals            Project, including a plan of execution and
the names and qualifications of the
candidates for fellowships.
Schedule 5     Implementation  Partial                          Upon completion of the training, the persons  Done for Part C of
(2)(e)                                                          trained shall serve at least two years in the   the Project.
positions for which they have been trained.



24                                                                     ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
;;0;; Seetinti0 of0 ; Type tof    ;;0Comp lia |Dae PAmnded                        ti  of Covenant                 Remarks
U#M      Coenat                                      Date
A. Statemnt of fokey
Schedule 5,   Study         Yes          Sept. 30, 1990    1993     The Borrower will furnish to the Bank the  Done in 1993.
amended:                                                            draft statement of education policy.
(2)(a)(ii)
Schedule 5,   Study         Yes          Nov. 30, 1990    1993      The Borrower will exchange views with the  Done in 1993.
amended:                                                            Bank on the various elements forming part of
2aXaXiii)                                                          the Borrower's study of the education sector.
Schedule 5,   Study         Yes          March 31, 1991  1993       Submission of the study to the Bank for  The Bank transmitted its
amended:                                                            review and comments.                    comnments to the
(2)(aXiii)                                                                                                  Government in July 1993.
A. Inst1utio Building
Schedule 5,   Financial                  Dec. 31, 1991              The Borrower will ensure that the program  No information available.
amended:                                                            budgeting system and the budget monitoring
(2)(b)(iu)                                                          process included in Part B of the Project are in
place.
<-~~ _ ;;; _ __ _;; ; _ : _ _040 _~~. P 090fiizwyq Educaton  _   __
Schedule 5,   Implementation  Yes        Starting Dec.              Preparation and furnishing to the Bank of
amended:                                 31, 1986                   progress reports on the development of the
(2XcXi)                                  through Project            primary teacher training program.
completion



Statistical Tables                                                                                                         25
Section of      Type of     Compliance        Date       Amended           Description of Covenant           Remarks
Loan         Covenant                     Planned         Date
Agreemnt                          ___
Schedule 5,   Implementation   Yes         Dec. 1990                   Submission of the program to the   Program was never
amended:                                                               Bank prior to its implementation by  implemented.
(2)(c)(i)                                                             the ENI/ENIAs.
Furnishing to the Bank for approval
Schedule 5,   Implementation   Yes                                     detailed plans including: (a) the
amended:                                                               specific location of each college
(2)(c)(ii)                                                             concerned; and (b) the detailed design
and rehabilitation costs for each such
college.
Schedule 5,   Implementation   Partial     Dec. 31, 1990               Furnishing to the Bank for review and   Program was never
amended:                                                               comments proposals for restructuring   implemented.
(2)(c)(iii)                                                           the Applied Research Institute (IPAR),
so as to pernit the utilization of its
facilities for primary teacher training.
Schedule 5,    Maintenance    Partial                                  Furnishing to the Bank for approval:    Program was never
amended:                                                               (a) detailed execution arrangements    implemented.
(2)(c)(iv)                                                             between MINEDUC and the Parents'
Associations concerned; and (b)
detailed multi-year maintenance plans
for the schools.
Schedule 5,    Maintenance    Partial      Dec. 31, 1990               Furnishing to the Bank for review and   Program was never
amended:                                                               comments the multi-year maintenance   implernented.
(2)(c)(v)                                                              program proposed above.



26                                                                      ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
Secton Of      Type of      Comphance  Date Planned   Amended           Descr nof Covenant               R ak
Loan    ~~Covenant                                  Date
Agreement
D. Post-priaryi   Education
Schedule 5    Implementation  Partial    Dec. 30, 1990              Furnishing to the Bank for review and
amended:                                                            comments the redefined structure and
(2)(d)(i)                                                           objectives of the SAR/SM centers.
Schedule 5    Implementation  Partial    June 30, 1991              Furnishing to the Bank for approval the
amended:                                                            details of tramning activities to be
(2)(d)(ii)                                                          carried out in each SARJSM center.
Schedule 5    Implementation  Partial                               Furnishing to the Bank for approval the
amended:                                                            detailed rehabilitation plans for the
(2)(d)(iii)                                                         centers.
E. Educationi Mnament
Schedule 5    Studies        Yes         June 30, 1991              Upon completion of the Education   MINEDUC
amended:                                                            Policy study (Part A), the Borrower  reorganization is
(2)(e)                                                              will furish to the Bank for review and   in progress.
comments its proposals for
restructuring DPE and the MINEDUC
Division of Projects and External
Cooperation.
I. Vocational Training
Schedule 5    Studies                    July 31, 1991              Furnishing to the Bank for review and    No information
amended:                                                            comments an analysis of CENAFOP's   available.
(2)(f)(ii)                                                         total training costs for the previous
fiscal year.



Statistical Tables                                                                                                      27
Section of     Type of     Compliance    Date Planned    Amended       Description of Covenant        Remarks
Loan        Covenant                                     Date
Agreement
Schedule 5,   Financial                  Starting June 30,            Furnishing to the Bank for   No information
amended:                                 1990 and every               review and comments the draft   available.
(2)(f)(ii)                               June 30                      operating budget for the coming
thereafter.                 fiscal year, including expected
revenues.
Schedule 5,   Implementation  Partial                                 Elimination of ten trainers from
amended:                                                              CENAFOP's budget and
(2)(f)(iii)                                                           proposal to the Bank for
approval of eight candidates to
replace said trainers, together
with the system of compensation
for trainers.
Schedule 5,   Implementation  Partial    Every 6 months               Preparation and furnishing to the  Done for Part E,
amended:                                 stauting                     Bank for review and approval of  Education
(2)(g)                                   December 31,                the proposed staff development   Management.
1990 and through            and training programs to be
Project                     carried out under Parts E and F
completion.                 of the Project.



28                                      ICR - CAMEROON.: Education and Vocational Training Project
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Title and number of Guideline             Comment onD lo
2. O.D. 13.05 Project supervision (para. 4)  The Bank did not supervise the Project for a
period of one year, twice, when the Project was
experiencing difficulties.
Table 12: Bank Resources - Inputs
Stage orPrjectCycle               PlAnned       Amended -  1     t-l
Up to appraisal (preparation, preappraisal)                             102.6
Appraisal -* Board                                                       85.2
Board -+ Effectiveness                                                   31.7
Supervision                                                             111.6
Completion                                                                5.0
Total                       372.4                    336.1*
Representing a direct total cost of US$939,400 at January 20, 1995.



Statistical Tables                                                                                       29
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance Rating
Stags of      *ontht    No. of    No. of       M 6i3!wion    Status uf    Develop-    rype uf pruhhlem
Project cycle    year     persos   days in      members'    implemen-        mcnt   |
the rield(   %pecialization  tation     impact
Through        02-03/78                8            SE                               1
Appraisal
04/78       1         8            SE                                         S
02/03/79     3        18         SE (2), A
06-07/80     5        13        SE (3), A, E                                   0
11/80       3        14        SE (2), A                                     M
01/81       4                   SE (3), A
03/82       2         6          DC, A                  .  
06/82       1         8            E                     _
10/82       4         9        SE (3), A
06/83       3        15         SE (2), E                                    M
10/83                20         DDC, C
01-02/84     2        12             C                                         M
05/84       4        23       DC, RS, A, C
Appraisal      03-04/85      5        23        ES (3), E, A
through Board
Board through    12/85       1        11            A                                         M
effectiveness
Board through    07/86       1         4            A              1           1              TA
effectiveness
Board through    11/86       2        11             A             1           1              M
effectiveness
Board through    02/87       1         5             A             1           1              M
effectiveness                                                                        __



30                                                ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
Stages of Mofktht    No. ~or    N6. of    ~Mission        Staftus of   Deveo-    Type o problem
plrojc cycl      yea      persona    aylm in     mmbers    implenien-    ment
the field   spcialzation     ftati      Impact
Supervision      03/86       2         11          A (2)                              l        M
Supervision      06/87       2         NA                           1           1              F
Supervision      09/87        1        11            SE            3           3               F
Supervision      11/88        1       NA             SE            3           2               F
Supervision      06/89       1        NA             SE            3           2               0
Supervision      05/90       3        32         SE, ES.TTS         1           1              0
Supervision      12/90       4          15         SE, PES                                     F
Supervision      04/91        1       NA             SE            3           2               0
Supervision      10/91       2         20         SE, PIS, C       3           2               M
Supervision    05-06/92      2         33          SE, PIS         3           2               M
Supervision    02-03/93      4          15        SE (3), FA       3           2               M
Supervision      04/93       3           7       PIS, 00, FA    No rating   No rating          F
Supervision      02/94       2          7           SE, E       No rating   No rating          -
Supervision      04/94       5         21       SE, E (2), PIS    NA          NA               0
Supervision      07/94                  10        SE, E (2)       HU           U               0
Completion       12/94        1         12          C, FA                                     0, M
A      ARCHTECT,                      TYPES OF PROBLEMS FOR PERFORMANCE RATINGS:
C   5 CONSULTANT                          F  =  FUND AVAILABILITY,
DC     DIVISION CHIEF                     S  =  STUDIES
DDC s DEPUTY DIVISION CHIEF               M  =  MANAGEMENT
SE     EDUCATION SPECIALIST,              0  =  OVERALL STATUS.
E      ECONOMST,                          TA  =  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRESS,
FA     FINANCIAL ANALYST
ES  - EXECUTION SPECIALIST            PERFORMANCE RATINGS:
PES    PROJECT EXECUTION SPECIALIST       I  =  PROBLEM FREE OR MINOR PROBLEMS,
PIS    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SPECIALIST  2  =  MODERATE PROBLEMS,
00     OPERATIONS OFFICER                 3  =  MAJOR PROBLEMS WITH SOLUTION UNDERWAY,
RS     TRAINING SPECIALIST                4  =  MAJOR PROBLEMS WITHOUT SOLUTION UNDERWAY
TTS = TECHNICAL TEACHING SPECIALIST              (NONE IN THIS PROGRAM).



APPENDICES



Appendix A                                                                              33
. lission de la Banque niondiale
Yaound6. Cameroun
Mission d Educaricn
du 17 au 17 juillcr 1994)
Introducrion
itmnes 3. .\4oll-Drucker (spicialisre en ;dzz-grion). C. Laur n (sonorrusre) du Dearreinenr di
I'Afnique oc-:d.zWale et c.=rale de la Bancue mandiale Cc M. 1. NJangsi (6conornmsre i la Mfission
Rcsidene). om ertecue une mission au Ctnrouxn. du L7 au 27 juille: 1994. La mission avair pour
objecrikf principal de faire Ic point sur la clocure du 4nme Projea Eduion/Formtion lr La prroararion
et l'orienmrion d'u  5&me Projet Education. La mission a eu.'= c urrts. des discussions avec leurs
Excellences IM. Robert Mbella Mbappd, Mini.sre: de P'Education Nationale ea M. Roger Melmgui.
Minisue Delegut a l'Economie et auax Finances charge du Budger  Ls conclusions er r-commaandaions
som prsem  5i-dzssous.
1.     Ctme du 4me Projet: Le riquar des fonds aon diss   du Prje: IV a ee mim   le  0
juin dernier aIts compres spciaux A et B orm 6rr soclis par la C2ss Autono    d'Amorressem
(CAA) le L2 juille denier auprs de Standard Charb erd Bank au profit de la BIRD. Le raport d'audi
du 31 mars 1993 est prct et sem transmis officiellem a   I PIDA dans les meillems dilais. Ces    ons
per-mro  de procder sans dei3i i la cl6rure di ce on6ration dans ls livres de la BID. L'audiz fi=k
de fin de projer devra erre ris d'ici le 30 septnbre 1Q94. Las didils pour la oreparation diu rappozt
d'achiverneat du Projet rV som prdsenri dans le rapport de Mine Laurem (en amnee). Le service
tecbnique du MINEDUC a dcji demarrd I'iaborazion du projs dae rDport d'6vahuaroa.
2.     Vole oidi=don du Progrzme d'Acrn Sodale (PAS): Tous les dossiers de consilriaon
pour la rebabiton de salUes de classes om erE excis et diposes au MNEDUC. Le voler ducarion
(il s'ieve i 6.030.000.000 FCFA. comprez  quarm souscompsane) sera rniisi auozD dui PRAS
dans le comere d Creau i la Relance Fconomique (ERC).
3.     Prparaton d'um 5jzze Prje Edaon/Toraon CAMMA. L: NM4EDUC a saisi Ic
MNisz:re de 1'Econiie et des Fnances afm q= c  denier addss I l'IDA la require pour l'avance
de priptr      de proja (PPF) d'm 5ame Projet Eucarion/Form ron (vof l'annee). Ce PPF fiancera
les ^inle po=cEles en vue de prparer les Et    GC      x de l'E    on ains aue le 5me ProjeL
Uine Celule de REflexion a ie nor e      au MWEDUC par arr8ri du 13 avril 1994 pour assurer ces
4.     Las rers de rifren    pozr la rialisarioa de rrouis  udes ocruefiCs om 6tE fialis6s. n3 sagir
d'une iude  ur le ct  at    k Inanczme  de l'ed;carion an Camzam  d'=m  ap ic -ds    r
et moyens du NZOD UC. ae de la  nise i jour de la carte scoLaire, La derniree inude iique
l'nformaisaion = r 2res wmoyens logistiques des services rcniques du MhNUC. permcnant la misc
a jour des indi    fandame=rx at l'orienntrion dui Sme ProjeL Dis que le PPF sen disponible. Ie
.MIED UC senpp I lancar las trois imdes converts suivam les proc6dures usueiles de l'IDA.
:5.    LLe 3:me PTojet aum comme objecrifs principawc: (a) I'ainiliorarion des smnres dtacuueil du
systrrne ahicarif zsi que d:s programmes. merz I-acem sur l enseigcent sciencifique. technique
an proressionned cns le sens d-une meilleure adioarion fonnarion emloi cr (b) la revalorisarion du corps
-nseignant Yerminm  m'amlioracion de la forrmrion. des conditions, de =avail et de la r:lanon entre le



34                                 ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
.MIt3N,EDtU'C  t l E:NS. en Vuc d'adapeT leas prograrnz=  de fh;uin d   fornurs      nouvcIcs
sLatgics d'ducwon (i.f.. proftesionalisauion en agriculcure et rechnologie).
6.     Le MInUUsa-_ a rmppef que.I'DA trouve des alternaives aux fonds de cor2zrepame nacionale dzrs
le dornaine social. =mpte te:nu du fait qua leur indisponibilitc constime un obsacle majeur i la bonne
-.xecuron dz proje5,
7.     Dans le comcxte de F&valuarion des systmes de geston des projes BSM. il a ef r no=nd
de oroc.dra i un  IgZ4 = des circuis de trait en des dossiers de projecs en vue noramment dc renar
la Division des- Pojers su~fsan    opEraionndeil.  Ce processus devrait se poursuivre gr  - au
developpement nsUrtiuion.I du  CNEDE.C a l'issue de 'anayse diagnostique des =ovcns er znehodes
de gersdon du NINODUC.
Une mission IDA es envisagee en ocsobre 1994 en vue de lance un travail sectoriel ponc:mel
permecafl la prdpwarion du nouveau projeL
La mission reGertic Son Excellence Ic Mistm Robesr MbeIIa Mbaop  (MNEDUC) ainsi que
les reonsables du sea=r ids  ion pour leur chaleux accucil c pour la disponibilir6 et la
collaboranon ac:ive dour Us om fit preve lors des difYrcns  =nnices.
Fait i Yaound  e 26 juillt 1994
Ic Amsnitr de 1'Edoron Narionale                                Por la Baquc mondiale
SE. Robert Mbda Mb=pe                                           B       Mol-Dru



Appendix A                                                                      35
MISSION B&NOU:E NOYDlALE
PREPARATION DIU PROTET EDUCATION V
RAPPORT D'4CHEVEMT ENT Dli PROJET EDUCATION rv
Yaounde. 1-'O juiller 1994
1.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale sest deroulie du 17 au 20 juilel 1994. Eie a cri
mnenee par Catbrc.ne Laurent. e-onomisre. charg~e de projers a ia division popularion et
ressources hilmes du deparzemenx Afrique occidenrae et cetrale, er Joseph  4Nraxgsi.
6conomiso i la mission residenme au Cameroun.
2.    La mission a pu avoir des enreriens avec monsieur le minisre de -Educaron orionale,
monsieur le chef de la division des projers Educarion BIRD er de la coopcrarion du MINEDUC,
aiasi cue mongir  le chef de la division  des dissemens  a la caisse auronome
d'amorrissemenL El}e a egalement renconr6 monsieur le chef de la mission de coopradon
franeiso.
3.    La mission avair un double objecrif: faire le poins sur I'avance de prYpararion de projes
(Projcr przmon faciLiy, PPF) pour Educarion V or pr6ciser les modalrzs do prnparzdon d
rapporr d'achevee du projer Educarion TV.
I. AVAINCE POUR LA PREPARATrON DU PROJE EDUCATII0  V
1. Avanc:men du dossier au scma du zouyernem=  du Cam
4.    Le mimisne ad l'iducarion naronale a adr=s  dans un premier 1r  le dossier de la
=4=8= an mmwsr: dc l'Economie or des Fnance, pour               dans ses meiUlloz  d6lais
" la Banaue mixfiale.
2. Rmvision du m t de. 'avance
5.    Le mon romal de 1'avance a cm esrimh a 474360.000 FCFA. soir 'lqzialen de
893.500 doll= EU (1 dollar 531 FCFA). Les depenses sox dsormais chis comme su=t
Car6gories                         Cour ?CFA                 Coiu dollars EU
Assisasnce    ue                   70.760.000                    1i3.;00
Fosmarions/Emis locales            170.775.000                   321.600
Equipcmenm                        180.485.000                    340.000
Foncori rnem=                      52.340.000                     98.600
Tocal                             474.360.000          I         893.500



36                               ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
II. PRFEPARTTCO'i DI RAPPORT D.ACHEVEMENT DU PROIET EDLCATTON
6.    La mission a pu prziser. tanr au M,[I.NEDUC qu a la caisse auconome d'amortissernenr.
le calendrier d'claborarion du rapport d'ach&vemenr du projer Education rv. los le 10 jUin
1994. La mission a Egaiement rappele que le Cameroun doir encore verser 108 miilions de
FCFFA au dine des fonds de contrepartie du projer Education TV. T e rapport d'achivemear doir
eur soumis au cornseil d'admnizsrrarion de la Bancue mondiale au plus tard I: 10 dec:nbre 1994.
[1 est -labore en crois lemps:
1. Prvararion du  noort d'6valuadion du oroier 2ar le gouvern  c-ent du Camerun:
7.    Le gouvernement du Cameroun co    cunique a la Banque montldle. dams ses meilleurs
d6lais (la date ideale de wansmission est la mi-aout 1994, compre tenu des calendriers de ce
ranporr er de I'avance d: preparaion sur projer), un projea de rapport d'6valuanon de P'e~ceuion
du projet foumissant les donn6cs et analyses suivans:
- hisorique des comptes du projet, par cargories/composa , en FCFA et en doDlars EU;
- profil des debours menr au tre du orr coe  des fonds de conaepame, diff6rcnc  avec
les previsions inaes. er exicadon de ces diffdrences;
- proc:dures d'acuisition. diff6rences cvenmeIles avec les previsions inirasal e :xvlication de
ces differeces
- r&.lisaron des 6I6mcnm Marfrices par   m         difreres par   port aux pr6visiocs
initaes, ar ex1icaion de ces diffrmces;
Adifficults majeures rncoo:4es dans I'ex&cdon du proje et provosidons pour les 6vier ou
les resoudre lors d'op*rnons ulrtieures;
-=  azmre lcmnem que le gouvernemen= du Cameroum jugec: n=ssaire d'apporrr I cec
6valuaioL
-'   . Mission de la Banace mc e sour I'aboradion du raouo  d'achevemen
8.    Des roq=n du projet de rappor d6cril au paragaphe 7 ci-dessus, 1a Banque mondiale
emblk er  a     m    les te=es de rdf6er e de la mission d'iLaborarion du rpor
d'achvemenm du projet Educadom IV an gouveremn=  du Caerou   Cene mission. a prevoir
fin s,p=9bre 1994, a deux objectifs:
- mbir Is opinion de la Banque mondale sur l'ex&c-inon du projer; clles-ci sonm consign6es
dans l'aide-m6moire de la mission;
a- ider le oouvernemenz du Cameroun a finaliser.sa coanmbution I ce rapport.



AppendixA                                                                         37
3. Fnalisation du raDort d'achevementt oar la Bana,ue mondiale:
9.    A lieSUC de cece mission, la Banque mondiale procede i la finalisallon du
mpport comne s.ur:
- rzide-mmoirt de a mission est confi&Tmi par ecnt au 5ouv enens;
- le projer de rapporr est nansarus au gouvernement pour co=unentaires;
- Ic gouvmement finalise son rapport d'evaluation, avec une synthese de cc texte sil
dTpzsse 10 pagez
- It rAppcrr d'achevemnt ainsi complct:, est soumis au conscil d'admii on d la
Banq, zva  le 10 d&cenbre 1994.
m. RE%NECITS
10.   La mission rcme  monsieur le minisu, de 1'ducmion naxionale insi ue ics
e   de radminis on camerounaise quteLle a pu rencnrer de 'aceil re;% ainsi
que de r'esprr d'aotite co laboradon constamme  mandit   c     au cours de c=re mission.
Yaoind, le 20 juiUet 1994
Catherine LXX=



38                               ICR - CAMEROON: Edcation and Vocational Training Project
REPUBLIQUE DU CAMEROUN
MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE
RPPORT D' ACHEVEMENT
PROJET EDUCATION ET FORMATION
PROFESSIONNELLE
PRET 2683-CM
Yaound6, le
DIVISION DES PROJETS EDUCATION BIRD ET DE LA COOPERATION -
SERVICE ADMINISTRATIF ET FINANCIER -



Appendix 8                                                                  39
REPUBLIQUE DU CAMEROUN
PROJET EDUCATION ET FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
PRET 2683-CM
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
TABLE DES MATIERES
PRESENTATION ..............................  1
LISTE DES ABREVIATIONS ....         ................  2
DONNEES DE BASE ...........................  3
I. HISTORIQUE DU PROJET ....         ................ 4
II. POINTS PRINCIPAUX ....................... 4
III. LE PROJET, L'ACCORD DE PRET ET SON
REDIMENSIONNEMENT ........................ 5
IV. ADMINISTRATION ET EXECUTION DU PROJET ... 9
V. REALISATIONS PHYSIQUES ET RESULTATS DU
PROJET   ..................................  9
VI. COUT ET FINANCEMENT DU PROJET .... ......  9
VII. DIFFICULTES RENCONTREES  ....        ............ 11
VIII. CONCLUSIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS ... .....  12
IX. LECONS A TIRER ......................... 12
DOCUMENTS DE REFERENCE
1) Accord de Pret
2) Accord de Pret redimensionne en 1990
3) Rapports d.:Audits
4) Aide-menmoire Mission BM de Mars 1993 et Mars 1994
5) Arrdtts de creation et de dissolution du Groupe de
Pilotage
6) Rapport Assistance technique



40                           ICR - C4AdEROON: Education and vocational Training Project
PRESENTATION
Le present document est un Rapport d'Achevement du
Projet Education et Formation Professionnelle pour lequel la Banque
Mondiale et la Republique du Cameroun ont conclu un accord de pret
en date du 10 Juillet 1986. Le colat total estime du Projet etait de
61 200 000 SEU, dont 30 100 000 devaient etre couverts par le pret.
La clOture du pret est intervenue au mois d'Avril 1994 et un reliquat
de 21 156 451,25 SEU non debourse a ete annule le 10 Juin.
Les informations- contenues dans ce rapport seront
completees par le rapport de l'audit de cloture des comptes au
30.06.94.



Appendix B
SIGLES ET ABREVIATIONS
Sigles                     Denomination de l'Institution
MINEDUC   Ministere de l'Education Nationale
MTPS      Ministere du Travail et de la Prevoyance Sociale
MINASCOF  Ministere des Affaires Sociales et de la Condition
Femininie
MESIRES   Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur, de l'Infor-
matique et de la Recherche Scientifique
MINEFI    Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
B M       Banque Mondiale
O I T     Organisation Internationale du Travail
O R T     Union Mondiale ORT
I D A     Association Internationale de Developpement
CENAFOP   Centre National de Formation Professionnelle
B E P     Bureau d'Ex4cution du Projet
DETP      Direction de l'Enseignement Technique et Professionnel
DPCES     Direction des Projets, des Constructions et des
Equipements Scolaires
DPEBC     Division des Projets Education BIRD et de la Coop6ration
DEPM      Direction de l'Enseignement Primaire et Maternel
DPOS      Division de la Planification et de l'Orientation
Scolaires
P A S     Programme d'Ajustement Structurel
D S A     Dimension Sociale de l'Ajustement
SAR/SM    Section Artisanale Rurale/Section Menagere
E P       Ecole Primaire
CETIC     College d'Enseignement Technique et Commercial
A P E     Association des Parents d'Eleves
G P       Groupe de Pilotage
SEU       Dollar Etats-Unis



42                          ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
DONNEES DE BASE
DONNEES ESSENTIELLES DU PROJET
PREVI-  PREVI-   PREVI-   PREVI-
SIONS  SIONS    SIONS    SIONS        RESUL- I RESUL-
EVALUA  EVALUA   EVALUA-  EVALUA-    TATS   I TATS
TION    TION     TION EN  TION EN    EFFEC- I EFFEC-
LIBELLES        EN      EN      1 1990     1990        TIFS      TIFS
1986   1 1986    J (en    I(en         (en       (en
(en     (en      SEU)      F/CFA)      SEU)      F/CFA)
r                    SEU)    F/CFA)   _                             I
.COUT TOTAL DU       61 200  16 524    37 600  10 152                  10 152
PROJET                              I _  _
1        i
MONTANT DU PRET    31 100   8 397 I    -           - _        _
MONTANT DECAISSE       -        -    I      _              8 944       2 415
AU 30 AVRIL 1994             
MONTANT ANNULE         -        -   I          i         121 156       5 712
AU 30 AVRIL 1994  _        I             I _    _         _
NOMBRE DE MOIS   i
DEPUIS LA SIGNA-       -        _     96 mois |   -      I 92 mois
TURE DU PRET      !         _         _         _                            t
ELEMENTS REA-
LISES (en %) A
LA DATE D'ACHE-        - _      _                  -      29,71%        -;
;VEMENT            !          _        I                  I _
fRETARD (en S)     t   _   I   _   j    _   .   _          24moisj   -
PAR RAPPORT                I        1
LD LAIS S__   __=_                                 -  =_-.__
Legende:
1 SEU - 270 F/CFA
Les montants- en SEU sont exprim4& en milliers
Les montants en F/CFA sont exprim6s en millions



Appendix B                                                              43
I - HISTORIQUE DU PROJET
Le Projet Education et Formation Professionnelile, objet du
Pret 2683-CM approuve le 29 Avril 1986 par le Directeur Ex6cutif de
la Banque Mondiale, est une reponse directe aux objectifs de la
Politique de Developpement de l1enseignement exprimee par le Gouver-
nement camerounais, qui consiste A rendre l'enseignement primaire
accessible A tous les enfants, et parallelement, A ameliorer sa
qualite ; enfin a developper 1'enseignement secondaire technique et
la formation professionnelle afin de resoudre le probleme de l'in-
suffisance d'une main d'oeuvre qualifiee.
Pour ameliorer la qualite de l1enseignement primaire, le Gou-
vernement avait envisage la roalisation d'un programme de formation
des formateurs ainsi que la construction de 3 ENI-ENIA.
Le projet devait en outre permettre l'expansion   de l'ensei-
gnement technique par la construction de 6 (six) CET.
Les insuffisances de la main d'oeuvre qualifiee devaient princi-
palement etre resolues par l'elaboration des programmes de formation
A court terme organises par le CENAFOP. Cette institution a ete cr6e
en 1981 sous le precedent projet finance par la Banque Mondiale.
L'objectif majeur du renforcement du CENAFOP etait d'assurer son
autofinancement A travers la reduction progressive des subventions de
l'Etat et le developpement du partenariat avec les secteurs prives et
parapublics.
II - POINTS PRINCIPAUX
Le Projet Education et Formation Professionnelle est base sur
des etudes financees dans le cadre du IIIe Projet Education.
Ce pret de 30 100 000 S EU etait destine A apporter un appui A
l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire technique A travers l'augmen-
tation du nombre de maitres qualifies ; l'amelioration des compe-
tences pratiques des eleves de l'Enseignement technique ; l'amelio-
ration de la gestion administrative des ecoles ; l'augmentation
de 1'efficacit6 du systeme de formation professionnelle de la main
d'oeuvre A travers un soutien au developpement du CENAFOP ;
l'amelioration de la planification des ressources humaines et la
planitication et la gestigw de la formation professionnelle.
En 1986, date de signature du pret, le coOt total du projet
avait ete estime A 61 200 000 SEU et finance A 30 100 000 SEU par le
Pr6t (49 %) et A 31 100 000 SEU par l'USAID et le Gouvernement
camerounais (51 S).
En 1990, le coOt du Projet revu est pass6 A 37 600 000 SEU,
finance A 30 100 000 SEU par le Pret et 7 500 000 SEU par le
Gouvernement, l'USAID ayant retire sa participation.
En 1993, une deuxieme restructuration du projet est intervenue.



44                           ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
Le coOt reel du projet a la date d'achevement est de
10 227 571,98 SEU soit l'quivalent de 2 761 444 435 F/CFA, soit un
taux de realisation de 27,20 t par rapport aux previsions de
l'evaluation de 1990.
La plupart des e1lments du projet n'ont pas atteint les
objectifs vises malgre les restructurations intervenues en 1990 et en
1993. Seule la composante "Gestion de 1'Education' a enregistre une
evolution positive avec, d'une part, l'envoi de plusieurs cadres en
formation A l'Etranger pour le renforcement de la DPEBC, DPOS, DETP
et d'autre part. le recrutement de l'Assistance Technique.
L'execution du projet a accuse un retard de 24 mois. Cette
situation resulte en grande partie du contexte socio-economique
morose du fait de la crise economique d'une part, et de la
devaluation du Franc CFA, d'autre part.
Dans ce contexte, la contribution des Experts aura ete beaucoup
plus bureaucratique que technique et concrete.
Parmi les le$ons A tirer, il faut citer les lacunes dans la
conception du projet dont 1'ex6cution s'est averee lourde car il
interessait A la fois trois Departements ministeriels entraInant
ainsi des retards significatifs dans la prise des decisions. On peut
aussi souligner les diverses restructurations, la creation du Groupe
de Pilotage et la confusion au niveau du pouvoir de decision dans
1'execution du projet.
III - LE PROJET, L'ACCORD DE PRET ET SON REDIMENSIONNEMENT
A - ELEMENTS INITIAUX DU PROJET
A l'evaluation le projet visait les objectifs suivants
1. Enseignement Primaire et Enseignement Secondaire Technique
1.1 Enseignement Primaire
a) Construction et equipement de nouvelles installations
pour 3 ENI-ENIA (ENIA de Bafia, d'Ebolowa et d'Edea) ;
-.-b) Realisation d'une_.tude en vue d'ameliorer l'efficacite de la
formation des instituteurs et d'en reduire le coQt.
1.2 Enseignement Secondaire Technique
Renovation et reequipement des installations de formation de
deux lycees techniques (Douala et Bonaberi), de deux lycees-colleges
techniques (Kumba et Bafoussam) et de six colleges d'enseignement
technique (CETIC de Yaounde, Ebolowa et Ombe, CETI de Yaounde,
CETIF de Yaound6 et CETIF d'Akwa-Douala).



Appendix B                                                              45
1.3 Gestion de l'Education
a)  Renforcement  de  la  Division  de la  Planification  et  de
l'Orientation Scolaires (DPOS) en vue d'am iiorer l.a planification et
la gestion des ressources 4ducatives, notamment par  la prestation de
services  de  sp6cialistes et  de  consultants,   l'octroi de  bourses
d'etudes,  l'organisation de  s4minaires locaux  et la  fourniture de
mobilier et de mat4riel ;
b) Renforcement  de la Direction de  l'Enseignement Technique et
Professionnel (DETP) pour lui permettre d'ameliorer la  planification
et l'administration des etablissements d'enseignement technique, de
r6aliser une etude  de preinvestissement en vue de la  renovation des
installations de formation de trois colleges d'enseignement technique
(Edea, Bonadoumbe et Nkongsamba) et de mettre au point un systeme
d'achat et  d'entretien pour le materiel du fonctionnernent du service
d'entretien  et   de  maintenance,   la  prestation   de  services  de
sp4cialistes et de consultants et l'octroi de bourses.
c) Renforcement de la Direction des Projets Education (DPE) pour
lui permettre de mieux preparer et executer les projets, notamment
par la prestation de services de specialistes et de consultants,
l'octroi de bourses et la fourniture de mobilier et de materiel.
2. Systeme de Formation Professionnelle
2.1 Developpement de la Formation Professionnelle
Appui au  Centre National de  Formation Professionnelle Continue
(CENAFOP)  pour lui  permettre  de mieux  adapter  ses  programmes de
formation  aux  besoins  du  marche  du  travail  en  ameliorant  les
programmes de stages, en introduisant de nouveaux programmes de
stages et en realisant un programme de perfectionnement du  personnel
du CENAFOP, notamment par la prestation de services de specialistes
et de consultants et la fourniture de materiel A ses ateliers.
2.2 Gestion de la Formation Professionnelle
Renforcement  de  la  Direction   de  la  Main-d'Oeuvre,  de  la
Formation Professionnelle et des Projets (DMOFP) :
a) pour ameliorer ses capacites en matiere de planification de
la mai-n-d'oeuvre et de gesSc.ion des ressources de formation ;
b) pour ameliorer ses capacites en matiere de preparation et
d'execution de projets et
c) pour la  realisation d'etudes de preinvestissement  en vue de
la renovation des Centres de Formation Professionnelle Rapide (CFPR)
existants  et la creation de huit centres supplementaires, la mise au
point d'un systeme d'apprentissage et la creation d'un office de
1'emploi  et de la formation  permanente, notamment par la prestation
de services de specialistes et de consultants, l'octroi de bourses,
et la fourniture de mobilier et de materiel.
3. L'ach6vement du Projet etait alors prevu pour le 31 decembre 1992.



46                           ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
B -  ELEMENTS DU PROJET REDIMENSIONNE EN 1990
Restructuration de l'Accord de Pr.Et de 1990
Processus
En raison des nouveaux objectifs globaux du PAS, le Gouvernement
camerounais a 4t6 amene A restructurer le IVe Projet.
Par ailleurs, le Gouvernement a ressenti la necessite d'une
reforme sectorielle developpee A travers le prolet DSA.
A cet effet,  deux missions de la Banque respectivement  en Juin
et D6cembre 1989 avaient approuve tous les e1Aments du projet
restructure  et leurs  coQts. Ainsi,  les nouvelles  orientations ci-
apres avaient ete retenues :
a) maintien des resultats quantitatifs dans l'enseignement
primaire ;
b) amelioration de la qualite de l'enseignement A tous les
niveaux ;
c) am4lioration de l'adequation de l'enseignement et des
systemes  de formation  aux  besoins du  developpement  economique et
social du pays.  A cet effet, le Gouvernement  s'est engage A reviser
les politiques et les strategies du systeme educatif actuel ; de
preparer  une  declaration  de  politique  du secteur ~ducatif  dans
laquelle seront indiquees les nouvelles politiques et les priorit6s ;
de preparer une strategie de realisation et un plan d'action A moyen
terme pour la reforme sectorielle.
L'Accord  amende  a par  consequent  enregistre  les changements
suivants
Montant affecte      t de Depenses
Cat6gorie                  (exprime en SEU)       financees
I. Depenses relatives A la Poli-
tique sectorielle
(Partie A du Projet)
1) Service de Consultants et
de Specialistes .... ...            780 000               100
2) Equipement, mat4riel, mobi-
lier et vehicules .... ......       120 000                80
3) Depenses d'exploitation ... .        300 000              100
II. Depenses du MINEDUC (Partie B
A E du Projet)
4) Travaux de remise en etat et
d'entretien .....    ...........    4 500 000              80
5) Equipement, materiel, mobi-
lier et vehicules .... ......    5 230 000                 80
6) Service de Consultants et
de Specialistes .... ........    4 430 000                100
7) Formation .....     .............    2 060 000            100
8) Depenses d'exploitation ... .    2 000 000



Appendix B                                                             47
dont        90 % jusqu'au 31 D4c. 1991
70 % jusqu'au 31 Dec. 1992
50 % jusqu'au 31 D4c. 1993
25 t par la suite.
III. D4oenses du CENAFOP (Partie
F du Projet)
9) Travaux de remise en etat . .        200 000               100
10) Equipement, materiel, mobi-
lier et v4hicules .... .......   2 400 000                 100
11) Service de Consultants et
de Specialistes ....    .........   5 200 000              100
12) Formation .....     ..............   500 000               100
IV. Autres
Non affect6 .....     ............   2 380 000
TOTAL   ......  .................    30   100  00
Restructuration du Projet en 1993
En Fevrier 1993, une mission de la Banque Mondiale propose la
restructuration du Projet, A la suite d'un constat d'echec du GP dans
sa mission. Ainsi, les actions prioritaires ci-apres ont 6t4
retenues
Montant affect6          v D4penses
financees
Composante/Categorie          ------------    ------------    -------------
(en SEU)        (en F/CFA)       BIRD  / GOUV.
POLITIQUE SECTORIELLE
Depenses d'exploitation          126 500,00        34 155 000    100        0
DEPM
Travaux de remise en etat    1 522 222,22         411 000 000      80      20
Maintenance EP/APE               370 370,37       100 000 000      80       20
Equipt, Mat., Mob., Veh.         662 962,96       179 000 000      80      20
Service Spec. exterieurs         645 000,00       174 150 000    100        0
Formation                        878 553,70       237 209 500    100        0
Depenses d'exploitation           44 444,44        12 000 000      50      50
POST PRIMAIRE
Travaux d.e--remise en etat     _296 296,30        80 000 000      80      20
Equipt, Mat., Mob., Veh.         429 629,63       116 000 000      80      20
Formation                         66 666,67        18 000 000    100        0
DPOS
Equip, Mat., Mob., Veh.          174 074,07        47 000 000      80      20
Service Spec. et Consult.        135 000,00        36 450 000    100        0
Formation                        142 500,00        38 475 000    100        0
Depenses d'exploitation           33 333,33         9 000 000      50      50
OPE
Travaux de remise en etat         55 555,56        15 000 000      80       20
Equipt, Mat., Mob., Veh.          66 666,67        18 000 000      80       20
Serv. Spec. et Consults          469 074,07       126 650 000    100         0
Formation                        132 592,59        35 800 000    100         0
Depenses d'exploitation          125 925,93        34 000 000      50       50



48                          ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
IV - ADMINISTRATION - EXECUTION DU PROJET
Le  Bureau  d'Execution  du  Projet  avait beneficie,  pour  son
lancement, de l'Assistance Technique de 7 specialistes pour renforcer
ses strutures au MINEDUC (DPEBC, DPOS.DETP) et au CENAFOP.
En marge de cette Assistance Technique des missions de suivi
et de supervision de la BM sont regulierement venues au Cameroun.
Malgre ces deux  atouts d'encadrement, la qestion  du projet n'a
pas ete satisfaisante. La creation d'une structure independante
suggeree par la BM et mise en place par le Gouvernement pour la
definition d'une politique sectorielle de l'Education n'a pas non
plus convaincu. Le Groupe de Pilotage integrait six groupes d'etudes
qui n'ont jamais pu si6ger.
Globalement, il se degage que 1'execution du IVe Projet n'a pas
ete satisfaisante, le projet ayant ete realise a 26,87 %.
V - REALISATIONS PHYSIQUES ET RESULTATS DU PROJET
Par rapport aux actions a mener, on peut noter les realisations
suivantes :
a) Assistance technique
- Politique sectorielle ..........   57 674 915 F/CFA
- MINEDUC ......    ..................   724 051 870 F/CFA
- CENAFOP ......    .................. 1 186 600 680 F/CFA
TOTAL ... ...... 1 968 227 465 F/CFA
b) Formation :
- Politique sectorielle ..........               0 F/CFA
- MINEDUC .....     ...................  293 828 265 F/CFA
-  CENAFOP   ........................            0  F/CFA
TOTAL ... ......  293 828 265
Les changements d'orientation et difficult6s evoques au chapitre
VIII.(2) ci-dessous n'ont_pas permis d'atteindre les objectifs
attendus du projet.
VI - COUTS ET FINANCEMENT DU PROJET
Le tableau comparatif  des coOts estim6s  A l'valuation et  des
coQts  effectifs  par  categorie  par  rapport  a  l'Accord  de  Pret
restructur4 en monnaie locale et en Dollars Etats-Unis se presente
ainsi qu'il suit



Appendix 8                                                                          49
COUTS ET FINANCEMENT DU PROJET
(en millions)
---------------------------------------------------------------__--------
Colits estim6s            CoCts effecti's             Diff4rence
A !'^valuation
Composante        ------------------         -------------------    ---------------
F/CFA      SEU       2     F/CFA       $EU        i       F/CFA       SEU
I. POLITIQUE
SECTORIELLE
Cat. 1              211    0.780    1.61         79    0.293       6.83   -    132   -0.487
Cat. 2               32    0.120    0.24         28    0.102       2.42   -       4  -0.505
Cat. 3               81    0.300    0.62         97    0.359       8.39  +       16  +0 . 059
II. MINEDUC
Cat. 4            1 215    4.500    9.25           0         0         0   - 1 215  - 4.500
Cat. 5            1 412    5.230   10.75         13    0.050       1.12   - 1 399  - 5.18
Cat. 6            1 196    4.430    9.11        682    2.527    59.00   -   514  - 1.903
Cat. 7            5 562    2. 060   42.35       203    0.754    17.56   - 5 359  - 1.306
Cat. 8              540    2.000    4.11         20    0.074       1.73   -   520  - 1.926
III.  CENAFOP
Cat. 9               54    0.200    0.41           0         0         0   -    54  - 0.200
Cat.  10            648    2.400    4.93           0         0         0   -   648  - 2.400
Cat. 11           1 404    5.200   10. 69          0         0         0   - 1 404  - 5.200
Cat.  12            135    0.500    1.03         34    0.127       2.94   -   101  - 0.373
IV. AUTRES
Cat. 13             643    2. 380    4.90          0         0         0   -   643  - 2.380
TOTAUX  .... .  13 133  30.100 100.00   1 156    3.910   100.00
TABLEAU DES DEBOURSEMENTS PREVUS DU PRET APRES RESTRUCTURATION
(en Millions de Dollars EU)
--------------------------------------------------------------
Annee fiscale                          Annuel                      Cumulatif
- - - - - - - - - - -              - - - -                   - - - - - - -
Jusqu'en 1989  ........                   5,3                           5,3
1990 (2e semestre)  ...                  1,2                            6,5
1993  .................                  7,5                          14,0
1994  .................                  5,0                          27,8
1995  .................                  2,3                          30,1
Il apparalt, au vu du tableau ci-dessus, que l'annulation du
Pr4t est intervenue avant 1995, annee de fin de projet.



50                           ICR - CAMEROON: Educatfion and Vocational Training Project
La Banque a firnanc6 29,31 t des coots ef'ectifs et .a partici-
pation du Gouvernement est de 17,12 :.
VII. DIFFICULTES RENCONTREES
1. Causes internes : Elles sont essentiellement Financi4res et
institutionnelles :
- En raison de la situation economique difficile, le
Cameroun n'a pas pu d6gager sa contrepartie ;
- Conception complexe du projet et lourdeur dans son
execution sans tenir entierement compte des conditions et des
paramttres locaux ; des obligations en  matiere   financiere,  compte
insuffisamment tenu des ressources reelles du pays ;
- On peut aussi relever une absence de planification con-
ditionnelle pour faire face A des situations exceptionnelles de blo-
cage telle l'indisponibilit4 des fonds de contrepartie ;
- Le climat economique defavorable ayant empech4 le
Cameroun de respecter ses engagements vis-A-vis de la BM a entraine
la suspension des decaissements ;
- Manque d'interaction entre le Groupe de Pilotage et les
Minist6res techniques b6n6ficiaires finaux du projet.
- Longueur des procedures et exces d'intervenants dans les
dacisions.
2. Causes externes
- Les missions de supervision et de suivi de la BM n'ont
pias pleinement joue leur role ; les nombreuses modifications des
composantes du projet par ces missions ont retarde d'une fagon
significative son execution ;
- Le processus d'obtention des non-objections de la Banque
est long. En outre, on a souvent note des contradictions dans le
choi_x_des orientations de_la Banque.



Appendix 8                                                              51
VIII - CONCLUSIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS
La  plupart  des  e1lments  du  projet  n'ont  pas  atteint  les
objectifs vises ma lgr6 les restructurations intervenues en 1990 et en
1993.  Seule la composante "Gestion  de l'Education  a enregistr4 une
execution positive avec, d'une part, la formation des cadres du
MINEDUC et d'autre part, le recrutement de l'Assistance Technique.
Le projet a connu une cloture anticip6e.
L'Assistance  Technique prevue  pour  le renforcement  du Bureau
d'Execution du Projet a ete insuffisante. La contribution des
Experts ayant ete beaucoup plus bureaucratique que technique et
concrete.
Malgre les deux atouts d'encadrement, la realisation du projet
n'a  pas  ete  satisfaisante.  Le Groupe  de  Pilotage  aura 6t6  une
structure de trop sans resultats effectifs.
Pour ameliorer la gestion des futurs projets, il serait
souhaitable d'all6ger les procedures administratives. A cet effet, on
devrait eliminer les multiples intervenants d4cri6s.
IX. LECONS A TIRER
G6en6ralit6s :
L'execution du projet a dure environ huit ans dont deux pour les
op6rations de restructuration de l'Accord de Pret qui ont abouti A un
resultat approximatif, toutes tentatives de restructuration ayant
echoue.
L'un des facteurs majeurs qui a contribue A l'chec a 4t6 la
complexite de ce projet qui associait trois departements minis-
t6riels, A savoir : le MINEDUC, le MESIRES et le MTPS. En outre, eu
6gard A toutes les difficultes rencontrees, il etait pratiquement
impossible de  pouvoir assurer une coordination  efficiente de toutes
les composantes du projet.
Le  probleme  s'est  particuliorement  fait  sentir lors  de  la
decis-i-on de restructuratizz du CENAFOP en vue de la mise en oeuvre du
financement de  ses activites. Le  MINEDUC ne pouvant  pas interf&er
dans les questions institutionnelles du MTPS a impuissamment vu la
Banque Mondiale suspendre le financement de ce volet du projet.
Il serait souhaitable de proceder a l'avenir A 1'ex4cution des
projets specifiques par d4partement ministeriel.
La creation du Groupe de Pilotage de la Politique Sectorielle de
l'Education aura constitui! tout simplement une multiplication
d'intervenants  sans une  capacite  reelle de  g4rer  efficacement le
projet. Et l'echec de cette  institution consacr4 par sa  dissolutior.
le confirme.



52                           ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
S'agissant de l'indisponibilite de la contrepartie financiere,
la Banque Mondia,e aurait dO considerer les arrieres de l'Etat
comme  etant  une  question  interieure,  sans toutefois  la  poser  comme
condition de dRblocage des fonds.
Execution du Projet :
Parmi les  legons A  tirer, il  faut citer  les lacunes  dans la
conception du projet dont l'ex4cution s'est averee trop lourde.
A deux reprises lors de 1'execution du projet, la gestion  a 6t6
transferee  d'un  BEP  A  un  autre  sur  initiative  de  la  Banque,
L'origine du probleme aurait ete l'apprehension de la Banque A savoir
le MINEDUC assurer une maltrise de la gestion du projet d'une part,
et avoir un organe central autonome de coordination des differentes
activites du projet, d'autre part.
II est essentiel donc, que le Gouvernement et la Banque
Mondiale, avant d'entreprendre l'execution d'un projet, parviennent a
un accord sans 6quivoque. En particulier, que la Banque accepte les
organes institutionnels existants, quitte a les renforcer par
l'assistance technique.
Les multiples missions d'evaluation iteratives de la Banque
Mondiale n'ont pas su apporter une contribution effective a la
realisation heureuse du projet. Elles se sont averees etre de simples
missions de routine sans influence notable sur le deroulement des
activites. Car tous ces specialistes apparemment bien outilles dans
leur domaine d'expertise n'ont pas pu, par anticipation A travers les
m6thodes critiques formelles, modifier positivement le cours du
projet.
En outre. si la restructuration de 1990 avait tenu compte du
contexte socio-economique et financier du pays, elle aurait favorise
le financement  a 100  t par  la Banque  Mondiale des composantes  en
dupprimant de ce fait les conditionalites, source de blocage r4el de
ce projet relevant du secteur social.
Gouvernement
Le Gouvernement devrait 4tre pousse A trouver de nouveaux
6l1mernts  de  n6gociation- des  projets 4ducatifs  qui  correspondent
effectivement A ses moyens reels de contribution. Par ailleurs, le
faible   taux  de  consommation  des  credits  du  Pret  a  amene  le
Gouvernement A supporter des commissions d'engagement inutiles.



Appendix B                                                                    53
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN 2683-CM
Project Review From Borrower's Perspective
1.    This document is the Implementation Completion Report of the Education and
Vocational Training Project regarding which the World Bank and the Government of
Cameroon entered into a Loan Agreement dated July 10, 1986. The total estimated cost of
the Project was US$61,200,000, of which US$30,100,000 was to be covered by the Loan.
Closure of the Loan took place in April 1994, leaving an undisbursed amount of
US$21,156,451.25, which was canceled on June 10, 1994. The information contained in this
Report is supplemented by the June 30, 1994 Closure Audit.
I. BACKGROUND TO THE PROJECT
2.    The Education and Vocational Training Project, the subject of Loan 2683-CM
approved by the World Bank Executive Directors on April 29, 1986, was a direct response to
the objectives of the Cameroon Government, set out in its Education Development Policy
Statement, namely these objectives were the following: to make primary education accessible
to all children, to improve the quality of that education, and to develop secondary technical
education and vocational training and thereby solve the problem created by the scarcity of
skilled manpower.
3.    As a way to upgrade the quality of primary education, the Government wished the
project to include arrangements for design of a teacher training program and construction of
three primary teacher training colleges (Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs Adjoints, ENLs). A
further component, which would allow technical education to be expanded, was to be the
construction of six lower secondary technical schools (CETs).
4.    The main step toward a resolution of the country's skilled manpower shortage was to
be the preparation of short-term training programs that would be organized by the National
Center for Adult Vocational Training (Centre National de Formation Professionnelle,
CENAFOP), an entity set up in 1981 as part of the previous project financed by the World
Bank. The key objective here was to strengthen the institution so that it would become
financially self-sustaining enough to withstand progressive cutbacks in government subsidies,
and be able to develop a partnership relationship with the private and parastatal sectors.



54                              ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
II. MAJOR POINTS
5.    The design of this Education and Vocational Training Project was based on studies
funded through the Third Education Project. In 1986, when Loan Agreement 2683-CM was
signed, total project cost was estimated at US$61.2 million. Of that amount, 49% (US$30.1
million) was to be provided under the Loan and 51% (US$3 1.1 million) by USAID and the
Cameroon Government.
6.    In 1990, the total cost of the project, after it had been restructured, dropped to
US$37.6 million, with US$30.1 million to be provided under the Loan and US$7.5 million by
the Government alone, as USAID had withdrawn its participation. In 1993, the project was
restructured for the second time.
7.    Actual project cost on the date of closure was US$10,227,571, or the equivalent of
CFAF 2,761,444,435. This represented a 27.20% implementation rate in terms of the 1990
appraisal projections. The original objectives of the majority of project components were not
achieved, despite the restructuring of 1990 and 1993. Only the education management
component was successful, in the sense that (i) several Cameroonian training specialists (from
DPEBC, DPOS and DETP) were sent abroad for further study, and (ii) technical assistance
personnel were recruited. Completion of project implementation was 24 months behind
schedule, mainly because of the adverse impact of the economic crisis and devaluation of the
CFA franc on the country's general socioeconomic situation.
8.    In the circumstances, the contribution by project experts was inevitably more
theoretical than technical and specific. Two lessons in particular are to be drawn from this
operation: (i) shortcomings in project design led to implementation complications because of
the involvement of three ministries, and the resulting lengthy delays in the decision-maldng
process; and (ii) the combined effect of project restructuring, creation of the Groupes de
Pilotage and confiusion at the level responsible for decisions affecting project execution.
m. PROJECT RESTRUCTURING AND LOAN
AGREEMENT AMENDMENTS
--       ~~A. Oiiginal Project Components
9.    At initial appraisal, the objectives of the project were:
Primary Education and Secondary Technical Education
Primary Education
(a)   Construction and equipping of new facilities at three primary
ENIAs-in Bafia, Ebolowa and Edea.



Appendix B                                                                    55
(b)   Preparation of proposals for improving the efficiency and reducing
the costs of primary teacher training.
Secondary Technical Educafion
10.   Rehabilitation and re-equipping of training facilities at two upper secondary technical
schools (Douala and Bonaberi), two upper and lower secondary technical schools (Kumba and
Bafoussamn), and six lower secondary technical schools (CETICs in Yaounde, Ebolowa and
Ombe; a CETI in Yaounde, a CETIF in Yaounde, and a CETIF in Akwa-Douala).
Education Management
(a)   Strengthening of the Educational Planning Division (DPOS), to
enable it to upgrade education planning and resource management.
This was to be achieved through specialist and consultant services,
study fellowships, local seminars and provision of firniture and
equipment.
(b)   Strengthening of the Directorate of Technical and Vocational
Education (Direction de l'Enseignement Technique et Professionnel,
DETP), to enable it to upgrade technical school planning and
administration, carry out a preinvestment study for rehabilitating
training facilities at three lower secondary technical schools (Edda,
Bonadoumbe and Nkongsamba), and develop a system for the
purchase of repair and maintenance materials - to be achieved
through specialist and consultant services and fellowships.
(c)   Strengthening of the Education Projects Directorate (Direction des
Projets Education, DPE), to enable it to better prepare and execute
projects-to be achieved through specialist and consultant services,
fellowships and provision of furniture and equipment.
Vocational Training System
Development of Vocational e paining
11.   Support for the National Center for CENAFOP, to enable it to increase the relevance
of its training programs to labor market needs by improving existing courses, introducing new
courses, implementing a staff development program - to be achieved through specialist and
consultant services and provision of workshop equipment.
Management of Vocational Training
12.   Support for the Directorate of Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects
(DMOFP), in the form of specialist and consultant services, fellowships, and provision of
furniture and equipment, to enable it to:



56                              ICR - CAMEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
(a)   strengthen its manpower planning capacity and management of
training resources;
(b)   strengthen its project preparation and execution capacity;
(c)   carry out preinvestment studies for the rehabilitation of existing
Accelerated Vocational Training Centers (CFPRs) and opening of
eight additional Centers, development of an apprenticeship system,
and establishment of a permanent Bureau of Employment and
Training.
As a result, the anticipated new project completion date was December 31, 1992.
B. Components of the Project as Restructured in 1990
1990 Amendment of the Loan Agreement
13.   Because new overall objectives were associated with the structural adjustment
process, the Government of Cameroon took the decision to redesign Education Project IV. It
had also concluded that the sector needed reforming, and that the process should be
developed through the Social Dimensions of Adjustment Project.
14.   To these ends, two Bank missions (in June and December 1989) approved all aspects
of the restructured project and associated costs. The objectives selected were:
(a)   Maintenance of the primary education system's existing enrollment
capacity.
(b)   Upgrading of the quality of education at all levels.
(c)   Achievement of a better match between the country's education and
training systems and its economic and social development needs.
The Government was committed to revising the policies and
strategies of the existing education system, to formulating an
education sector policy statement outlining its new policies and
priorities for the sector and to drawing up an implementation
strategy and action plan for reform of the sector over the medium
term.
Project Restructuring in 1993
15.   In February 1993, a World Bank mission recommended another restructuring of the
project, following the failure of the Groupe de Pilotage to carry out its mandate.



Appendix B                                                                       57
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTION
16.   The Project Unit had the benefit of technical assistance from seven specialists in
getting the project under way and in reinforcing not only various departments of the Ministry
of Education (DPEBC, DPOS, DETP) but also CENAFOP. In addition, World Bank
supervision rnissions visited Cameroon regularly.
17.   Despite the availability of these two sources of advice, management of the project was
not satisfactory. Creation of a separate entity, the so-called Groupe de Pilotage, to formulate
an education sector policy - a suggestion put forward by the World Bank and acted on by the
Government - did not produce the expected results either; although it nominated six study
groups, they never succeeded in meeting. In general terms, execution of Education Project IV
was not satisfactory, as indicated by its final disbursement rate of only 26.87%.
V. PROJECT RESULTS
18.   Project achievement results can be measured through the following figures:
(a)   Technical assistance                             CFAF
Sector policy .............                 57,674,915
Ministry of Education .............        724,051,870
CENAFOP                           ............. 1,186,600,680
TOTAL .............                       1,968,227,680
(b)   Training                                         CFAF
Sector policy .............                          0
Ministry of Education .............        293,828,265
CENAFOP .............                                0
TOTAL .............                        293,828,265
VI. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
19.   The accompanying table com4res costs (in local currency and in US$) as estimated at
appraisal with actual costs, according to the expenditure categories specified in the amended
Loan Agreement. The World Bank financed 29.31% of actual costs, and the Government
participation was 17.12%.
VII. DIFFICULTIES
Internal Difficulties
20.   These were mainly financial and institutional:



58                              ICR - C4MEROON. Education and Vocational Training Project
*     Because of the difficult economic situation, Cameroon was unable
to put up its counterpart contribution.
*     Project design was complicated  and  therefore unwieldy to
implement;' full account was not taken of local conditions and
constraints; Cameroon's financial obligations were beyond its real
payment capacity.
*     Lack of contingency planning made it impossible to deal with an
unforeseen situation such as the non-availability of counterpart
funds.
*     An unfavorable economic climate, which prevented Caneroon from
fulfilling its obligations vis-a-vis the World Bank and also resulted
in suspension of Bank disbursements to the country.
*     Lack of interaction between the Groupe de Pilotage and the
technical ministries that were the final beneficiaries of the project.
d     Time-consuming nature of project procedures and a decision-
making process in which there were too many participants.
External Dif{iculties
e     World Bank supervision missions did not play their full part; their
numerous modifications of project components delayed project
execution significantly.
*     The process for obtaining Bank non-objections is long, and
contradictions in the Bank's choice of approaches were often
apparent.



Appendix B                                                                                59
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(in Million)
Cost Estimated at           Actual Costs
Appraisal
Component        CFAF    USs       %   CFAF         USS       %      CFAF      USS
L SECTOR
POLICY
Cat. 1               211.000   0.780   1.61              0.293    6.83    - 132    -0.487
Cat. 2                32.000   0.120   0.24              0.102    2.42      - 4    -0.505
Cat. 3                81.000   0.300   0.62              0.359    8.39     + 16    +0.509
IL MIN. OF EDUC.
Cat. 4                 1.215   4.500   9.25        0     0.000    0.00   - 1,215    -4.500
Cat. 5                 1.412   5.230  10.75       13     0.050     1.12   - 1,399    -5.18
Cat. 6                 1.196   4.430   9.11     632      2.527   59.00    - 514    -1.903
Cat. 7                 5.562   2.060  42.35      203     0.754    17.56   - 5,359    -1.306
Cat. 8               540.000   2.000   4.11       20     0.074     1.73    - 520    -1.926
[CL CENAFOP
Cat. 9                54.000   0.200   0.41        0     0.000    0.00      - 54    -0.200
Cat. 10              648.000   2.400   4.93        0     0.000    0.00    -648    -2.400
Cat. 11                1.404   5.200  10.69        0     0.000    0.00   -1,404    -5.200
Cat. 12              135.000   0.500   1.03       34     0.127   94.00    -101    -0.373
IV. OTHER
Cat. 13              643.000   2.380   4.90        0     0.000    0.00    -642    -2.380
TOTALS                13.123  30.100 100.00   1,156  3910.000  100.00
VIL CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
21.    The objectives of most of the components of the project were not achieved, despite
two restructuring of its design, in 1990 and 1993. The education management component
alone was notably successful, in that Ministry of Education (MINEDUC) staff underwent
training and technical assistance personnel were recruited.
22.    In order to improve the management of future projects, it would be advisable to
streamline bureaucratic procedures. Among other things, this would mean reducing the
number of agencies intervening in any project, and abandoning execution of projects by
ministries.



60                              ICR - C4MEROON: Education and Vocational Training Project
IX. LESSONS LEARNED
General
23.   Execution of this project extended over eight years, two of which were taken up in
redesigning or restructuring the project, with corresponding amendments to the Loan
Agreement. These efforts produced only the vaguest of results, and to all intents and
purposes must be regarded as having failed.
24.   One of the main factors contributing to the failure was the complexity of the project,
which depended on an association of three ministries, namely Education (MINEDUC), Higher
Education and Scientific Research (MESRES), and Labor and Social Welfare (MTPS). Given
the many difficulties that arose, it was virtually imnpossible to ensure efficient coordination of
all project components.
25.   The problem  manifested itself particularly in connection with the decision to
reorganize CENAFOP so that financing of its activities could go ahead. The Ministry of
Education, being in no position to interfere in institutional questions affecting the Ministry of
Labor and Social Welfare (MTPS), had to stand by powerless as the World Bank suspended
financing of this component of the project.
26.   When it became clear that counterpart funds were not available, the World Bank
should have treated the Government's arrears of payment as an internal question, without
making their availability a condition for the release of Loan proceeds.
Project Execution
27.   One lesson learned was that there were gaps in project design and that the execution
process was unwieldy. On two occasions during implementation, running of the project was
transferred from one Project Management Unit to another, at the instigation of the World
Bank. The problem doubtless stemmed from the Bank's concern (i) to ensure that MNEDUC
was able to provide fully effective project management, and (ii) to establish an autonomous
central entity that would be capable of coordinating the various project activities.
28.  - Before they join forces to implement a project, the Government and the World Bank
obviously need to negotiate an agreement that cannot be misinterpreted. It is especially
important that the Bank accept existing institutional agencies, even if this means strengthening
them through technical assistance.
29.   The Bank's repeated supervision missions were unable in the end to contribute
effectively to successful execution of this project. They proved to be merely routine missions
without any particular influence on how the project developed: the many specialists apparently
so well-qualified in their individual fields were unable, by utilizing formal methods of critical
assessment, to modify the course of the project in any positive sense.



Appendix B                                                                    61
30.   Furthermore, if the project restructuring of 1990 had taken due account of the
country's prevailing socioeconomic and financial circumstances, it would have called for 100%
World Bank financing of the remaining components, thus eliminating conditionalities, which
were the real obstacle to success with this social sector project.
Government
31.   The Government should be urged to devise a new basis on which to negotiate
education projects, one that is commensurate with its real capacity to contribute. In the case
of Education Project IV, the low rate of drawdown of Loan proceeds meant that the
Government had to pay commitment charges to very little purpose.



MAP



I I    f               D
suc" N
1311,
N
G-f.                                                                                                                        H   A
7                                                         " oe
CAMEROON
CAMEROUN
EDUCATiONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
PROJET EDUCATION ET FORMATIONPROFESSIONIVELLE
t 0 ATION (F mojFrT COP.IPOWNTS
LOCCALISATION DES CCAIPOSANTtS 00 PROJEI'
A   N.-,z T-0-,
F-We ...... i,d
CH,, d          t-h,iq-  , L y
Pi -g D"l-'.                                                             F
D11-11- d P1.1 ft                                                     G
Nmi-a C- F - A,,
c-l's vig", d, (-!v:
P,."
I         T,,,.-9
P-1-
r          ------
N I G E R I A
W-b.
N                                                                                         C  E N  T R A  L
MbWd                                                                                              A  F R I C  A  N
Npl                                                                                                                  P U B L IC
 N
M-"
0
CXJATCIRIAL
GUINEA
AO
Ab-
G A B 0 N                                                 C 0 N G 0
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
99



LAGI Nj
RePort No:         I513;
Typfe: ICR






