Documen of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
RhIsit No. P-4281-0C
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$30.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR AN
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
April 10, 1986
This I     ban a rolcted Eh1ibadom md may be _ed by ree*dlb guy in the pegfo,nee of
thM oda dude It eoat  my ma oherwe be dislsd withot Wedd fak  hghedon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 = CFAF 385
CFAF 1 million = US$2,595
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                              British/US Equivalent
1 meter                        =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (kM2)       =    0.39 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CENAFOP   -    National Center for Adult Vocational Training ("Centre
national de formation professionnelle continue")
CET       -    Lower Secondary Technical School ("Collage d'enseignement
technique")
CETI      -    Industrial CET ("CET industriel")
CETIC     -    Industrial and Commercial CET ("CET industriel et
commercial")
CETIF     -    Female Occupations CET ("CET metiers feminins")
CFPR      -    Accelerated Vocational Training Center ("Centre de Formation
Professionnelle Rapide")
DEPM      -    Directorate of Primary and Maternal Education ("Direction de
1'enseignement primaire et maternel")
DETP      -    Directorate of Technical and Professional Education
("Direction de l'enseignement technique et professionnel")
DMOFP     -    Directorate of Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects
("Direction de la main-d'oeuvre, de la formation
professionnelle et des Projets")
DPE       -    Education Projects Directorate ("Direction des projets
dducation")
DPFP      -    Vocational Training Project Directorate ("Direction du
projet de formation professionnelle")
DPOS      -    Educational Planning Division ("Division de la
planification et de l'orientation scolaires")
ENIA      -    Primary Teacher College ("Ecole normale d'instituteurs
adjoints")
ENS       -    Secondary Teacher College ("Ecole normale superieure")
ENSET     -    Technical Teacher Training School ("Ecole normale
superieure de l'enseignement technique")
FED       -    European Development Fund ("Fonds Europeen de
Developpement")                                              f
IPAR      -    Curriculum Development Center ("Institut de pedagogie
appliquee a vocation rurale")
KESRS     -    Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
("Ministere de l'enseignement superieur et de la recherche
scientifique")
MINEDUC   -    Ministry of National Education ("Ministere de l'Education
Nationale").
MTPS      -    Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare ("Ministare du
travail et de la prevoyance sociale")
FISCAL YEAR                              SCHOOL YEAR
July 1 - June 30                          September - June



FOR OMCLCIL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiaries: Ministry of National Education
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
Loan Amount:   US$30.1 million equivalent, of which US$22 million for the
Ministry of Education, and US$8.1 million for the Ministry of
Labor.
Terms:         20 years, including 5 years grace, at the standard variable rate.
Project
Description:   The major cbjectives of the project are to:
1.   Improve the quality of primary and technical secondary
education through:
(a) Increasing the number of qualified primary school
teachers by (i) constructing new facilities for three
existing primary teachers colleges (total of 600 places)
that would serve as regional centers for pre- and
in-service training; and (ii) preparing proposals for
improving the efficiency and reducing the costs of
primary teacher training;
(b)  Upgrading the practical skills of lower and upper
secondary technical school graduates by rehabilitating
and reequipping training facilities at 10 secondary
technical schools, as part of a strategy to improve
technical education, including technical teacher
training;
(c) Improx'-g the management of education through assistance
to: (i the Educational Planning Division for improved
plan=ing and management of resources; (ii) the
Directorate of Technical and Professional Education to
strengthen planning capacity and techalcal school
administratiLn, and to carry out pre-investment studies
for the rehabilitation of three other secondary technical
schools and for development of a maintenance system for
technical and science equipment; and (iii) the Education
Projects Directorate to strengthen its capacity for
project preparation and implementation.
This document hss a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2.  Increase the relevance of the vocatlonal training system to
tbe-labor arket through:
(a)  Sunporttng the-development of the National Center for
Adult Vocational Training by improving existing courses,
introducing ew courses, implementing a staff development
program (training and upgrading); and equipping the*
Center's new workshops;
(b)  Improving the mBaagemnt of vocational training by
str ngthening the capablities of the Directorate of
Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects for (1)
manpower planning and the management of training
resources, (ii) project preparation and implementation.
and (iii) the carrying out of pre-investment studies for
the creation of eight vocational training centers.-
development of an apprenticeship system, and creation of
an Office of Manpower and Continuous Training.



Su7mmary of Project Cost Estimate
- (net of taxes and- duties) a/ --
% of
..            .Local  Foreign. Total   Base Costs
-.: -       .-US   U                  Slin..
1. Improving the quality of
primary and technical
secondary education
(a) Primary Teachers Colleges>      12.4   .. 7.1    19.5.      41
(b) Secondary Technical Schools      3.9      6.7 .-.10.6       22
(c) Management of Education          1.1      4.5     5.6        12
Subtotal         17.4     18.3    35.7       75
2. Improving the relevance
of vocational training
(a) National Center for Adult               T
Vocational Training (CENAFOP)    3.8      5.3      9.1       19
(b) Management of Vocational
Training                         0.5      2.1      2.6        6
Subtotal          4.3      7.4    11.7       25
Total Base Costs                     21.7    25.7    47.4        100
Physical ContIngencies                1.6       1.6     3.2        7
Price Contingencies                   5.3      5.3    10.6        22
Total Project Costs                  28.6     32.6    61.2       129
Finencing Plan
IBRD                                    -     30.1    30.1        49
Government                           28.6      2.5    31.1        51
Total                                28.6     32.6    61.2       100
Estimated Loan Disbursement:
IBRD Fiscal Year
1987      1988    1989    1990    1991    1992     1993
-US$ milliono                  -
Annual          0.4       1.6     4.0     6.0      7.0     8.0      3.1
Cumulative      0.4       2.0     6.0    12.0    19.0    27.0    30.1
a/  Of which the project would be exempted.



Economic Rate
of Return:   Not applicable
Benefits and
Risks:       By improving the quality of primary education, secondary
technical education, and vocational training, the project
would help to meet some of the most urgent needs for
qualified manpower of an expanding economy. For the longer
term, it would strengthen the planning, policymaking and
management capabilities of the Ministries of National
Education and of Labor and Social Welfare, and it would
contribute to reinforcing the links between education,
training and employment. These measures would assist, in
the future, in the preparation of sound investment programs
and in their efficient implementation-two considerations
that will become increasingly critical as Ca-eroon's oil
revenues decline.  The main risk of the project, in light of
past Bank Group experience in the sector, is that of
implementation difficulties resulting from veak
institutions. To reduce this risk, special attention has
been given to the units, within the two involved technical
ministries, charged with Implementing the project: the
Education Projects Directorate in MINEDUC would be
strengthened and the Directorate of Manpower, Vocational
Training and Projects in MIPS reinforced, and each
Directorate would be provided with appropriate staff and
technical assistance under the project. To ensure timely
posting of the technical assistance personnel, a condition
of loan effectiveness would be the signing of their
contracts. To ensure that the technical assistance will
create a local capability rather than substitute for it, the
staff development program would be closely monitored. The
second risk-rapid deterioration of the new equipment for
the secondary technical schools-would be addressed through
the development of a maintenance system.
Appraisal Report: No. 5519-CM
MAP: IBRD 18815
WAZDC
March 1985



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOYSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR AN EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Cameroon for the equivalent of US$30.1 million to help
finance an Educational and Vocational Training Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the standard variable
interest rate. US$22 million of its proceeds would be made available to the
Ministry of National Education (MINEDUC) and US$8.1 million, to the Ministry of
Labor and Social Welfare (MTPS).
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon-Economic Memorandum"
(Report No. 2877-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30,
1980. Since then, several economic and sector missions have visited Cameroon,
the most recent one in February, 1986. Their major findings, including
preliminary work on the changed oil reserve situation, are incorporated in the
following paragraphs. Annex I provides basic country data.
BI^souE_nd
3.        Cameroon is one of Africa's most diverse countries, with a wide
variety of climatic and ecological zones, ethnic groups, languages, and
traditional cultures.  It has an estimated population of 10 million (1985) and
covers an area of 475,000 kM2. The overall density is low, but there are
several densely-populated regions in the west and the extreme north. The main
centers of population and economic activity are widely separated, making the
development and maintenance of an adequate transportation network vital but
also costly. Cameroon's main opportunities for development lie in the
expansion of agricultural, livestock and forestry production; and the
processing of agricultural and forestry products for domestic consumption and
export. Cameroon became an oil producer in 1978 and total production is
estimated at 8 million tons for 1985. Most of the oil is exported as crude;
only about 1.2 million tons are refined in Cameroon, to meet domestic demand.
4.        Basically an agricultural economy at independence in 1960, Cameroon
has experienced rapid rural-urban migration; over one-third of the population
now lives in the cities.  Douala, the major industrial center and port, has an
estimated population of about one million; Yaounde, the capital, is the second
largest city, with an estimated 500,000 residents. Apart from these two large
cities, several otner urban areas of significant size play important roles in
the economies of the various regions.
5.        The stated development philosopy of the Government of Cameroon is
"communitarian liberalism" , characterized by five-year indicative investment
plans and a mixture of private and public ownership. Market forces are
tempered by extensive Government regulation in areas such as price control,



-2-
investment, interest rates and credit allocation, the latter under the
framework of the franc zone system for equatorial Africa. In general, the
Government's macroeconomic policies have been prudent and Cameroon's GNP per
capita (US$800 in 1983) is one of the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. In line
with the Government's emphasis on balanced iLogional development and strong
central authority, the country has enjoyed exceptional economic and social
stability and the surge in oil revenues coming at the beginning of the decade
was handled without major economic disruptions.
6.        The past few years have been a period of transition.  In November
1982, after almost 25 years in power, President Ahmadou Ahidjo resigned and his
constitutional successor, Prime Minister Paul Biya, becAme President.
President Biya consolidated his power in September 1983 when he was elected
president of the sole political party and in January 1984 when he was confirmed
as President of Cameroon in a naticial election. However, the country was
shaken in April 1984 when a group of soldiers launched an unsuccessful coup
attempt. Over the past two years, Mr. Biya has promised a more democratic
style of government, more rigor in the management of public funds and greater
social justice. The new Government is committed to economic liberalization,
although still within the context of "communitarian liberalism".  It has also
endorsed the objectives of preserving a strong agricultural base, maintaining
food self-sufficiency, and building up social and transport infrastructure. It
has expressed strong interest in improving the efficiency of state enterprises,
including, in some cases, through privatization, and is planning substantial
changes in its financial system.
Economic and Social Developments
7.        In recent years Cameroon has registered a remarkable overall economic
and financial performance. Growth averaged 6.9 percent per annum in the second
half of the 1970s and is estimated at about 9.1 percent per annum for the first
half of the 1980s. Fixed investment, which was only 10 percent of GDP in the
early 1960s grew to an average of about 20 percent in the second half of the
1970s and to an estimated 25 percent in 1985 while remaining in line with the
country's absorptive capacity. Domestic savings have been more than sufficient
to finance domestic investment since the end of the 1970s. While this
performance has been attributable largely to the rapid expansion of crude oil
production and exports which started in 1979/80, the fact that Cameroon managed
to accumulate substantial overseas balances at the same time attests to a
prudence, rare among oil-exporting countries, in keeping public spending within
reasonable bounds. Recourse to external borrowing has been limited and the
debt service ratio has consistently remained around the 10 percent level.
8.        The good overall economic and financial performance of Cameroon
hides, however, a number of structural problems. Export crops have not
performed particularly well over the past five years because of deteriorating
terms of trade for the producers and the migration of the younger rural
population to the cities. Manufacturing growth took place through the impetus
of some protection and through the establishment of an inefficient public
enterprise sector accounting for about 7% of GDP which represents an increasing
burden on the budget. The financial sector is relatively underdeveloped and
does not have the capability to intermediate efficiently public savings to
private investors or to mobilize private savings, especially in preparation for



- 3 -
the post-oil era. Although part of the government oil revenue has been saved,
an Increasing portion has been used to finance rapidly growing recurrent
expenditures, an expansion of agricultural support programs, including input
subsidies, and increased assistance to ailing industrial public enterprises,
including the servicing of their debts.
9.        Steady progress has been made in the well-being of the population
over the past two decades; however, much remains to be done in the social
sectors. Enrollments increased considerably at all levels of the educational
system, but its quality and efficiency deteriorated. Health-related indicators -
are on the low side, considering Cameroon's overall level of economic
development. Life expectancy at birth is a low 53 years, the result of a high
infant mortality rate due to inadequate health coverage, poor access to water
supply, lack of sanitation services in crowded urban areas and poor nutrition
and health practices.
10.       In 1981, about 40 percent of the rural population was considered to
live in absolute poverty, i.e., with an annual per capita income of less than
US$105.  This may in part explain the heavy rural out-migration to Yaounde and
Douala, where average incomes are considerably higher than in the countryside
in part fueled by the expenditure of increasing oil revenues giving rise to
expectations of formal sector employment under favorable conditions. In fact,
conditions in these cities are not much more favorable: one quarter of their
population is classified as absolutely poor.
Development Prospects and Issues
11.       The basic problem to which Cameroon must address itself in the near
future is the recent sharp downturn in oil prices. Lower world prices have
reduced the reserves which can be profitably exploited. Thus Cameroon must
face a situation where it must absorb, within a period of a few years, not only
a 15% cut in GDP, but a 45% drop in current revenues and a 50% cut in exports
of goods and services as well. Fortunately, because of its cautious behavior
in the past and large financial savings, Cameroon is relatively well-placed to
deal with the new situation.  Moreover, industry is dependent upon imported
inputs so that a compression of imports will not meaningfully harm domestic
industry and employment. Per capita private consumption has been growing
rapidly in real terms so that some reduction will not necessarily represent a
hardship. However, while Cameroon is in a privileged situation with its
presently relatively small external debt, its borrowing capacity is in itself
limited by the prospects for declining export receipts.
12.       Essentially, Cameroon's adjustment to the new situation will have to
be largely twofold: (a) measures aimed at reducing private and public
consumption and, to a substantial extent, domestic investments, and (b)
measures reorienting the economy toward exports. With respect to the first,
private consumption growth should be slowed through fiscal and other measures.
Simultaneously, current public expenditures, which considerably outstripped
nominal GDP growth during the oil era, must be restrained, and non-essential
investments curtailed. While most of these measures would tend to offset the
losses to the budget of oil revenues, if they are well-designed they should
also bring about a lowering of real wages and a depreciation of the real
exchange rate, which in turn will tend to redress the trade balance. However,



-4-
far reaching actions for the stimulation of exports must also be undertaken.
In particular, producer prices of export crops must be raised substantially in
real terms if the nearly stagnant sector is to revive sufficiently to play its
role in offsetting the balance of payments impact of the drop of oil exports.
Such measures would have to be associated with increased attention to the
institutional support of the agriculture sector. Moreover, incentives will
also be required for the increased orientation of industrial incentives toward
exports, among others through tax and tariff reform. Finally, financial sector
reforms in the longer run will be necessary if the financial system is to
mobilize adequate private financial savings and intermediate their flow into
more productive investments than is now the case.
13.       In the longer term, the major issue is to cope with a fast-expanding
population. Although its growth rate, currently estimated at 3.2 percent p.a.
is not unco,mon in the regional context, it is accelerating, and Cameroon's
population is expected to nearly double in 22 years. The urban population
would triple to 9 million. Providing meaningful employment opportunities to a
sharply expanding urban labor force is and will remain a major challenge for
the Cameroonian authorities. At present only 22 percent of the labor force is
employed outside agriculture, 9 percent in industry and 13 percent in services.
If large-scale unemployment is to be avoided in cities, by the year 2000 about
2 million jobs would have to be added to the existing 750,000 outside
agriculture.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
14.       Total public external debt outstanding and disbursed rose from US$371
million at the end of 1976 to US$1.7 billinn at the end of 1984. Debt service
payments rose from US$39 million in 1976 to US$221 million in 1984, while
exports increased from US$700 million in 1976 to about US$2.5 billion in 1984.
However, Cameroon's traditionally modest reliance on external financing has
been followed, during the oil era of increased financial independence, by
diminished recourse to external borrowing and some prepayment of foreign loans.
Gross disbursements against public and publicly guaranteed external borrowing
have dropped from a peak of US$564 million in 1980 to US$182 million in 1984.
Net transfers have fallen from a peak of US$389 million in 1979 to minus US$40
million in 1984, when debt service payments exceeded gross disbursements.
Rising interest rates, a hardening of average loan terms and the appreciation
of the dollar increased Cameroon's debt service ratio somewhat in the early
1980s. Increased borrowing will be required in the second half of the decade
to compensate for declining oil revenues. However, the debt service ratio
appears likely to remain below 15 percent for the rest of the decade. Cameroon
is fundamentally creditworthy.
PART II.   BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
15.       Bank and IDA commitments in Cameroon as of September 30, 1985,
amounted to US$954 million equivalent and covered 47 projects: 22 in agri-
culture, 15 in transportation, 3 in education, 3 in public utilities, 1 small-
and medium-scale enterprise project, 2 technical assistance projects and 1



-5-
urban project (Annex II). Transport and agriculture account respectively for
about 50 percent and 38 percent of these commitments. IFC had invested in
eight enterprises, with total net loan/equity commitments of US$10.9 million.
16.       Performance in project implementation is, on average, good in the
transport sector, mixed in agriculture and mediocre in other sectors. The
Government has generally shown wlllingness to collaborate with the Bank in
finding solutions, but implementation delays and setbacks have occurred,
notably over the last year in the wake of recent political changes. In
particular, the overall disbursement rate, which used to compare favorably
with that of most other countries, has slowed down due to administrative
bottlenecks, notably in the central procurement agency. Technical assistance
is being arranged to help streamline procurement procedures.
17.       The Bank"s initial investment strategy in Cameroon was to support the
Government's development effotts in three main directions: (a) strengthening
and extending the road and rail trunk systems and improving the port of Douala;
(b) raising agricultural output and exports; and (c) improving education.
Until 1975, apart from one water supply project, Bank lending was concentrated
entirely in the transport, agriculture and education sectors. Since 1975, Bank
lending has diversified into forestry, small- and medium-scale industry, urban
development, technical assistance and telecommunications. For the immediate
future, projects are being prepared in agriculture to support Government's
objectives of increasing smallholders' productivity and improving the quality
of rural life; in transport to upgrade, expand and maintain the network; in
urban development to build up the local governments' capabilities to cope with
fast growth; in education/manpower trainin   to meet the rapidly increasing
skill requirements of the economy; and in health, to promote services in rural
areas.
18.       Faced with a decline of its oil revenues, the Government of Cameroon
would like the Bank to maintain an active assistance program as (a) a way of
ensuring a smooth and continued flow of resources for development; (b) a
vehicle for technical assistance in project design and implementation; (c) a
guarantee of impartiality in providing guidance; and (d) a source of advice for
policy reform. The rationale underlying the Bank's program lies in the need to
meet the country's increased and more complex requirements for development
assistance. To ensure productive use of its oil revenues and prepare for the
post-oil era, Government must make critical decisions concerning the size and
composition of the domestic investment program and the removal of the major
development bottlenecks. The Bank's major objectives are to strengthen
Government policy making, investment planning and implementing capabilities;
promote private intitiatives and reduce the role of the parapublic sector in
the economy; develop the country's human resource base; and Improve the living
conditions of low-income groups.
19.       To reach its objectives the Bank will increasingly use sectoral
approaches combining lending, intensified economic and sector work and
technical assistance to the central and technical ministries. The Bank is in
the process of discussing with Government several strategy papers for the major
sectors with a view to reaching broad agreement on a macroeconomic and sectoral
policy framework. This dialogue should pave the way for a more sectoral
approach to lending in support of well-defined Government programs. Key topics



- 6 -
for discussion will be the role of the public enterprise sector, trade
liberalization and pricing policies, the pace and pattern of resource
development, skilled manpower constraints and needs, and administrative reform.
Although the Government is eager to move toward sectoral approaches,
differences of opinion on their content might delay their formulation and
implementation; nevertheless, the nature of the Bank's involvement is expected
to shift toward fewer but larger sectoral operations.
20.       Disbursements of official development assistance during the second
half of the 1960s amounted to about US$45 million a year, mostly in the form of
grants. France provided most of the assistance. In the 1970s, foreign aid
increased to about US$90 million a year, with only one-fifth in the form of
grants. Bank and IDA financing amounted to about 23 percent of total
disbursements and the Bank Group became the major source of public assistance.
Cofinancing has been featured in 25 of the 47 Bank-financed projects and is
being actively sought for several projects under consideration to improve aid
coordination and support a gradual shift to private financing.
21.       In 1984, disbursements from private sources accounted for 10 percent
of total disbursements under public debt, down from 61 percent in 1982. Public
external debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1984, amounted to
US$1.7 billion, 15 percent of which was in the form of Bank loans and 13
percent in IDA credits. Bank loans in 1984 accounted for 12.6 percent of
public external debt service and IDA credits for 0.1 percent.  By end-1985,
Bank loans and IDA credits were projected to account for about 26 percent of
debt outstanding and about 14 percent of debt service.
PART III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A.  The Education and Training System
22.       The inadequacy of the education system in providing basic literacy
and numeracy, combined with limited opportunities for technical and vocational
training, has led to severe deficits in skilled manDower and to low labor
productivity. Especially severe are the shortages of technically trained
manpower for the fast-growing industrial sector, with the secondary technical
schools' output providing only about 25 percent of that sector's estimated
annual requirements. Unless action is taken, this situation is likely to
deteriorate further, since the population of 10 million (in 1985), growing at
3.2 percent per annum, is expected to nearly double in 22 years.
23.       This is uot due to a lack of Government's effort:  at the primary
level alone, between 1960 and 1984 the number of children attending school
quadrupled to about 1.6 million, bringing the total net enrollment ratio to 78
percent. The Government has made considerable progress in establishing and
delivering public school services, increasing their share from about 33 to 65
percent of total enrollment at the primary level. As a result, Cameroon ranks
very high in quantitative terms as compared with other African countries.
However, the effort has stretched the education system's capabilities beyond
its limit and has adversely affected the quality of instruction. For reasons
explained in paragraph 25, internal efficiency is low at all educational



levels, and the training provided does not adequately prepare students to
either meet the needs of the labor market or to move to higher levels.
24.       Structure and organization.  As a legacy of colonial times, the
general education structure in Cameroon follows the English pattern in the West
and Northwest Provinces, and the French pattern in the eight other provinces.
The Ministry of National Education (MINEDUC) is responsible for all levels of
the formal system except post-secondary education, which falls under the
recently created Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MESRS).
MINEDUC has centralized decisionmaking in Yaounde and delegated operational
responsibilities to its directorates and its Educational Planning Division
(DPOS). The latter, and the Directorate of Technical and Professional
Education (DETP) have key roles in formulating the Government's sectoral
policies, and planning and managing the development of education.
Responsibility for vocational training and skill upgrading rests with the
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (MTPS) and its Directorate of Manpower,
Vocational Training and Projects (DMOFP).
B.   Government Strategy for Educational Development
25.       In the Fifth Development Plan (1981-86), the Government emphasized
human resource development, increasing the share of education in the national
investment budget to 8.8 percent (from 5 percent in the Fourth Plan), for a
total of US$565 million. Although the Plan lacked a sound analysis of
investment and reform priorities as well as a comprehensive development
strategy for the sector, the Government's de facto sectoral priorities were to:
(a) expand and improve the quality of technical education and vocational
training as rapidly as possible to alleviate the severe manpower constraints
that are hampering the economy; (b) expand and improve the quality of primary
education to achieve universality by the end of the century; and (c) strengthen
the planning end management capabilities of the key sectoral institutions to
improve resource use and remove absorptive capacity bottlenecks. These
priorities have guided the design of the proposed project. While data and
analysis for supporting them are still limited, the social demand for education
is so strong, the shortages of qualified manpower so pervasive, and the
constraints on implementation so severe, that there is little doubt that these
sectoral objectives are sound from an equity as well as an efficiency
viewpoint. This has been confirmed by a recently completed survey of the
Education and Training sector, prepared by Government and the UNESCO/Bank
Cooperative Program, under Bank financing. Beginning in April 1985, the survey
has served as a basis for wide-ranging tripartite sectoral discussions,
including Bank/UNESCO assistance to preparation of the Sixth Plan (1986-91).
Early indications are that the emerging strategy will pursue the same
objectives. However, under the Sixth Plan, special emphasis will be given to
the linkage between education and employment. To what extent these objectives
can be achieved will largely depend on the Government's ability to improve the
planning and implementing capabilities of the responsible institutions.



-8-
C.  The Issues
26.       The survey just mentioned thoroughly analyzed a number of issues,
including: (a) deficiencies in the quality and output of primary and technical
secondary education; (b) the inadequacy of the vocational training system in
meeting the modern sector's requirements for skilled workers; and (c) the lack
of a strong institutional framework for strategic thinking, policy analysis,
investment planning and management of the sector. These three critical
constraints would be the focus of this project; others, such as the costs and
financing of education and manpower issues would also be partly tackled but
require further study and would be addressed under subsequent projects.
L.  Quality of Primary and Technical Secondary Education
27.       Primary education.  At the primary level, the low quality of
education is the major deficiency. Over the 1977-84 period, enrollments have
grown at an average rate of 4.5 percent p.a. to total about 1.6 million (45
percent girls) with net ratios ranging from 70 percent to 100 percent (except
in the northern provinces, with about 30 percent). However, this has not been
matched by improvements in internal efficiency: about 50 percent of the
students enrolled in Grade 1 drop out before completing primary education; of
the remaining students, only 60 percent pass the primary certification
examination. The low quality of primary education is attributable mainly to
the relatively small number of qualified teachers. According to official
estimates, in 1981/82 only 40 percent of the teaching force of 28.600 could be
considered as qualified. This results from the low output of the primary
teacher training system. The present training capacity, providing an annual
output of 1,500 teachers, would only meet about 60 percent of estimated needs
based on the projected primary enrollment growth (1989/90), with a 1:50
teacher/student ratio. The capacity to provide pre- and in-service trainfng is
severely constrained by (a) inadequate physical facilities, largely in a state
of disrepair; (b) deficiencies in the teacher training programs, which have
been too theoretical and lacking in software support (textbooks, teaching aids
and educational materials); and (c) weakness in the management of human
resources, as the administrative and teaching staff is adequate in numbers but
could be used more efficiently.
28.       In order to address these constraints, the Government is undertaking
a series of actions. On the institutional side, these include: (a)
reorganization of the MINEDUC's Directorate of Primary and ?iaternal Education,
with a new service in charge of primary teacher training; (b) the revision of
primary school curricula; and (c) a comprehensive primary teacher development
program covering pre- and in-service training, development of teaching
methodologies, a library system, teachers guides and other aids, curricula
improvement, administrative restructuring of the primary teachers colleges
(ENIAs), and a review of the system's organization and management. On the
physical facilities side, the Government's plans include: (a) the
rehabilitation of five traditional ENIAs in the North and Northwest Provinces;
and (b) the construction/equipping of new facilities for three ENIAs, which are
located in the provinces with the highest primary education enrollments and
presently are housed in very inadequate buildings. This program is expected to
improve the quality and efficiency of primary teacher training and increase the
total capacity to about 70 percent of estimated requirements. Prepared by the



Bank and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). it is
being supported by a USAID loan-cum-grant of about US$29 million, approved in
November 1984. The Bank would finance under the proposed project the
construction and equipment of the three ENIAs ((b) above) and a study on ways
to improve the efficiency and reduce the costs of the teacher training system.
29.       Secondary technical schools do not produce practically trained gradu-
ates in sufficient numbers, despite the rapid growth of enrollments (9.5
percent p.a. on average between 1977 and 1984). In 1981/82, about 54,000
students were enrolled, 45,000 in lower secondary technical schools (CETs) and
9,000 in upper secondary technical schools ("Lycees techniques"). Industrial
enrollments represent only about 39 percent of the total in the CETs and about
12 percent in the Lycees. Although curricula provide for a reasonable balance
between theoretical and practical courses, the teaching of the latter suffers
from structural deficiencies in the school workshops, the scarcity and poor
condition of equipment and inadequate maintenance, and an insufficiently
qualified teaching cadre. As a result, dropout rates are high (about 32
percent for the lower and 75 percent for the upper secondary level) and success
rates in final examinations are low (about 18 and 26 percent). Consequently,
the system has a consistently low output of qualified graduates: about 2,000
for the CETs (75 percent in industrial disciplines) and about 500 for the
Lycees (20 percent, or about 100, in industrial disciplines). Moreover, the
profiles of graduates do not match the needs of the modern sector.
30.       In order to address these constraints, the Government proposes a
number of measures, including: (a) the rehabilitation of the training facili-
ties in the older schools; (b) the development of a purchase and maintenance
system for technical and science equipment; (c) the strengthening of school
administration and of the planning and management capabilities of the central
institutions responsible for technical education; and (d) the training and
upgrading of the technical teaching cadre. This program is expected to improve
efficiency, increase the output of graduates and better prepare them to meet
the demand for industrial skills; it would also contribute to reducing the
wastage of resources. The first three measures would form part of the proposed
project (para. 42). Technical teacher training would be addressed under a
separate Bank project under preparation, which would support the Technical
Teacher Training School (ENSET) in Douala.
31.       Planning and management of education.  The central institutions
responsible for planning and managing the Government's educational development
effort need strengthening. The low quality of primary education stems largely
from management deficiencies and the lack of local capability to analyze
investment and reform priorities and prepare comprehensive plans to improve
internal efficiency. Similar deficiencies explain the inability of the
secondary technical schools to meet an expanding economy's qualitative and
quantitative requirements for technically qualified personnel. The Ministry of
National Education (MINEDUC) is handicapped by the unreliability of its data
base, a shortage of qualified educational planners and statisticians, and the
lack of staff development opportunities. The functions of its Educational
Planning Division (DPOS) are limited to administering an annual statistical
questionnaire, compiling the data manually, and estimating recurrent budgets.
Its Directorate for Technical and Professional Education (DETP) , already
overburdened with the task of managing the existing schools, is also expected



- 10 -
to plan and manage more efficiently the rapidly expanding and diversifying
technical education subsector. Finally, MINEDUC's Education Projects
Directorate (DPE) also needs to build up its capacity to prepare, implement and
evaluate an increasing number of projects. The project would address these
weaknesses through an integrated training and technical assistance program
(paras. 43-46).
32.       Costs and financing.  The financial implications of the Government's
planned expansion and improvement of primary and technical secondary education
have not yet been fully analyzed. A number of problems are involved. First,
appropriations for the sector, representing 8.2 percent of total investment
budget and 15.6 percent of total recurrent budget, are insufficient in view of
the economy's needs. In particular, the recurrent budget has not increased in
line with investment and is overwhelmingly absorbed by salaries and fellowships
(90 percent), while only about 2 percent is devoted to such essential inputs as
learning materials and school maintenance. This, combined with the employment
of unqualified teachers and the self-financing of the private schools
(36 percent of primary and 54 percent of secondary school enrollments),
explains the comparatively low per-student cost. However, cost efficiency is
low, posing a second problem. Two other related problems are the weak
absorptive capacity of the system, as evidenced by the underutilization of
planned expenditures in the past (43.4 percent under the Third Plan and
47 percent under the Fourth Plan), and the upcoming exhaustion of oil revenues,
(around 1995), which will sharpen the need for rigorous investment and current
expenditure prioritization. These issues would be addressed, for the short
term, by including in the Government's contribution, adequate provision for
recurrent costs, reflecting increased appropriations for non-salary inputs
(para. 59); for the longer term, by: (a) introducing measures to improve the
cost-efficiency of primary education (para. 40); (b) developing a financial
planning mechanism based on recommendations made in the sector survey
(paras. 25 and 44); and (c) creating a permanent capacity for sound investment
planning and analysis, and cost-efficient use of scarce resources (paras. 43-46
and 48).
2.   Relevance of the Vocational Training System to the Labor Market
33.       The vocational training subsector faces the dual challenge of expand-
ing its training and skill upgrading capacity and improving the quality of the
training to make it more relevant to employers' needs. First, since some
12,000 modern jobs are to be created annually during the 1980s, there is a need
for additional manpower in the form of well- qualified graduates of the
technical schools. Second, since about two-thirds of the manpower employed in
the modern sector (totalling about 430,000 in 1981) did not attain the primary
level certificate, training remains essential to upgrade the skills of present
labor and keep those of future employees current. However, the inadequacy of
the vocational training/skill upgrading system, combined with the inefficiency
and poor quality of the secondary technical education, is a major cause for the
low level of skills throughout the work force. The system, under the authority
of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, comprises only the semi-
autonomous National Center for Adult Vocational Training (CENAFOP), with 250
student places, and the five accelerated vocational training centers (CFPRs),
with a total capacity of about 300 trainees, of whom only 25 are enrolled in
industrial disciplines.



- 11 -
34.       The Government is giving high priority to remedying this shortfall in
skilled workers, particularly by providing short vocational training programs
for the large number of young school leavers and by systematically upgrading
the skills of existing industrial labor. CENAFOP's role has become
increasingly important in light of the growing shortages of qualified lower-
and middle manpower. Long before the center was fully operational (it was
established in 1981 under Credit 320-CM), it was recognized that its industrial
training requirements had been underestimated. Therefore, the Government has
begun to expand and reorganize CENAFOP's facilities and to diversify the course
offerings. But a staff development program is needed to enable the Center to
improve the relevance of existing courses and introduce new ones adapted to an
increasingly complex industrial sector. Moreover, CENAFOP has newly built
workshops which are not yet adequately organized and equipped to provide
training in the most needed specializations (auto-mechanics, metal work, air-
conditioning/refrigeration, electricity and electronics, general and
maintenance mechanics). For the CFPRs, a thorough study is called for to
assess the needs for renovation and for expansion of the network. These
activities would be undertaken under the project (paras. 47-49).
35.       Planning and management of vocational training.  Within the Ministry
of Labor and Social Welfare, the capacity of the recently reorganized Director-
ate of Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects does not match its growing
responsibilities. Its Manpower Sub-Directorate is expected to monitor the
labor market and the economy's quantitative and qualitative manpower needs, and
the Vocational Training Sub-Directorate, to assess overall requirements for
training and skill upgrading, or to plan, coordinate and manage the expansion
and improvement of the vocational training network. However, both are
understaffed and lack the data base, capability and training opportunities to
perform efficiently. Therefore, the project would reinforce DMOFP's capacity
for evaluating investment priorities on the basis of the modern sector's man-
power needs, and for planning and managing training resources, conducting
manpower surveys and pre-investment studies, and preparing and implementing
projects (para. 48).
D.   The Bank Group's Role in Educational Development
36.       The Bank group has financed three projects in the education sector in
Cameroon (totalling about US$38 million). The emphasis of these operations has
been on: (a) improving the quality of general education by supporting teacher
training, and (b) making the education and training system more responsive to
the needs of the modern sector by supporting the diversification of general
secondary education and the establishment of employer-supported training
programs. The First Education Project (Cr. 161-CM for US$11.7 million, signed
in September 1969 and closed on June 30, 1979; PPAR No. 2368 dated February 12,
1979) and the Second Education Project (Cr. 320-CM for US$9.0 million, signed
in June 1972 and closed on June 30, 1982; PPAR No. 4900 dated January 20, 1984)
supported primary teacher training, general and technical secondary education,
and skill upgrading for industry. The Third Education Project (Loan 1245T-CM
for US$17.0 million, signed in July 1976 and closed on December 31, 1984; PPAR
under preparation) emphasized agricultural and technical education.
Implementation of these three projects has been mediocre. They contributed to
increasing the capacity and regional distribution of primary and secondary
education. Physical targets generally were met, albeit with considerable



- 12 -
delays and cost overruns, but at the expense of the pedagogical objectives,
which as a result were largely not reached. Insufficient preparation of the
technical assistance programs, recruitment delays and inadequate monitoring
adversely affected the effectiveness of those programs. In light of the
lessons learned from these operations, the proposed project emphasizes
institution building, aiming at establishing a strong sectoral planning
capability, ensuring that the implementing directorates receive appropriate
support and staff, and bringing the processing of architectural designs,
engineering, and technical assistance contracts to an advanced stage prior to
project finalisation.
37.       Human resource development is a key element in the Bank's strategy
for Cameroon and the proposed project represents an important step toward
formulating and implementing a broad-based program in this area. The Bank's
major concern is to help the country use its oil revenues productively and to
prepare for the post-oil era. In line with Government's priorities (para. 24)
Bank support to the sector focuses on the alleviation of critical manpower
bottlenecks, quality improvement of the education/training system at all levels
to raise labor productivity, and the strengthening of sectoral planning and
implementing institutions in order to prepare future sectoral development in
the context of a rapidly growing population. This new emphasis on institution-
building constitutes the main rationale for Bank involvement in the proposed
project, a cornerstone for the Bank strategy in the sector. Another project is
being prepared to improve technical teacher training, through assistance to the
ENSET (para. 29). A coherent strategy to further expand and strengthen the
system, and to deal with its financing issues, is being developed on the basis
of a comprehensive program of studies. Improved sector knowledge and policy
dialogue, as well as the strengthened institutional capacity, are expected to
create adequate conditioxis for preparing a series of projects that will be
better designed, organized and managed.
38.       Donor coordination.  Several donors actively support the Government's
human resource development programs. USAID is principally involved in primary
education (para. 27); the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
focuses on technical secondary and vocational training, and the French "Fonds
d'Aide et de Cooperation" (FAC) intervenes at various levels of the system.
However, until recently, Government has tended to deal with each donor
separately. Therefore, in the absence of cofinancing arrangements, during
preparation close contacts were maintained with these donors to avoid
duplication of efforts, and implementation arrangements provide for systematic
coordination. For the future, the sector survey is becoming a reference
document for various sources of assistance, and the definition of a long-term
strategy integrating investment, reform and training is expected to help the
Government to coordinate and manage more efficiently donor interventions on the
basis of their comparative advantages.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
39.       The project has two major objectives:  to improve the quality of
primary and technical secondary education; and to increase the relevance of the



- 13 -
vocational training system to the labor market. In order to achieve the first
objective, the project would: (a) Increase the number of qualified primary
school teachers by constructing and equipping new facilities for three primary
teachers colleges (ENIAs) and by preparing proposals for improving the
efficiency and reducing the costs of primary teacher training; (b) upgrade the
practical skills of lover and upper secondary technical school graduates by
rehabilitating training facilities at 10 secondary technical schools; and (c)
improve the planning and management of the education system through
strengthening the capabilities of the key units in the Ministry of National
Education.
40.       In order to achieve the second objective-increasing the relevance of
the vocational training system to the labor market-the project would:  (a)
support the development of the CENAFOP by improving existing courses,
introducing new courses, implementing a staff development program, and
equipping the Center's new workshops; and (b) improve manpower planning and the
management of vocational training by strengthening the Directorate of Manpower,
Vocational Training and Projects (DMOFP) in the Ministry of Labor and Social
Welfare (NIPS). The project was appraised in May 1984. Negotiations were held
in Washington from January 27 to 31, 1986. The Cameroonian delegation was led
by Mr. Okouda, Deputy Director of Economic and Technical Cooperation in the
Ministry of Plan.  Details of the project are contained in the Staff Appraisal
Report which is being circulated separately; its main features are highlighted
in the Loan and Project Summary, supplemented by Annex III.
1. Improving the Quality of Primary and Technical Secondary Education
41.       To improve the quality of primary education, the project would:  (a)
construct and equip new facilities for three ENIAs (no expansion involved) each
with 200 places; their sites were chosen and the new facilities were designed
to accommodate the more practical, rural-oriented training course to be offered
to selected junior secondary school certificate holders and to serve as
regional resource centers for teacher training and upgrading; and (b) assist
the Directorate of Primary and Maternal Education (DEPH) in conducting a study
to prepare proposals for improving the efficiency and reducing the costs of
primary teacher training. These proposals would be reviewed with the Bank,
implemented initially at the three ENIAs and further developed nationally.
Curricula would be gradually improved by regionally based Cameroonian-USAID
teams, with inputs from a Bank-financed education specialist in DPE. The USAID
program would also develop teacher training software, for which a doubling of
the operating budget of the three Bank-financed ENIAs has been included in the
project (para. 59).
42.       The project would finance (a) construction, architectural fees,
furniture and equipment for the three ENIAs; and (b) 12 staffmonths of
consultant services for assisting the DEPM in the primary teacher training
study. To ensure that the new ENIA facilities will be operated with optimal
efficiency, Government agreed to implement the study's agreed upon proposals
when the three ENIAs open. To ensure close coordination with the
USAID-financed program, the Government also agreed to submit to the Bank an
annual progress report on that program; this report would serve as a basis for
exchange of views leading to an agreement on the proposed new teacher training



- 14 -
programs by PY3 and their implementation in the Bank-financed facilities within
12 months thereafter.
43.       To improve the quality of instruction in secondary technical
education, the project would support the Government's plans to renovate
and maintain existing workshops and equipment (para. 29). It would
rehabilitate and reequip training facilities in 10 schools, totalling more than
6,000 students. This program would be similar to one completed for six
technical colleges with the support of the European Development Fund (FED). A
maintenance program would be introduced. Since outputs in industrial
disciplines at the upper secondary technical level are especially limited,
support to the largest industrial lycees, located in the most industrialized
area of Cameroon, would also be provided. The project would finance civil
works (minor repairs and utilities), the provision of new equipment in all 10
schools, and structural extensions in two schools. The financial plan includes
provision by the Government of adequate recurrent funds (para. 59).
44.       Management of education.  To increase the overall efficiency of the
education system, the project would strengthen MINEDUC's institutional capacity
with respect to: (a) data collection and analysis, policy formulation,
educational planning and programming; (b) budgeting, planning and management
(including maintenance) of the technical education subsector; and (c) project
preparation, implementation and evaluation. To this end, MINEDUC's Educational
Planning Division (DPOS), Directorate of Technical and Professional Education
(DETP), and Education Projects Directorate (DPE) would be substantially
reinforced, a capacity to carry out studies would be created, and a staff
deve'lopment program would be carried out by a team of national and expatriate
specialists (paras. 53-54). This would be achieved through a program
integrating specialist and consultant services, fellowships abroad and local
seminars, as described below.
45.       DPOS would follow-up on the sector survey (para. 25) with specific
studies and would develop a system to ensure the timely processing of
pedagogical, administrative and financial data. The surveys would serve as a
vehicle for the staff development program, which would involve all levels of
MINEDUC's planning staff. A specialist in education finance would develop
procedures to improve budget preparation, with particular emphasis on recurrent
expenditures. The project would finance 96 staffmonths of specialist and
consultant services, 103 staffmonths of fellowships for professional staff, and
128 staffmonths of local seminars for planning and statistical support staff,
as well as furniture and equipment for DPOS.
46.       The capabilities of DETP would be reinforced to provide (a) data on
technical school facilities and staff; (b) a system for evaluating existing
courses and a methodology for continuous instructor training and upgrading; (c)
mechanisms to strengthen the tehnical education-employment linkage; (d) a
capacity for resource planning/management; (e) a preinvestment study for new
training facilities in three secondary technical schools; (f) the effective
operation of a newly created maintenance unit with four local specialists to
implement a maintenance program; and (e) a preinvestment study for a permanent
purchasing/maintenance system for technical and science equipment. The project
would finance equipment as well as 102 staffmonths of specialist and consultant
services and 102 staffmonths of fellowships. The appointment of four local



- 15 -
specialists to constitute the core staff of the maintenance unit would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
47.       DPE, which is responsible for the implementation of this component
and for the preparation of future education projects, would be reorganized and
strengthened with additional staff and technical assistance. To assist DPE in
carrying out its nationwide responsibilities, the project would finance equip-
ment as well as 180 staffmonths of specialist and consultant services and 6
staffmonths of fellowships. To ensure the timely start-up of the project with
a stronger DPE, effectiveness would be conditional upon signing of a decree
structuring and expanding the Directorate, and its staffing with qualified and
experienced personnel in sufficient numbers. A draft decree was reviewed
during negotiation and found satisfactory. Details on the technical assistance
recruitment procedures are given in paragraph 54. The following table gives a
summary of the specialist services and fellowship training inputs to be
provided to MINEDUC.
Sumrzy of Specialist Services and FellashiptipTralnrg
nirts for the Minzstry of Natiwal Fductikm Cm I)
(in staffmnths)
Prnmry and
Matemal     Tech. & Prof.    Fduwatigal   Fuwaticm
Fdration    Fdlcation      pannng       Projects
Directorate  Directorate    Divisi              ae
()DR        (DEIP)           am)         Om
Specialists     _a/         72             60             1
cciatants      13                          36            24
FetIn.shipis    -           102            103            6
Tlcal Seinars    -                         128 
aJ Discusasd in para. 41.
2.   Increasing the Relevance of the Vocational Training System
48.       Support for development of CENAFOP.  The project would support
the National Center for Adult Vocational Training (CENAFOP) (paras. 32-33),
helping it to: (a) make its training more relevant to the needs of local
industry and employers by improving the training staff's ability to ident-
ify new skill requirements and to translate them into appropriate courses;
(b) equip its new workshops; and (c) lead the development of a national
network of vocational training centers. This involves: (a) promoting a
closer participation of employers in the management of CENAFOP and in the
design and implementation of its programs; (b) assisting in the improvement
of existing vocational training centers and in creating new ones; (c)



- 16 -
proposing training programs for the trainers in other centers; and (d)
contributing to the development of norms and regulations for the vocational
training subsector. In addition to equipment, the project would finance
213 staffmonths of specialist and consultant services for staff training
and the development of training programs and methodology, and 128
staffmonths of fellowships for CENAFOP's staff development program (para.
33).
49.       Management of vocational training.  The project would provide
assistance to the Directorate of Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects
(DMOFP) in the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (MTPS) to strengthen
its planning capacity and the management of training resources. In order
to develop capabilities for assessing the country's skilled manpower needs,
formulating a comprehensive strategy for the subsector, and improving its
linkages with the labor market, the project would concentrate on three key
areas: (a) DMOFP's Manpower Sub-Directorate would be reorganized and
staffed to undertake manpower surveys and establish a permanent data base;
(b) the Vocational Training Sub-Directorate would be reinforced in the
areas of planning, curricula and staff development, institutional
management and performance evaluation; and (c) DMOFP would be reinforced to
support these activities and to initiate and supervise a series of
preinvestment studies, and to prepare and implement projects. The studies
would provide the rationale for the rehabilitation of existing CFPRs (para.
32) and the establishment of eight additional CFPRs, the development of an
apprenticeship system, and the creation and initial operation of an
autonomous Office of Manpower and Continuous Training, with a view to
eventually undertaking a free-standing vocational training project under
Bank financing.
50.       The project would finance 144 staffmonths of specialist and
consultant services to conduct on-the-job training for DMOFP staff,
organize surveys, and carry out preinvestment studies, as well as 137
staffmonths of fellowships for DMOFP staff. Furniture and equipment would
be provided. The table below gives a summary of the specialist services
and fellowship/training inputs to be provided for the MTPS component.
S&mrxy of Specialst Sendces and FeI=#bIp/Tra1n#g Inpts
for the MIistry of Labor and Social Wlfare OMES)
(in staffimoths)
National Ceoter for   MnpNer. Vocatitcal Trafiing
Adult Vocatimal Trainig   and Projects Directorate
(CmNAE)                    O E)
Spec2iaist             174                        9
Caisultant              39                        48
FellUcvhips            128                       137
51.       To equip DMOFP to play an expanded role, in 1985, Government
assigned full responsibility to the Directorate for implementing the MIPS
component and reinforced it by the creation of a Project Unit. Details on



- 17 -
the technical assistance recruitment procedures are given in paragraph 54.
A condition of loan effectiveness would be the appointment of a competent
local accountant for the financial section of the Project Unit.
B.  Project Cost and Financing Plan
52.       The total project cost (net of taxes and duties) is estimated at
US$61.2 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$32.6
million equivalent, or 53 percent of the total cost. Base cost estimates
are in end-1985 prices. Government intends to exempt the project from
taxes on construction, equipment and services; since the residual taxes
would be negligible, they have been excluded from cost calculations.
Government did not opt for cofinancing of the project. Therefore, the
proposed Bank loan of US$30.1 million equivalent would finance the
estimated foreign costs (except for recurrent expenditures). It would be
for 20 years, including a five-year grace period at the standard variable
rate. The Government would finance the remaining US$31.1 million
equivalent.
C.  Project Implementation
1.  Management and Institution Building
53.       Project management.  To facilitate administrattive and financial
procedures and to build up strong project monitoring and evaluation
capabilities, the MINEDUC component would be managed by the existing
Education Projects Directorate (DPE) (strengthened to cope with this
component's complexity), and the MTPS component would be managed by the
Directorate of Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects, also to be
strengthened.
54.       Institution building.  In order to build up a permanent national
capability in educational planning and management, the project features an
integrated staff development program, comprising 62.2 staffyears of
technical assistance, 39.6 staffyears of fellowships and 10.7 staffyears of
local seminars. Although large in absolute amounts, this program should be
viewed in relative terms: the technical assistance would be deployed
within six key institutions under two very large ministries and over a
five-year period. It is deemed to represent the critical mass necessary to
provide the institutional momentum required if the Government is to achieve
its ambitious but fully justified plans for the sector. The technical
assistance personnel would not substitute for local specialists; rather,
they would work in integrated teams headed by Cameroonians, acting as
catalysts in a process combining on-the-job and formal training, developing
methodologies and procedures. It is expected that by the end of project
implementation the institutions concerned could be largely self-reliant, as
a dynamic process will have been generated. At the same time, implement-
ation delays and cost overruns would be minimized, resulting in substantial
savings. To ensure that the technical assistance focuses on activities
fully in line with the project staff development objectives: (a) DPE and
DMOFP will submit to the Bank for its review and approval semi-annual
training programs for their respective components; and (b) the candidates



- 18 -
for the fellowship program will be approved by the Bank, and upon
successful completion of their studies will be employed for a minimum of
two years in the positions for vhich they have been trained.
55.       To create a synergy and ensure maximum impact from the start,
selection procedures for internationally recruited personnel, and detailed
arrangements for the fellowship program have been agreed. In order to
simplify and accelerate the process, a lm4ited number of consulting firms
were approached of the three; draft umbrella-contracts (one each for
MINEDUC, MTPS and CENAFOP) two have already been reviewed by the Bank and
found acceptable. A condition of loan effectiveness would be the
employment of these firms and the selection of candidates for the thiee key
posts, i.e a project manager for the Education Projects Directorate in
MINEDUC, one for the Directorate of Manpower, Vocational Training and
Projects in MTPS, and a specialist in methodology for CENAFOP.



- 19 -
2.   Procurement
56.        The procurement arrangeen8ts are summarized in the table below.
Amuts an! Mds of Prociuint
(US$ mlllS)
X0~~~~~~~M   d 1D
(Aim   i In parentuses fxdicaft amot of lE    rkie1i
t                                             IB              Othber          tal COAs
civil wnio                   19.6       ~     3.4 -            -               23.0
(5.9)           (1.0)            (-)              (6.9)
Ard2lftecturst Fees                                            0.7 C            0.7
(-)             (-)              (-)              (-)
*@d@-S09-ntase       ~12.2 #           3.0/             l.0v/           16.2
(9.8)           (2.4)            (0.8)           (13.0)
SpWsat Sevl                  --                               10.1            10.1
(-)             (-)              (8.5)            (8.5)
Traimidz                                                       1.8 h            1.8
-)     (-)              ~~~~~~(1.7)      (1.7
PCZent costs                                                   9.4 i/           9.4
TotlI CAts                   31.8              6.4            23.0             61.2
(15.7)           (3-.4)          Q&.              L&A
at   LviL works for the aee tge vauld be  oul th
I bt-l  ..i         *   ae (               wrd) gwrdl  to Icrd Ek    h .
b/   LIMmt LOM                                               amaam 1   d  dboeols s o  
mld be promwed thV00z IMAl C.pstite liMing I=CB) pM           W    A  m
actable to the Bsek, aim  it is  dmly that          b       t alzely In tbe cimtxy
wol b:d.
c/  Site               tly of          ys afrde in 198 ai  1984 after local
-~~~~~~dd    w* - part finm:d ui e ti sec)
d/ I  bssact with a value in  exs of M$10,000 ual  Ibe3 accoriiBng to
Woirld Bmk Qdddtnoe. QsFfyfyn  dsmcnt   s               ul od riva preernce in
bild emibntion,of 5   t or the hyxzt d,,  uFbdoejr i8s^
el  Catrats valed at betwnm  $50,00 a!nd1  000 wud be mw&d di mogla 1LB
fatmd acceptdble to the hlk, '4th a  i6$3 ud1Um* =aum.
f/_Xs   belaw i$,0 D in valse auuebeped  y                  ;wt qetcfrom at  inst
H    rmenllible sumi-e  sbeamm       n     olWm aU            S$IilwemnLV
aelI ab       2apps atbe nEuiad  Iimng the Qdde3lis for tbe
E s!  e Useof r-h*eltYms   aWo rts ldnu.
b/           abrsi (akot 39.7               ul) w=d be pzed follouuingt ti
1  mioy salaries asormdM  acquitd  twuig replr  Nervmemut pnxcmres.



- 20 -
57.       Bidding packages for civil works valued at more than US$1.0
million equivalent and bidding packages for goods valued at more than
US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review of the
procurement documents. This would result in the coverage of the three
major contracts of the 13 civil works contracts (about 85 percent of their
total value), and of about 75 percent of the total value of the contracts
for goods. Smaller packages would be subject to random post-reviews by the
Bank after contract award.
3.  Disbursements
58.       The proposed Bank loan is expected to be disbursed over a period
of seven years as follows:
Alo3aticn and Disxrmeint Categries for Bank lom
% of Estimsted Total
Padplents                              Cost to be Disbursed
Item           _M_EUC         MIPS       Total         from the Bank lDm
Civil Wbrks             6.3        -           6.3                30
Equip -t/9ZDirnluz      9.1        2.7        11.8                80
Sp~fiaIsct Servces     4.0         3.8         7.8                85
Training Abroad         0.7        0.9         1.6               100
lnallocated             1.9        0.7         2.6
Total          22.0         8.1        30.1                49
59.       All disbursements from the Bank Loan account would be fully
documented, except for contracts valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent,
for which expenses would be made against certified statements of expendi-
tures. Documentation would be retained for review by Bank supervision
missions and project auditors. In order to expedite disbursements. two
revolving funds, one for MINEDUC (US$0.3 million) and the other for MTPS
(US$0.2 million) would be establisbed ia Special Accounts to be opened in a
commercial bank authorized to deal in foreign transactions. They could be
used for all categories of expenditures. Detailed description of methods
to be used in making payment out of the Special Accounts have been agreed
upon. The Special Accounts would be replenished on a monthly basis, or
when reduced by a third, whichever comes first. They would be audited in
accordance with provisions of the Loan Agreement. No direct payment
applications for less than US$20,000 equivalent would be submitted to the
Bank. The disbursement profile has been estimated on the basis of the
general profile for Cameroon (IBRD and IDA), modified by the disbursement
profile of the Third Education Project.



- 21 -
4.   Recurrent Cost Implications
60.       The project's annua? incremental recurrent costs would amount to
about US$7.3 million (without contingencies), with the following main
items: (a) for the three primary teachers colleges, about US$0.3 million,
representing more than a doubling of non-salary recurrent costs to about 7
percent of total recurrent costs; there would be no other incremental
costs, since administrative and teaching staff would be transferred from
existing colleges; (b) for the secondary technical schools, about US$2
million for operation and maintenance of the new facilities and equipment
financed under the preject; this would represent a 3.5 percent increase
over the total 1983/84 recurrent budget for the technical secondary schools
network; and (c) for CENAFOP, about US$3.6 million to ensure proper
operation of the workshops and payment of additional salaries; this would
represent a 65 percent increase over the center's 1984/85 recurrent budget
and is largely attributable to expansion in progress outside the proposed
project. The remaining recurrent costs (US$1.4 million) would concern
maintenance and planning. Adequate provision has beaen included in the
Government's contribution to cover these costs.
5.   Auditing and Reporting
61.       For each component for which they are responsible, the Education
Projects Directorate (MINEDUC) and the Directorate of Manpower, Vocational
Training and Projects (MTPS) would maintain separate accounts for the Bank
loan and for the Government's counterpart financing. During negotiations,
the Government gave assurances that (a) all project accounts will be
audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) the Government
will submit the accounts and the auditors' reports to the Bank within six
months of the close of the Government's fiscal year; and (c) the reports of
the auditors will be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank might
reasonab'y request. Audit fees would be f4tanced by the Government. To
facilitate close monitoring of the prnject, the Education Projects
Directorate and the Directorate of Manpower, Vocational Training and
Projects would submit to the Bank, for each component for which they are
responsible: (a) semi-annual progress reports; and (b) within six months
of the Closing Date, a final report on the implementation experience and
project outcome.
D. Project Benefits and Risks
62.       Benefits.  The project is expected to produce both short- and
long-term benefits. By improving the quality of primary education,
secondary technical education and vocational training, it would help to
meet some of the most urgent needs for qualified manpower of an expanding
economy while raising the efficiency of existing institutions. It would
also contribute to increasing labor productivty.  For the longer term, the
project would strengthen the planning, policymaking and management
capabilities of the two ministries concerned. While an improved capacity
for management is expected to minimize the risk of project implementarion
delays and cost overruns, the strengthened planning capacity will help the
Government to tackle and prioritize education needs arising from high
population growth, rising student expectations, and more complex manpower



- 22 -
requirements of employers. This has become all the more critical as the
decline in Cameroon's oil revenues will be limiting the prospects for
additional resources for education and training.
63.       Risks.  The project has two major risks.  The first risk, in
light of past Bank Group experience in the sector, is that of implement-
ation difficulties resulting from weak institutions. To reduce this risk,
special attention has been given to strengthening the two directorates
charged with implementing the project; both would provide appropriate staff
and technical assistance to ensure the timely implementation of each
component. The technical assistance contracts already agreed upon would be
signed as a condition of loan effectiveness. To ensure that the technical
assistance creates a local capability, rather than substitutes for it, the
staff development program would be closely monitored. The second risk
concerns a potential for rapid deterioration of the new equipment for the
secondary technical schools which could result from insufficient
maintenance. This risk would be addressed through the operation of a
maintenance unit, recently created in MINEDUC, to initiate a maintenance
program and undertake a preinvestment study for the establishment of a
purchasing and maintenance system.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                                     Annex I
Page 1 of 8
T  B A L FA                                      PACE 
CANEROON              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHIRT
CAIVICON                           REFERENCE CRGMPS (MEICETD AVERAGES) to
NOST                    (HOST RECCNT ETHATE) /b
fECCCNT         NIDDLE INCONE          NIDDLE INCOME
1960/b     1970bk ESIMATEk       AFRJtCA S. OP sAHARA   N. AFRIC & NID EAST
aU (im1N        . MO
TOTAL                             475.4       475.4      415.6
AGRICLTURAL                       143.9       342.8       152.5
Qw PE CAWpIT  (W)                      ..          ..       620.0            1063.8                   1134.9
w   c <auom m cairn
(KILG0ANS OP OIL EQUIVALENT)       61.0        64.0      122.0             Se1.5                    623.9
PrULrIOu -M VITAL nmATSLa
POPUtATIONH,ID-TEAR (THOUSANDS)   5332.0     6506.0     9562.0
URBN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)       13.9        20.3       34.2              32.0                     49.1
POPULATION PROECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                          16.6
STATIONAT POPULATION (KILL)                             52.0
POPLIATION NIETUN                                        1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER sq. EN.                      11.2        13.7       20.1              65.1                     37.8
PER SQ. EM. AGE!. LAND           37.0        45.6       60.8             124.8                    470.1
POPUlATION AGE STRUCTURE (C)
0-14 IRS                        38.8        40.4       44.7              45.6                     43.5
15-64 YnS                        57.0        55.4       51.2              51.5                     53.0
65 AND ABOVE                      4.1         4.0        3.9               2.7                      3.3
POPULATION GROwTH RATE (S)
TOTAL                             1.5         2.0        3.0               2.9                      2.8
URBAN                             5.0         5.8        7.9               5.1                      6.4
CRUDE IRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        38.2        43.0       46.3              47.0                     40.0
CRUDE OATH RATE t(PE  TNUS)        21.2        18.5       15.0              15.0                     11.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.4         2.8        3.2               3.2                      2.8
FAMIU   PLANNING
ACCEPTOR  AINNAL (TKOUS)
USERS (2 OF HARILED WOmN)         ..          ..         3.0 Ic            6.6                     21.4
INDEt OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      69.0       101.0      100.0              82.9                    95.1
PER CAPIrA SUPPLY OF
CALORIS (2 OF REQUIREENTS)       94.0        97.0       87.0              98.5                    118.2
P801EINS (GRAMS PEE DAT)         51.0        54.0       48.0              55.4                     77.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       12.0        15.0       16.0 Id           16.5                     17.8
cHILD (AGES 1-4) DOATH RATE        38.2        29.8       19.0              16.6                     12.8
BTII
LIFE ExPEcr. AT BIRTH (YEARSS)      3.2        48.5       53.5              52.0                     57.8
INFANT iRTr RATE (PER THOUS)      156.5       143.0      116.0             108.8                    96.8
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (floP)
TOTAL                             ..          .         26.0 I.           42.4                     67.2
URBAN                             ..          ..        35.0 7;           67.5                     93.4
RURAL                             ..          ..        22.0 7;           35.8                     45.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
I OF POPULATIONi)
TOTAL                             ..          ..         ..               28.9                     45.9
URBAN                             ..           .         ..               57.7                     63.0
RURAL                             ..          ..         ..               20.7                     28.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        45230.0     28920.0    13990.0 /f        11791.7                   4313.0
POP. PER IURSING PERSON          3080.0 Ih.b  2610.0    195o.0 7          2459.8                   1845.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL DED
TOTAL                           500.0       560.0 /h   370.0 Id          981.1                    621.8
URBN                            48O.0 jg.   300.0 7T;   2OO.O 7;         368.8                    345.0
RURAL                           500.o7jji  650.0 7r    6i.T7;d          4371.9                   2511.3
*765SIONS PFER HOSPITAL BED         ..           .Z ..                       7.2                     25.7
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..          ..         5.2               ..
URBAN                             ..          ..          T17
RDRAL                             ..          ..         5.2 7r
AVERAGE NO. OF PClSONS/RDOtl
L                                 ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
PERCENTACE OF DWELLINGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..         6.7 /a
URBAN                             ..          ..        22.6 7;
RURAL                                                    0.5 7; -



- 24 -                                                      Annex I
Page 2 of 8
T A I L C 3A                                       PACE 2
CAEICION               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHECT
CAMEROON                             REFERENC GRPS (WEIGCITED AVERAGES) LA
MOST                     (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
REMT            MIDDLE iNCOmE           ItDDLE INCOM
3960Lk     197,/b!! tSSIIIArE/T    AFRICA S. OF SAHARA   N. AFRICA & MID EAST
ADJUSTED ENRtOLLME RATIOS
FRIMARY:  TOTAL                  65.0        91.0       107.0 /1           95.7                     89.8
MALE                  87.0       106.0       117.0-7            100.0                    101.7
FEMALE                43.0        77.0        97.0 7-           83.2                      75.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  2.0         8.0        19.0 /1           17.3                      42.9
MALE                   4.0        11.0        25.0 71           25.0                      50.9
FOEALE                  1.0        4.0        13.0 7?           14.8                      34.6
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECNDART)         23.0        22.8       26.8 Ai             5.9                      10.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           ..         46.0        52.0 11           41.1                      29.7
SECONDARY                         ..         21.0        25.07?            25.S                      18.8
CONSUPIN-
PASSENC  CARS/THOUSAND POP          1.8         5.1         9.0 /c           20.8                      17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND PFP        1.9        32.6        86.3             107.8                     175.9
TV RECEIVERS/T1H0USAND POP           ..         ..          ..               20.8                      51.2
NEISPAPEI ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CXRCLUATION
PER THOUSAND POPULAnOTI            1.3         2.6         3.8              18.4                      37.2
CINEIA ANNUAL ATIENDANCE/CAPITA     0.1         0.9 /       ..                0.4                       2.4
TOTAL LAOR FORCE (THwS)          2728.0      3165.0      4049.0
PFEMALE (PERCENT)                43.0        42.7       41.3               36.2                      11.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            87.0        85.0        83.0 /1           54.5                      42.4
NDUSmTR (PERCENT)                 5.0         6.0        7.0 7r            18.3                      Z7.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCEUi)
TIOTAL                           51.2        48.7       42.3               36.8                      26.2
MALE                             59.9        57.0        51.0              47.1                      46.2
FEMALE                           42.9        40.6        35.0              27.2                       5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCT RATIO           0.8         0.9         3.1               1.3                       1.8
uINC   DIS71E1UTIOU
PERCErN OF PRIVATE ISCIS
RECEIVED IY
HIGCEST 52 OF HOUSEHODS           ..
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEUDIS          .. .
LGEST 202 OF HOUhfOLDS            ..
LOuESr 40: OF HOUSENOLDS          ..
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBlN                             ..          ..        238.0 /c          590.7                    226.3
RtlRAL                            ..          .. . ..... . . 105.07W      275.3                     134.0
ESrIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (U5$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..          ..              545.6                    431.5
RURAL                             ..          ..         ..               201.1                    326.0
ESTIMATED POP. EELOS ABSOLUTE
POVMETY INCO1E LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                             ..          ..         15.0 /c
RURAL                             .. ..                 40.0 7              ..2.
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/s   The group averages for each indicator era population-weighted arithmetic mans. Coverage of countrie
amog the Indicators depnds on availability of data and La not uniform.
lb   Unlese otbenhime noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 end 1961: "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Mat Recent Estimtet" betwen 1981 and 1983.
/c  1978; /d 19?7; /e 1976; /f 1979; A  1962; /b Including ax-South Cmeroon under Britiab
admiciatration; T7  1980; fl 1972.
mNE. 1985



-25-                                                     Annex I
Page 3 of 8
DEFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notec Although the data are drawn from sounr  generaly judged the moat authoritative and reliable. it should also be noted that they may not be mntematmonally
comparable because of the lack of standardized definitiosm and concepts used by different countries in collecting the data. The data are, nonethess. useful to
describe orders of manitude. indicate trends. and characterize certin major differences between countries.
The reference groups are (I) the same country group of the subject country and (21 a country group with somewhat higher aeramge income than the counlry
group ofthc subject counttry (except or-High Incone Oil ExponerC group where 'Middle Income North Africa and Middle Ear" isosen becamse of stronger
socio-cultural affinities). In the refercenc group data the avcrn are population weighted arithmheic amans ror cach indicator and shown only when majonty
ofthe countries in a group has data ror that indicator. Since the coverae ofcountnes among the indiators depends on the availkbility of dat and is not uniform.
caution must be exercised in relating sverages of one indicator to another. ese averages are only useful in companng the value dronc indicator at a time among
the country and refernce groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                              Crude Birth Rote (per rhousand)-Number of live births in the year
Toral-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters:    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                          Crude Death Rate (per thousend)--Number of deaths tn the year
Agirkicural--Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand of mid-year populalion; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to   Gros Reprodtion Rate--Avcrage number ofdaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                               will bear in her normal reproductive period ir she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)--GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as World        Fauly Pluing-Acceprors. Anmal (thousands) - Annual num-
Ransk Atlasr 41981-83 basis); 1983 data.                            ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of nalional
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                      family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.         Farly Planning--Users (peremt ofninried womn n)- The perten-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro- nuclear and geothermal elec-     tage or married women of child-bearing age who are practiing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contracption. Women
1982 data                                                          ofchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                     groups.
Total Popuation. Mid- Year f1housandsi--As of July 1:1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 19813 data.
Urban Population (percent of total) - Rato oOf urban to total     *Indx of Food Productio PerCapia (I99-7lI)  Indexof'per
Urbanipdioffer erent definitiotal) -ORaiof urban area a ac tcompar-  capita annual production of all food commodities Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may afiet compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.         include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Popuion Projections                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2U00- The projection of population for 2000.    excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economv separately. Starting with information on      vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters     on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projecteJ at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized   1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                 PerCapittaSupplyofcCalories(prent ofrequieents)  Comput-
Stationa-v population- -Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
Inet reproduction rate = I). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also     food processing. and losses in distribution- Requiremens were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population    estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activitv
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. bodv weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 pereent for
rate to replacement level,                                          waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 19112 data
Population Momentum - Is the tendency for population growth to     Per Capita SupplyofProtein (gras per day)  Protein content ol
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per dav. Net supply of Food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year : is measured as    provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of v hich IH grams
the year T. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popularion Density                                                  average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-        Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                    Per Capita Protein Supply from Animal and Pidse--Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land- -Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                               1970 and 1977 data.
Populraion Age Strcture (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-      Cil (ages 1-4) Death Rate (per thsanQd) - Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
Popuation Growth Rate (percent)-toal-- -Annual growth rates of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. i960-70. and 1970-83.        HEALTH
Population Growth Rote (percent)---arha  - Annual growth rates      Lefe Expectancy at Birth (years)  Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.         infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



Annex I
-26-                                                  Page 4 of 8
at the time of or its birth were to stay thc same throughout its life;  Pup-reeacher Ratio - primary, and seondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary level divided by numbers of
nfawt Mortaly Rate (per thsuand)-Nuinber of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
befom reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
ACEss  Safe Water (pferet of popiditIo)-total. mhim  and       Pasener Cars (per thousand populatiw)-Passenger cars com-
rwal-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (inrcudes treated surface waters or  ances, hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  RAedo Receirs (per thousand popuAtion)-AIl types of receivers
boehor e spings and  nitary wells) as peracntagcs of their Iespecm  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  .xdudes un-licensed receiver in ountries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  reistration of radio ses was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas
rcasonablc access s wol._lytah hosewf or nxbsnot be comparable since most countrics abofished iccnsing.
reasonable ac cess wmuld imply that the housewife or members of the
housdhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVRecrs (per thasdp bx p liox)-TV reccivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water nceds                           to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
Access to Excrete Disposr (pffcewgr ofpepabdonit-4oetd, vrbm.  receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
and rura-Number of people (total. urban. and rural) seved by   in  ect.
cxcreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Nerwpaper CGcultian (per thousad popmlaun)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of 'daily general interest newspaper." dcfined as a
without treatment. of human exereta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording geal news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily' if it appars at least four times a week.
Pepsiain per PhysiPen-Pbpulation divided by number of prac-    Cinma AnMnu  Attendance per Capita per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level,  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Populan per Nursn Person-Population divided by number of       drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Populbao per Hosal &ed-Wo/, urban, and -ram-Population         Total Labor Force (thofnds)-Economically active persons. in-
(total. urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private, general and     students. etc.. coveTing population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals a    ablismmlt  various countries are not comparable. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanenty staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femak (percentl-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
howver. include bealth and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricaltre (percent)-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a linited range  data.
of medical facilties.                                         Indutry (percent)-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Admissions per Hospital Ned-Total number of admissions to or   facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
padoi Rate (percent)-t4oal, mae, andfema-Participation
HOUSING                                                       nor activity rates are computed as total, male. and fiemale labor force
Avera  Sie of Hoevhold (persos per househod)-total, uban.     as percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
andrural-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively, 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  paricipation rates reflecting age-sex structure ofthe population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Arage Number of Persons per Room-raal, wba, and rural-         Econou Dependecy Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number or persons per room in alt urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTiON
Prcentage of Dwlligs with Electricity-total, arba, and rad-    Percentage or Total Disposabl ino   (both in cash and kind) - -
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted Enroient Ratios                                     The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prbnary school - total male and femae-Gross total, male and   levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
fenale enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimaed Abslwe Poverty Income Level (USS per capta)-arban
respective primary school-a  populations. While many countries  and rura-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-1 1 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Reative Poverty Income Level (USS per capita)-arban
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rurl relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost or
Secondary school - total. mafe and femal-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years or approved pri-  Estmated Populfion Blow Absolute Poverty Income Level (per-
mary instruction; provides general, vocationaL or teacher training  cent)-urban and rur- Plrcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usuafly of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are -absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocation  Enrollmeni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industriaL or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             iune 1985



- 27 -
Economic Indicators I                           Annex  I
--  -------------------------------- -----    Pa~ge5 of  8
1979         1980    1981        1902       1993       1984
NA10NRAL ACLOUNIS
Ibillions current CFAF)
GOP at Market Prices                                 1410.2    1410.2    1796.5    2172.8    2618.0    3195.0
Gross Domestic Savings                                359. 1     359.1      439.1      541.1      751.4    1051.6
Gross National Savings                                250.1      323.4    357.9        467.0      640.0      925.0
Current Account balance                               -66.6      -91.3    -109.5       -11.1      -39.u       96.1
Exports GNFS                                          318.4      378.4      512.6      608.u      146.z    1014.2
Imports 6NFS                                          354.2      424.0      501.9      605.0      675.2      i91.5
tas % oD  GOP at market prices)
GDP at Market Prices                                  100.0      100.01    100.0       I I10 ui   100.01    100.06
Gross Domestic Savings                                 25.5%      25.5%      24.4%      z4.9%      28.1X      3Z.9%
Gross National Savings                                 22.9%      22.9%      21.1%      Z1.5%      24.5%      29.0i
Current Account Balance                                -5. 91     -5.8%      -e.0%      -3.3%      -1.51        3. i.
Exports GNFS                                           'b.8e      26.8i      z8.5%      zB.Bt      1Z.51      312.7
Imports 6NFS                                           31.3%      30.1:      31.3%      27.B      25.9%      24.89
Annual Real Rate oi Growth
60P at Market Prices                                    9.9        9.9       10.8        2.5        o.l        6.2
Gross Value Added by Sector
Ibillions current CFhFi
Agriculture x1nc. Livestock, etc.                     404.4      404.4      498.1      596.1      aoi.1       12.0
Mining                                                105.8      105.8      tO1.7      2o3.0      400.5      520.5
Manufacturinq                                         124.1      1c4.1      1j3.1      i47.0      iv.9       358.5
Construction                                           84.4       84.4      Iu3.;      125.u      145.0      l92.c
EIectricity, 8a5, Water                                16.8       la.b        1.5       f-.tZ      30.1       35. 
Transport and  Lommunication                           9i. 0      9.v       1ve03.6    119.3      128.8      141.3
lrade                                                 2u2.3      2u4.3      232.j      247.3      3it3./     414.9
Public Admnirsstration                                 99.8       99.8      1IV.3      15. i      17L.8      zlz4 e
Other Services                                        20lb.1      Oo.!      203.4      298.6    -385.5       438.2
Import Duties                                          i6.5      i1.5       1Ve.6      lla.4      146.8      Li.,
tas ' of total!
Agriculture inc. Livestock, etc.,             :         8         Lb.         ;f-zl     27.0U      2t  1.        0 z .ei
aining                                                  i.51 S      .         11 .;    I1 12.1%   12 ISo. .
Manutacturing                                           8.8%       tOt        9.7       11.41      11.1       i-l.i%
Construction                                            6.0%       b.o1       5.8%       5.8i       5.o        0i.9.
Electricity, bas, Hater                                 i.aZ       1.4%       1.u.'      I.U;       1.%       1.14
Iransport and Lomounication                              z.4!.     6.4'a      5.8.       5.5        4.4%       4.6o
Irdde                                                  i4.J%      4.3%      IZ.S%      11.5%      12.9%.     I3.i:Z
Public administratior                                   i ll       7.1%       o. 1       6.t%       6.6ol      o.r
Other Services                                         14.o%      i4.o%      14.4       13.4       !4.1.      13.9
lIport buties                                           5.4%       5.4%       5.7%       5.86       5.o%       5.4i



- 28 -
Annex I
Economic Indicators z                   Page  6 of  8
1990    1991       1982       1983         1984
SUMNARi GOVERNNENT FINANCE
(billions of current CFAF)
Current Receipts uincl. all oili#                               t30.a      447.0      536.9      706.0      717.1
Current Expenditure                                             151./      217.5      260.6      359.5     446.1
Current Surplus                                                  18.9      429.5      276.3      347.5      271.0
Capital Expenditure                                              73.2 z     26.2      233.7      24/.7      274.3
External Borrowing                                               3.1       45.0       32.3       20.3       31.1
las 1 of GDP)
Current Receipts                                                 16.4%      24.9%      14.7%      27.V%      z2.4L
Current Expenditure                                              10.9u 8i     lZ        1Z.02    13.11      14.U0'
Current Surplus                                                   5.b%     iU.8%       12.i1      13.3X       8.51
Capital Expenditure                                               5.2%      12.61      10.6%       9.Id       8.61
External Borrowinq                                                2.2%       2.5%       1.5%       0.82.      1.l.
HONEY, CREDII AND PRICES
tin millions CFAF, end of period)
Honey and Quasi-noney                                          M88391    3b2100    445600    4WM2u0    63z462
Bank Credit to bovernment                                       21149      2850ci    403        50ib/       57124
Bank Credit to Economy                                         3c1,4?    479400       0351t'    4&180    B01170
Government Deposits with Banks                                  73320    12e180    1537010   19543i    1406i6
ifercentages or Inde: Numnersi
Honey ard vuasi-noney as X GDP                                   .u.bx 51   zO.M5                li8.A       19. S
taounde LPI 1I9o&luuv                                         ;t.1 3ljt.e.          34b.i      393.e      45u.5
tinnual Percentaqe Lhanges)
iaounde LPI                                                        .          .       13.1i      1i.5Z      i4.4.
Bank Credit to Governoent                                        2o.4%      34.9.      41.;f.    25.?7        l.5Z
Bank Credit to Economy                                           Z1.4:      32.6oi     i5.9l     13.01        7.42
Government DepoEits with Banks                                   2t3:       2L.IL      L.8.      2i.tL    -2'.9.
Note:  tkeceipts include oil revenues transiered to budget and Coapte Hors Budget
WAZIj  1ILiuo!tS



29                                       ~~~~~~~~Annez  I
- 29-                                                    Page 7 of a
Economic Indicators 3
1979         1990    1991       1982       1983         1994
BALANCE OF PATYENTS
(in billion CFAF)
Exports of Sonds and VFS                             300.9      379.4      512.6      609.0      746.2    1014.2
Imports of Goads and NFS                             354.2      424.0      561.9      605.0      675.2      791.5
Resource Gap (deficit = -I                           -45.4      -45.6      -49.3        3.0       71.0      222.7
Payment Capital Services (net)                       -12.8      -27.1      -45.4      -57.0      -95.5    -110.0
Payment Libor Services (net)                          -1.7       -2.0       -5.8       -8.7      -10.0      -11.0
Transfers (net)                                       -6.7       -6.6       -8.0       -9.0       -5.1       -5.5
Current Account Balance                              -66.6      -81.3    -109.5       -71.7      -39.6       96.2
Short Term Capital mnetl                             -10.6       -9.0      -14.8       43.9       n.a        n.j
Foreign Direct Investment (net)                        9.6       14.2       29.2       29.2       n.a        n.a
Medium and Long Term Borrowing (net)                  35.9       49.6       94.6       50.2       n.j        n.a
Other Capital n.e.c. (net)                            -u.2       -0.6       -0.9       -3.2       n.a        n.j
Capital Account Balance                               34.9       54.2      108.1      120.1       n.a        n.a
Errors and Onissions                                  22.4       49.8      -25.9      -63.6       n.j        n.a
Overall Balance                                       -9.3       22.1      -26.2      -15.2       71.9      -51.4
gross International Reserves (at end FYI              19.9       44.7       19.4       12.6       79.4       29.5
1A23C 1210b195



- 30 -
Dopulation:     10 oillion 119II)              UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAUEROI                           ANIEX I
SiPper capita: US$100 11993)                     .m i=s             u                               Page 9 of 8
EWNUIIC INDICATORS
(Nlillions US$ at current prices)
CALENDAR YEARS
EXTERNAL PUBLIC MID PUBLiLY               1975    1976      1977    1978    1919    1990    1991        1992    1993    1994
GUARANTEED BORROWING AND DEBT ai
Gross disbursements
Official 6rants                         20       24      23       If       i1      n.a      n.a      n.a      nan.a
Concessiunal loans                      44.7    55.0   151.7   135.2   174.4   126.9   120.1    87.5    70.3    55.4
DC                                    16.9    31.6    6B.9    53.0    83.3    68.4    66.7    54.4    29.7    37.7
OPEC                                   6.0      3.2     13.4      5.7    20.2    23.6       2.1      0.6    13.2       7.3
IDA                                   15.9    17.9    20.7    19.3    19.6    19.1    32.1    32.3    12.7             7.6
Other                                  6.0      2.3    48.7    57.2    51.3    15.7    19.2          0.2    14.7       2.9
Non-concessioal loans                   91.4   123.2   192.1   184.3   347.6   446.7   212.6    113.0   120.4   126.3
Official export credits                0.7      9.0     19.3    11.8    74.6    85.0   102.3    31.9    39.9    36.3
IBRD                                  21.5      B.2     14.8    37.3    30.4    29.3    19.9    19.3    43.8    46.3
Other multilateral                     3.6      1.3      2.6    20.9    10.6    19.5    11.3    12.7          6.3    25.5
Private                               55.6   104.7    155.4   114.3   232.0   314.9    80.1    49.2    30.4    19.2
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed         371.7   513.3   861.3  1184.8   1684.7  2048.6  2036.3  1945.3  1826.2  1737.9
official                             292.5   345.3   537.5   753.6  1047.8  1218.0  1318.6  1351.1  1362.4  1365.1
of which:  lBRD                      49.7    57.5      71.6   102.4   129.6   152.2   167.3   191.7   217.5   252.8
IDA                       49.9    67.0    98.4   107.6   127.1   145.8   172.6   204.5   216.1   222.2
Private
Bkdisbursed debt                         322.3   531.7   561.9   795.6  14.3   591.4   559.1   697.9   674.3   706.6
Debt Service
Total service payments                  35.9    39.1    57.3   106.9   135.9   196.2   205.8   269.3   203.6   221.5
Interest                              15.1    18.8    28.2    43.4    61.3   104.1   116.8    123.5    92.8   106.9
Paysents as I of exports bh              5.3                       9.1               8.9      9.2    12.6       9.6      8.9
Average interest rate on new loans (X1     4.6                       6.9               6.1      b.6      9.2      9.0     4.9
official                               2.6                       4.4               5.0      5.3      9.3      9.0      4.1
Private                                9.2                       10.3             14.9      9.2      0.5    10.0       0.8
Average maturity of new loans (years)     25.2                      21.5              24.2    20.9    10.2    18.4    24.8
Official                              31.8                       28.9             26.1    26.4    19.0    18.5    28.5
Private                               10.1                       11.1              9.1      B..      5.0      3.6     7.2
As I of Debt Outstanding
at End of Host Recent
Year (1984)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                    35.9
Maturities due within 10 years                   60.4
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                   5.5
n/ In-period or end-of-period figures are showm
bi Export data on fiscal year basis
cl Rise in debt service ratio partly reflects decline in the value of the French Franc
vis-a-vis the US dollar which depresses Caaeromns export earnings expressed in US dollars.
WA2DC
February 16



Annex II
- 31 -                                    Page 1 of 2
1TE SAU  C BANK GRIP CPEATM
I THE REPLH    OF CER
A. SEAW   (F BNK UM  AND MDA 0EDDS (as of Septaber 30. 1985t
Ion or
Credit                                                            AmDzt (laes  canre_atlm)
Numer        Yea   Borrpoer    m      ,                                     DO    Irisburad
US$ uL11m
Twy-ti Credits and azteenm I            have been fully disbxs1    i82.42    215.28
1245T-4C     1976  Cann-am      Bduation m                       17.0                  1.39
673-Cl      1977  Camerom      Technical Assistanoe                         4.5       0.36
1494-W4      1977  Cameromon    Feeder Roads                      4.6                  2.14
776-0M      1978  Cameroon    Zapi Fast Integrmted
Agriculture                               8.5        1.05
1723-CM      1979  Canerocm     Highay IV'                       38.0                  6.10
1734-04      1979  RegLfercan  Railway IV                        27.0                 12.52
1753-0C      1979  Caurom       Second   er Supply               21.0                  8.87
1791-CM      1980  Cameroon    Hevecam I}                        16.5                  1.94
1010-M       1980  Canmroan    Livestock II                                16.0        8.39
1919-0C      1981  Camezo       Northern Province Rural
DeveLopient                    25.0                 17.38
1168QCM      1981  Cbmenoon    Technical. Cbqprticn II                     10.00 a/   6.44 bI
2D73--CK     1982  Comeromn    Pbst and Tlcruiai
Assistance                      7.5                  5.49
2092-0M      1982  Cameroon    Forestry                           7.0                  5.66
2160-CM      1982  Camrom       Oil. PaEW/Rbber Cnolidatimn    50.8                   40.34
2180D-C      1982  Camerom      HEWy V                           70.0                 41.30
2244-04      1983  Canexoo      Urban De olqaMEt                 20.0                 18.67
2259-aM      1983  NPAC         Third Douala Port                22.5                 16.94
2406-CM      1984  Camrorm      Western Province Rural           21.5                 21.45
Delo_net la
2485-CM      1985  Cameon    Third Hevecan Rubber                 8.3                  8.28
2567-01      1985  Caeroon    FSARfa                             25.5                 25.5
2584-CM cl   1985  Crmen        Sixth HWi-wy Project            125.0                125.0
lutL                                               689.62    254.28    375.21
of idch has been repaid                           48.62      8.55
LUt  ww n utstamling                               641.00    245.73
Amunt sold                  12.72
of  dich has been repaid  12.72              -         _
MAL r   held 4by Bk and MDA b/                     641.00    245.73
TUtL  TJNDIS;ED                                    358.96     16.25    375.21
Cl C    ted at the rate of the approval dates.
bi Begl  with Credit 1075-04, credits have been derad-  in Spedal Draing Rgbts. The
dDllar aszumts in these cohius reresent the dollar equialent at the dtie of crdt
negotiatims for the IDA awuxts axd the dollar equivalent as of Septenber 30, 1985, for the
uadisbursed    m
c/ 1bs siIged an Nowmber 19. 1985.
WA2CE / doc: stat bkgnupops can / disk: WA2CE2



Annex II
- 32 -                                    Page 2 ot
B. Smmwr  CF IF 1 Th      M4U  (as of Septwber 30, 1985)
Investmet      Fis,al
Nuber          Year        0i1OK            Type of &us1euss           lan         d      Total
311-C4          1975        BATA            Shoe Factory                  -       0.13    0.13
355-CK          1977        SAFACAM I       Rubber Plantatic              -       0.81     0.81
43D-W           1979        SAFACAPM II     Rubber Plantam                -        0.41    0.41
452-0!          1979        ALUCAM           Nor-Ferrous Metal           7.00      0.93    7.93
551-0C          1981        sw              Food & Food Promessig        1.12      0.19    1.31
578-CQ          1981        SOCAVEPR        Gl   Bottle Factory           -       0.12    0.12
579-Cl          1981        SAFACM III      Rubber Plentatim              -       0.17    0.17
633-01          1982        SOSUCAH4        Food & Food Processng        1.50      -       1.50
681-Cl          1984        SAPICAM         Food & Food Processing       0.87      0.34    1.21
1985 a/    SPFS             Food & Food Processing      1.62      0.56    2.18
IUEAL gross cmmitmnits                                                  12.11      3.66   15.77
Less caxc1.iatix=, temdmtinns  repaynmts and sles                     -4.52      0.34    4.86
7UIAL cammwtts now held by 1I:                                           7.59      3.32    10.91
'fL UNDOTURSED                                                           1.62     0.56    2.18
a/ In aditim, a Food and Food Processn  invesflhnt in SPFS,
tDtcaUlig   $2.18 millimn, las approwed in ,uist 1984 but
has not ben sid yet.
1A2CE / doc: stat bUgpops cam J disk: MM2CE2



- 33 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Cameroon
Educational and Vocational Training Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I.     Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 9 months.
(b)  Project prepared by: Government with assistance from UNESCO/Bank
Cooperative Program.
(c) Date of first Bank mission to consider the Project: June 1980.
(d) Date of appraisal mission: May 1984.
(e) Date of post-appraisal mfssion: November 1984.
(f) Date of negotiations: January 1986.
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1986.
Section II.    Special Bank Implementation Action:
(None).
Section III.   Special Conditions:
1.        During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a) it will review with the Bank the study on the cost-efficiency of
primary teacher training, and will begin implementing the agreed
upon proposals when the three ENTAs open (para. 40);
(b) it will prepare and submit to the Bank an annual report on the
status of the primary teacher development program being financed
by USAID to serve as a basis for exchanges of views, leading to
an agreement on the new programs by PY3 and their implementation
in the Bank-financed facilities within 12 months thereafter
(para. 41);
(c) the Education Projects Directorate and the Directorate of
Manpower, Vocational Training and Projects will submit to the
Bank for its review and approval semi-annual training programs
for their respective components; and the candidates for the
fellowship program will be approved by the Bank, and upon
successful completion of their studies they will be employed for
a minimum of two years in the positions for which they have been
trained (para. 53);
(d)  all project accounts will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; the accounts and the auditors'
reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the
close of the Government's fiscal year; and the reports of the
auditors will be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
might reasonably request (para. 60); and



- 34 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
2.        Special Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that the
Government has: (a) employed the specialized consulting firms or agencies
to provide assistance to DPE, DMOFP and CENAFOP, and selected the
candidates for the posts of project management specialists in DPE and
DMOFP, and specialist in methodology for CENAFOP (para. 54); (b) appointed
a competent local accountant for DMOFP (para 50) and four local specialists
for the maintenance unit in MINEDUC (para. 45); and (c) taken all necessary
measures to structure and staff its DPE to allow it to carry expanded
responsibilities (para. 46).
WA2DC
February 1986.



MNAIJ                      .' |                                                                 a   '   
AMEROO                                                                           C N    I  G    E    R    I
--                         N   IDE,          Ri   A                                 !NiNS  \   t.1  T  \C    H  A   D
CAMERO CAMEROUN.  -                                                                   NA
PR AJE7 ucAr            ErFORNAOONNPROFESSIONNELLE                                                     2 
LOCATIONOF PR6TCAMRONNTS                                                     /      N        '
P/atr 0CM srio/LI    oYoarsoPo} El P0/il  7O PRDESSO_IEL
LOCALIOAIONDEOCOMPAAAOTOOGAAAAJ
A      Th~Z4~Lonopoio        -W.W
IF       grlaV   /h eN;enN,IMiNGhnOAE  LyM WOO l--OA
   EAOPIOP,ErET/eBlWojEGIsvOOnA.A,OAg I ,n                     t        1                  00,
OLI /on RUa   NAAORAAEORAOIoo1                                          1    ''ANNLA
.. m-JJ..... g,w 
NEIIO-E C-.ME ForUUI Ad G:GIITENI
IIPEE N--        OSE U.a  1n       NO T0  IN EN IA  0 RN                      ANAIUN>L \ 
_'  GEGEIO,IEO                 9            L AO   -S  MS iO INN
.  R _.IIEIEOAOIEO bKdINE                        2(        x        _, 
ORN
N  I G  E R  I A ii  bmt f_  ,r1 
*   LolEool ocl000
_E    IlVXOI    A              NGER
N G        \n            /j                          i F   'I                              -
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ jN T R_$6l A  L e  ,
N I GEOEAIINRNI              A       /dE)~  MXq        J   ;   M.t=b t9 AG    5   NF ,rJ                                            AN
GUNEAN
i JX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pe rOD PX L E   N S  
PoUEP ; ;
l,   E . N /   GAOl GAO AdA, 60MlO                                                                          \
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                       EANiVEO ..   f          I; ____Q '  Io,_RN ~a,E L0 O z '   y A   I   A
a     ~             ~             ~            ~~ -  Eo(N                           P E Ol 1  1  E ENNOENEE t    {
.                  j~~EOUAT,ORIAL,UINEA  j                          9   BgN     )                    T HE  C O NG O\\II
i j               tw}~~~AGEINRIAAAGA l/           5,      rEP    Of                                                              \|



i
I
I



