Report No. 1354a-KO                                                          FILE  COPY
Korea: Appraisal of
Second Port Project
March 25, 1977
East Asia and Pacific Department
Transportation Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENT EQUIVALENT
Current Unit      =        Won
US$1              =        Won 485
Won 100           =        US$0.21
Won 1,000,000     =        US$2,062
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)      2                3.28 feet (ft)        2
1 square meter (! )      =        10.76 square feet (f5)
1 cubic meter (m )       =        35.29 cubic feet (ft )
1 kilometer (km)      2  =         0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) =         0.39 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)           =         2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)     =         1,000 kilograms (kg)
or 2,240 pounds (lb)
1 revenue ton            =         on average approximately
600 kg or 1322.4 lb
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     -     Asian Development Bank
BDMPA   -     Busan District Maritime and Port Authority
dwt     -     deadweight tons
EPB     -     Economic Planning Board
GNP     -     Gross National Product
GRT     -     Gross Registered Tonnage
KAL     -     Korean Airlines
KIST    -     Korean Institute of Science and Technology
KMPA    -     Korea Maritime and Port Authority
KNR     -     Korean National Railroad
KPDS    -     Korea Port Development Study
LWOST   -     Low Water Ordinary Spring Tides
MOC     -     Ministry of Construction
MOF     -     Ministry of Finance
MOT     -     Ministry of Transportation
TCMC    -     Transport Coordination Minister's Conference
TCO     -     Transport Coordination Office
TOC     -     terminal operating company
TPO     -     Transport Planning Office
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -   December 31
N.B. All water depths given in this report are below LWOST.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...........  ............................... i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  . ................ ...... ................. * 1
II.    BACKGROUND ....................................             ... .o.... o  2
Ao  Economic Setting  ... o ..... .... . .    ..... .    ............  2
B.  Transport Sector .............  ...  ...... o.                 ....   3
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination   ......o  5
III.    PORT FACILITIES,  ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS    ...........   6
A.   Facili-ties, Existing and Under Construction .....o  6
B.  Organization ........   00- ..... ..0..............................    6
C.   Finances  .o .......         ......          oo..o..o  .......   7
D.   Cargo Handling Operations  ...o .......o ..................           8
IV.    THE PROJECT ........          . ................. oo........   9
A.   The Capital Investment Program ...9oo                ............   9
B.   The Project  ................ .             .      ... ........  9
C.   Project Execution  . ..... .. .... o..... 0.        .  ... ......  11
D.   Consulting Services  .% ........ oo.. oo.oo   ....... ....  11
E.   Procurement and Disbursement   .o ...  ..             .........  11
F.  Ecology               .....    ..... .o...o...o..o*... o 12
V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION .o...o..  ... oo. oo..   ...o...o ........ o 12
A. General ........................ 12
B.  Landward Port Access ,.     ...   ....   ..o.o..            ...... .  13
C.   Traffic Forecast  ... .....  .         o.'..o.o.o..... . .......... ..  13
D.   Project Benefits and Risks  ....o ...... ............   14
E.   Economic Return,  Sensitivity Analysis and Risks  ...  16
VI.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION  ............   ooo.oo...o ... o ...... 16
A.  General ......oo.o.o..        o... oo... ......-..-.-..-..-  16
B. KMPA's Accounting and Costing Systems,
Rates and Charges ... ..             .................*. 17
C.   KMPA's Asset Values and Depreciation .....  o    ......  17
This report has been prepared by Messrs. F. Gyi (engineer), R.H. Roberts
(economist), and K.C. Rodley (financial analyst).
This document hau a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents mAY not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Authorization.



-2-
Page No.
D.  BDMPA's Receivables, Payables and Stores ............ 18
E.  Financial Staffing    ................ .................. 18
F.  BDMPA's Past and Current Earnings and
Current Financial Position .....    ................... 18
G.  Establishment of Terminal Operating Companies   ....... 19
H.  BDMPA's Future Earnings and Finances ..      .............. 19
I.  BDMPA's Cash Position and Financial Plan ............ 20
J.  Auditing and Insurance        .............................. 21
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED ANID RECOMMENDATION ... 21
ANNEXES
1.  Technical Assistance and Training Program
2.   Busan - Port Facilities Following Completion
of First Port Project
3.  The Government Budget System
4.  KMPA Pro-forma Special Account
5.  Terminal Operating Company (TOC) Contract
6.   Project Details
7.  Traffic Forecast
8.   Valuation of Existing Assets
9.  Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
TABLES
1.  Busan Port Capital Investment Program 1976-82
2.  Detailed Project Cost Estimates
3.  Proposed Grouping of Contracts
4.  Annual Estimated Project Expenditure
5.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
6.   Busan Port Traffic - 1973-82
7.  Economic Costs and Benefits
8.  Port of Busan - Cash Revenue and Expenditure 1973-75
9.  Port of Busan - Profit and Loss Account 1975-82
10.   Port of Busan - Balance Sheet at December 31, 1975-82
11.   Port of Busan - Cash flows for the Years 1975-82
12.   Summary Cash Flow Data; Financial Plan 1975-82
CHARTS
16510 - Design and Construction Schedule
16452 - Korea Maritime and Port Authority Organization Chart
MAPS
11700R - Transportation Network
10382R3 - Second Port Project - Busan Harbor
12506   - Second Port Project - Container Pier Extension



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Freight traffic through Korean ports has increased from about 11
million tons in 1965 to about 70 million tons in 1975. This over six fold
increase resulted in serious port capacity problems, particularly at Busan,
the largest port, which handles 20% of the country's external trade and is
chronically congested. The large and fast-growing external trade of south-
east Korea moves largely through the port of Busan, which also handles a
substantial volume of containerized goods moving to and from the Seoul area.
ii.       The Government has requested the Bank to finance a project for
the further development of Busan port, consisting of a 700 m extension of
the container wharf being financed under Loan 917-KO. The proposed project,
which will meet traffic requirements until about 1985, is based on the Korea
Port Development Study-Phase II (KPDS-II) financed under Loan 917-KO and
undertaken by consultants (Trans Asia Engineering and King & Gavaris in
association with Arthur D. Little - US). The proposed project would also
provide container handling equipment, including four container cranes, to-
gether with related buildings and services and two tugs. Rehabilitation of
two existing piers and two wharves would also be included. Substantial
technical assistance would be provided, covering cargo handling operations,
maintenance of facilities and container handling equipment, port planning
and accounting.
iii.      The Korea Maritime and Port Authority (KMPA) was set up in March
1976, in accordance with the requirements of Loan 917-KO 1/, and key appoint-
ments were made soon after. While KMPA is operating satisfactorily and the
organizational structure is generally acceptable, the project proposes a
strengthening of its staffing, particularly in the accounting field, and a
reorganization of cargo handling operations to reduce the number of cargo
handling companies to one at each pier or specialized bulk-handling facility,
with KMPA staff assuming a more active supervisory responsibility for cargo
operations; improved procedures will be adopted to facilitate cargo movements
within the Customs area. The financial autonomy with which the Government was
required, under Loan 917-KO, to vest KMPA, has not yet been achieved because
of the constraints of the Law under which KMPA was established.  The Govern-
ment has agreed to amend the Law so as materially to increase KMPA's financial
autonomy.
1/   The Loan Agreement required the Government to set up the Korea Port
Authority; however, the Government decided, with the Bank's agree-
ment, to include in the Authority's functions supervision of maritime
affairs. The Authority's title was changed accordingly to the Korea
Maritime and Port Authority.



- ii -
iv.       The proposed project is estimated to cost US$112 million, and the
proposed loan would cover US$67 million equivalent of the foreign exchange
component. The Government would finance the remaining US$3 million of the
foreign exchange component, and local currency costs, estimated to be about
US$42 million.
v.        The project would be executed by KMPA, with consultant assistance,
under three civil engineering contracts and two procurement contracts, which
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. A 15%
preference for local manufacturers would be granted in respect of mechanical
equipment and floating craft. Construction could start early in 1978 and
would be completed by the end of 1981.
vi.       The proposed project would avoid the constraints on economic growth
which a shortage of port capacity in Busan port would impose on south east
Korea. It would also reduce transport costs by: (a) avoiding ship waiting
time; (b) eliminating transfer of about 30% of containers to and from container
yards outside the port; and (c) avoiding the need to route Seoul container
traffic through Incheon at extra cost. These benefits yield a return of about
17% on the proposed project, which is the least cost way of meeting the fore-
cast traffic growth.
vii.      Congestion in city streets surrounding the port is likely to result
in steadily increasing transport costs on all goods moving in and out of the
port and, ultimately, could limit the port's capacity unless measures are
taken to improve the city's road network. The Government will construct, by
December 31, 1979, a road from the port area to the Seoul/Busan expressway
which will eliminate any congestion affecting traffic moving between the port
and the Seoul area, and should help to relieve congestion in the city center.
The Government will also undertake a study of city-wide transport and land use
which will seek medium-term solutions to the city's congestion and assess their
feasibility.
viii.     Busan port's present financial position is satisfactory and will
remain so, subject to tariff increases, which have been assumed in the finan-
cial projections, as follows: (a) overall increases of 15% on July 1, 1978,
and 20% on July 1, 1981; (b) imposition, effective in 1978, of a charge to the
cargo-handling companies for their use of port assets.
ix.       The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$67 million equivalent to the Government of Korea for a term of 17 years,
including a grace period of 3-1/2 years. KMPA would assume a debt to the Gov-
ernment in the same amount and on similar terms on January 1, 1979, following
the necessary legislative changes.



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea (the Government) has asked
the Bank to help in financing a second port project at the port of Busan con-
sisting of a 700 m extension of the container pier being provided under Loan
917-KO, together with rehabilitation of some existing piers and wharves, pro-
curement of container handling equipment and floating craft, and provision of
consultant services for detailed engineering and technical assistance. The
proposed project would meet anticipated traffic growth at the port through
about 1985 in the most economic manner. It forms part of the Government's
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan 1977-81, and is based on a study, Korea
Port Development Study-Phase II (KPDS-II), prepared by c'nsultants (Trans Asia
Engineering and King & Gavaris in association with Arthur D. Little - US) and
financed under Loan 917-KO.
1.02      The Bank Group's previous assistance in financing the transport
sector has amounted to US$491 million, and includes one previous port project,
Loan 917-KO in 1973 (US$80 million); three highway projects, Loan 769-KO in
1971 (US$54.5 million), Loan 956-KO in 1974 (US$47 million) and Loan 1203-KO
in 1976 (US$90 million); and five railway projects, Credit 25-Ko in 1962
(US$14 million); Credit 110-KO in 1967 (US$10.7 million); Loan 669-KO/Credit
183-KO in 1970 (US$55 million); Loan 863-KO in 1972 (US$40 million); and Loan
1101-KO in 1975 (US$100 million). Performance on these projects has been
generally satisfactory. In addition, a further railway project is expected
to be appraised in April 1977.
1.03      Construction of the First Port Project is proceeding satisfactorily
and it is expected to be completed on schedule in mid-1978. However, follow-
ing the oil price increases of 1973-74 the project has experienced serious
cost overruns. The total project cost is now expected to be US$42 million
(35%) higher than estimated at the time of project appraisal, including about
US$27 million foreign exchange. The Government signed a Loan Agreement, on
March 8, 1976, with the Saudi Fund for Development, which will provide up to
US$35 million equivalent towards the foreign exchange cost overrun. As re-
quired by the conditions of Loan 917-KO, the Government established, in March
1976, the Korea Maritime and Port Authority (KMPA) and, at the same time, set
up port administrative units at all first-class ports, including the project
ports. The degree of financial autonomy which was to have been granted to
KMPA upon its establishment will be granted by January 1, 1979, following the
necessary legislative changes.
1.04      This report is based on the consultants' report, data supplied by
the Government and the findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs.
F. Gyi (engineer), R. Roberts (economist), J. Cuthbertson (consultant, finan-
cial analyst), and J. Cracknell (consultant, traffic engineer) which visited
Korea in May, 1976.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Korea's economy has maintained an average annual real growth of
GNP of around 10% p.a. over the past fifteen years, including an impressive
annual real increase of 11% over the Third Five-Year Plan period (1972-76).
Per capita income which was around US$100 in 1962 has increased to nearly
US$700, in current prices, by 1976, or nearly a three-fold increase over
the period. During the past three Five-Year Plan periods the growth of the
economy accelerated from 9% during the 1963-66 to 10.54-in 1967-71. The
performance of the economy over the last three years of the Third Plan was
particularly impressive in view of the recent world-wide recession which
affected Korea's trade.  The sustained high rate of growth over the fifteen-
year period has transformed Korea from one of the poorest developing countries
to a semi-industrialized, middle-income country with a significant industrial
base that provides the main thrust of the economy's high growth performance.
2.02      The most striking feature of Korea's rapid economic growth has been
the rapid expansion of exports from less than US$200 million in 1965 to nearly
US$8 billion, an annual real expansion of over 33%.  Industrial expansion re-
sulted in a structural transformation of the economy as the share of agricul-
ture declined over the 1961-76 period from about 44% to 20%, while the share
of manufacturing increased from less than 11% to 35%, with value added in
manufacturing growing at 19% annually in real terms. The social overhead
sectors have kept up with the manufacturing sector, growing at about 15%
per annum. Fixed investment increased from 11% of GNP in 1960 to more than
20% of GNP by the mid 1960's and has since been about 23% to 26% of GNP.
2.03      Over the past year, the Korean economy appeared to have fully re-
covered from the 1974/75 twin shocks of high import costs and depressed de-
mand for manufactured exports in the major importing countrie3. GNP grew
at 15.2% in 1976 compared with the average rate of 8.5% in the previous
two years. While employment levels declined somewhat during the 1974-75
recession, Government holding policies prevented a rapid decline in employ-
ment through various financial incentives to enterprises to carry inventory
and maintain a high level of production. This enabled Korean exporters to
take advantage of the recovery in the export markets that occurred in the
latter half of 1975. Inflation has been reduced in the process of high
growth. In 1976 wholesale prices were only about 9% higher than their 1975
levels compared with increases of 42% and 26% in 1974 and 1975. The devalua-
tion of the Won and the various price rationalization measures adopted in
1975 enabled domestic prices to adjust to the new international price levels.
Other policy measures included a reduction in the rate of increase of money
supply and a stricter price monitoring for major commodities. There has also
been a sharp reduction in the balance of payments current account deficit
from nearly US$2 billion in 1974-75 to less than US$300 million in 1976, and
this lays a firm foundation for the Government's efforts to reduce foreign
borrowing during the Fourth Five-Year Plan. The plan envisages an annual
growth of GNP of 9.2% with exports and imports expanding at 16% and 12%,



- 3 -
respectively, in real terms. The Plan investment is set at Won 18 trillion
in 1975 prices or 26.2% of GNP. Total investment allocation for the trans-
port sector is Won 2.78 trillion including about Won 250 billion for Ports.
While the Plan's targets are achievable, the resource requirements have been
somewhat under-estimated. Additional domestic and foreign resource mobiliza-
tion efforts will therefore be required if the Plan's target growth rate is
to be realized.
B.   Transport Sector
Recent Developments
2.04      The transport sector, measured in terms of value added, grew faster
than the economy during the past decade and registered an average growth rate
of about 16% p.a., compared to just over 10% p.a., for the GNP. The share of
transport in the GNP increased to 5.1% in 1974 and over the same period the
share of investment devoted to transport grew to 21% of the total capital
formation.
2.05      The rapid expansion of transport demand has imposed a severe strain
on the transport infrastructure which up to about 1966 had not been modernized,
except for some improvements to the railways. The resulting shortage of capa-
city caused bottlenecks which have required a massive reorientation of the
transport development strategy within the last 10 years, but there are still
deficiencies particularly in the highway network. Investments for transport
and storage represented about 16% of the Third Plan (1972-76) and will be
about 15% of the Fourth Plan (1977-81). However, total investments will rise
rapidly and the constant value of transport investment will increase by about
50%. The allocation for railways and roads in the Fourth Plan will form 58%
of total transport investment. The allocation for ports and shipping will be
36%, compared with 28% in the Third Plan, an increase which reflects Korea's
emphasis on exports and expansion of its merchant marine.
2.06      As a result of the development of the highway network since 1968,
rail/road competition has grown keener, particularly for passenger transport
for which highway transport during the last decade progressively increased
its share to nearly 75% of all pass-km. Also, the railway is meeting strong
competition from trucks for short and medium distance freight traffic because
of the flexibility of service and increasing trans-shipment costs from rail
to trucks to reach the final destination, Undoubtedly, the virtual monopoly
enjoyed by the railway only a decade ago has now ended, and the transport
system is evolving through competition toward a more balanced multi-modal
pattern where the different modes will complement each other.
Highways
2.07      The present highway system is still inadequate to cope with the
rapid growth of road transport, despite the Government's effort since 1968
to catch up with the backlog of necessary road improvements. Only about one-
half of national highways and less than 20% of other roads are paved. This
situation will require a continued high level of investment.



-4-
Railways
2.08      Korean National Railroad (KNR) at the end of 1973 operated 3,068
route-km of standard gauge, of which 529 km are double track. Electrification
of some 321 km of industrial lines from Seoul to the northeast coast (carry-
ing mostly mineral traffic) was completed in October 1975. Also about 100 km
of suburban lines have been electrified, and a subway in the Seoul area was
opened in 1974.
2.09      The railway is expected to retain its share (nearly 80%) of bulk
commodity movements in line with its operational improvements and additional
rolling stock. Continued competition from other modes is expected for general
freight traffic and for passenger traffic. The railway is likely to retain a
significant amount of such traffic, but tariff adjustments will be required to
effect a major improvement in its finances.
Ports and Shipping
2.10      Freight traffic through the ports has increased from about 11 mil-
lion tons in 1965 to about 70 million tons in 1975. This sharp increase
resulted in serious port capacity problems, particularly at Busan, the largest
port, which handles 20% of the country's external trade and is chronically
congested. Incheon, the nearest port to Seoul, is being expanded, with the
assistance of the Asian Development Bank (ADB), through the addition of twenty
deep-water berths, including five container berths. The project has been in
partial operation since 1974, although two berths, the breakwaters and some
ancillary works will not be completed until 1977. However, the facilities are
substantially underutilized and are expected to remain so for many years be-
cause transport costs to and from the Seoul area are higher via Incheon than
via Busan. The port suffers from the inherent disadvantage of a very high
tidal variation, necessitating entrance locks which result in delays to ship-
ping. Additional investment in container handling equipment, including cranes,
will be required as the volume of containers increases.
2.11      In addition to the ongoing Bank-financed project, at Mugho 1/ and
Busan (Loan 917-KO), the Government began, in 1975, construction of major
port facilities, costing about US$200 million, at Bugpyeong, Pohang, and
Onsan on the east coast, and at Samil on the south coast (Map 11700R). These
facilities were designed and are being constructed by the Ministry of Con-
struction (MOC) as integral parts of the site preparation and infrastructure
for a number of industrial plants: Bugpyeong will handle bulk cement; Pohang's
new harbor, inbound iron ore, coal, limestone and scrap steel, and outbound
steel products from the expanded Pohang steel mill; Onsan, inbound petroleum
products and raw materials for the non-ferrous metals smelters, and outbound
products from these plants; Samil, imports of raw materials for, and outbound
products from, a fertilizer plant and petrochemical complex. None of these
port projects was included in the recommendations of the Korea Port Develop-
ment Study - Phase I (KPDS-I) and therefore, according to the Loan Agreement
1/   Previously spelled Mukho.



of Loan 917-KO (Section 3.11), they required the Bank's prior agreement. The
Government, however, did not seek the Bank's agreement before starting the
projects in the belief that industrial ports were not covered by the covenant.
The Bank has drawn the Government's attention to this breach of the covenant;
however, it should be recognized that the economic justification for such
"industrial" ports largely depends on the economic justification for the
associated industrial facilities, a difficult matter for the Bank to pursue.
The Government intends to establish an Inter-Ministerial Committee to review
industrial port development proposals (para 3.06).
2.12      Korea's share in the merchant shipping serving its external trade
has been increasing and it is estimated that, in 1976, about 38% of the
country's total foreign trade tonnage was carried by Korean vessels. The
important role of coastal shipping is largely due to the country's geography
and the Government's development of industrial complexes at Pohang, Ulsan and
other coastal sites and to the existing shortage of rail and road capacity.
Aviation
2.13      Domestic passenger traffic carried by air is growing rapidly, but
still amounts to only about 1% of the total. Domestic air freight traffic
is negligible. Domestic routes are served by the privately-owned Korean
Airlines (KAL), which also operates a number of international flights. There
are international airports at Seoul and Busan, and at Jeju island, a major
tourist center.
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination
2.14      In spite of the efforts of the Government since 1970 to create insti-
tutions to improve transport planning, the investment decision-making process
is still uncoordinated and dispersed among different Government agencies. The
Economic Planning Board (EPB), is the central agency which is intended to pro-
vide a comprehensive overview of investment in all sectors. However, it has
not been able to formulate an investment policy for the whole transport sector.
Nor has it had the capability to review transport investment proposals by line
agencies, and to assess the merits of alternative solutions in meeting the
Government's objectives. However, EPB is establishing a mechanism for de-
tailed review of major investments by all agencies of Government with a view
to increasing its capability for analysis of transport investments.
2.15      The transport coordination function was reorganized in late 1975; the
old Transport Planning Office of the Ministry of Transportation (MOT) was
renamed the Transport Coordination Office (TCO) and has assumed responsibility
for economic regulation of transport, particularly with regard to pricing and
entry. A recent Bank sector mission has reviewed transport coordination and
will make recommendations for the strengthening of this function.
2.16      Over-investment in port facilities, such as that at Incheon, reflects
the present lack of port planning and the fact that project designs are fre-
quently not based on careful analysis and projection of port operational



-6-
statistics. Furthermore, MOC is not responsible for operating the port facil-
ities which it constructed. The establishment in March, 1976, of the KMPA, to
plan and administer Korean ports should assist substantially in alleviating
this problem. However, KMPA lacks staff with planning experience and, there-
fore, appropriate training is proposed (para 4.02 (e) and Annex 1).
III. PORT FACILITIES, ORGAN4IZATION AND OPERATIONS
A.   Facilities, Existing and Under Construction (Map 10382R3)
3.01      The port of Busan has a natural harbor, further protected by break-
waters, the northern section of which handles commercial shipping, while South
Harbor handles fishing vessels and other small craft. The entrance channel has
12 m (40,000 dwt ships) water depth and is being deepened to 13.5 m (60,000
dwt) as part of the ongoing bank-financed First Port Project (Loan 917-KO).
Maximum tidal range is 1.2 m.
3.02      Berthing facilities currently consist of about 4,100 m available at
four finger piers, and at a central wharf; the south side of pier 3 and part
of the central wharf are used for military cargo. Oil traffic is handled in
the outer harbor, while 95% of the timber imports are unloaded in the stream.
There are about 3,000 m of lighterage wharf and 24 ship anchorages with 5 m
to 13 m depth. Adequate privately owned lighters are available; the port
has four ship-handling tugs. Containers are handled with ships' own gear,
and with a recently installed container crane on the north side of Pier 3,
directly onto semi-trailers, because there is no space for stacking them at
the pier. Ample transit shed and open storage space is available but needs
modernizing, and lighting and water supply are inadequate at present, although
improvements are being made under Loan 917-KO. Mechanical equipment for hand-
ling general cargo is largely privately owned.
3.03      The berthing facilities are being substantially expanded under the
ongoing First Port Project to be completed in July 1978. The project includes:
(a) composite pier with 600 m of container ship berths, and a grain berth and
silos; (b) Pier 7 for bulk coal and minerals; (c) rehabilitation of piers 1
and 2, which will include provision for an international ferry terminal, with
roll-on/roll-off facilities; and (d) a coastal ferry terminal. A new Govern-
ment-financed military pier will free pier 3 and the central wharf for commer-
cial cargoes. Full details of port facilities as they will be following com-
pletion of the First Port Project are shown in Annex 2.
3.04      With the completion of the proposed project, the port will have
reached the limits of its physical capacity. It will be necessary, therefore,
to look elsewhere to meet port expansion needs in southeast Korea beyond
about 1985. The Government intends to conduct a study for port expansion
in due course.
B.   Organization
3.05      In March 1976, following a 15-month study by consultants financed
under Loan 917-KO, KMPA was established under the MOT for the purpose of



- 7 -
administering the construction and operation of Korea's 20 first-class ports.
The 23 second-class ports and numerous minor local ports continue to be oper-
ated by local government officials. KMPA administers the first-class ports
through ten District Port Authorities. Key personnel were appointed in April
1976, and personnel from MOC's Bureau of Harbor Development have since been
transferred to KMPA to staff the construction and maintenance function. The
organizational structure (Chart 16452) is acceptable, although containing some
overlapping of functions at present. The Korea Dredging Corporation has been
transferred from MOC to MOT, and harbor dredging at first-class ports will now
be under the control of KMPA.
3.06      Construction of "industrial ports," forming part of industrial
complexes, continues under the control of MOC, which is responsible for con-
struction of industrial complexes. While this is a reasonable division of
responsibilities, KMPA's responsibility for overall planning of Korean ports
needs to be clarified with respect to the planning of industrial ports, since
the present law is not specific on this point. The Government has agreed to
establish an Inter-Ministerial Committee under the chairmanship of the Vice-
Minister of EPB, to review MOC's proposals for industrial port development,
and will take whatever other action may be required to ensure that the views
of MOT and KMPA on proposed industrial port developments are taken into account
before they are approved by EPB.
C.   Finances
3.07      Section 3.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement for Loan 917-KO provided that
KPA (KMPA) shall have independence and autonomy similar to that of Bor-
rower's statutory corporations in their day-to-day operations". (The finances
of statutory corporations are controlled under Law 1119.) However, the Plan of
Action (Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement) required the Government, by June 1,
1975, "... to establish KPA (KMPA) pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agree-
ment as an Office (chong) ...", which was stated during negotiations to have
powers similar to those of a statutory corporation. In fact, the finances of
a chong are controlled by Law 928 (Accounting and Budget Law for Government
Operated Enterprises), through the Government budgetary system (Annex 3).
KMPA was established under Law 928, which contains constraints impeding ef-
fective management of KMPA as a business enterprise, the principal of which
are: (a) financial control is exercised through expenditure limitation rather
than through operating performance as measured by overall financial results;
(b) control authority relating to operating costs is exercised outside KMPA;
(c) commercial accounting procedures, necessary for proper internal management,
have to be carried out in parallel with the budget accounting procedures
required by Law 928. The Government intends to amend Law 928, with effect
from January 1, 1979, so as to provide all Government operated enterprises
with greater flexibility in the use of their approved operating budgets. In
addition, the Government has agreed to grant KMPA, by the same date, the power
to incur debt, to fix the emoluments of its staff, to prepare its budgets in
commercial form (Annex 4), to maintain a bank account, and to maintain its
records in a commercial form.



- 8-
D.   Cargo-Handling Operations
3.08      KMPA is nominally responsible for cargo-handling operations on the
wharf but, in fact, it exercises little influence over the operations of the
numerous private licensed operators who handle cargo at all piers. The effi-
ciency of cargo-handling operations is low, due to (a) fragmentation of res-
ponsibility between the various cargo-handling companies and waste of time
and effort due to lack of coordination; (b) inadequate mechanical equipment
and pallets, which are often used only when manual labor is incapable of the
task; (c) excessive use of lighterage, resulting in low productivity; (d) use
of transit sheds for long-term storage; (e) excessive documentation, particu-
larly those of Customs, which requires forms even for cargo movement within the
port; and (f) Customs control over cargo movements within the transit sheds.
3.09      The organization of cargo-handling operations has been studied by a
consultant (Booz Allen & Hamilton - US) financed under Loan 917-KO. The con-
sultant's recommendations have been discussed with KMPA, and the following
measures to improve the efficiency of operations have been agreed with the
Government:
(a)  at the ports of Busan, Mugho and Incheon, a single TOC will
be appointed by March 31, 1978, on terms satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank, to manage cargo handling operations
exclusively at each of the bulk piers; and, by a date accept-
able to the Bank, at each of the bulk piers of the other
first class ports. For this purpose, the Bank will approve
a standard form of contract applicable to all locations;
(b)  at Busan's container wharf, a single terminal operating
company (TOC), with personnel drawn from the existing
container terminal operators, will be appointed, by March 31,
1978, on terms satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank
(Annex 5), to manage container handling operations;
(c)  at the ports of Busan, Mugho and Incheon, a single TOC will
be appointed by March 31, 1979, to manage break bulk cargo-
handling operations exclusively at each pier or other desig-
nated area; and by a date acceptable to the Bank, at each of
the other first class ports. For this purpose, the Bank
will approve a standard form of contract applicable to all
locations;
(d)  by July 1, 1982, or such other date as the Borrower and
the Bank may agree, when KMPA staff have gained sufficient
experience of supervising the TOC's cargo-handling oper-
ations, control of such operations will be taken over by
KMPA;
(e) by July 1, 1978, improved procedures for the control of
cargo movement within the Customs area will be implemented; and



- 9 -
(f) at the port of Busan, the container wharf, including
the container freight station, will be operated
24 hours a day.
3.10      The assumption by KMPA of a supervising and coordinating role in
cargo-handling operations will necessitate their hiring a nucleus of staff
experienced in cargo-handling operations. In order to recruit such opera-
tions staff in competition with private companies, the Government has agreed
to allow KMPA to fix the emoluments of its staff appropriately.
3.11      By 1978, when the new container wharf at Busan comes into operation,
the staff of Busan District Maritime and Port Authority (BDMPA) should have
a thorough understanding of its operating requirements. Some technical as-
sistance in this regard is being provided under Loan 917-KO; additional tech-
nical assistance and training is now proposed (para 4.02 (e) and Annex 1),
including overseas training at suitable ports.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   The Capital Investment Program
4.01      The Capital Investment Program for the port of Busan for 1976-81
totals about US$269 million equivalent (Table 1). It comprises expenditures
on the First Port Project through 1979; on the proposed project through 1981;
and on minor capital works throughout the period 1976-81. As already noted,
with the completion of the proposed project, Busan port will have reached the
limits of its physical capacity and, therefore, the program includes no
additional major project.
B.   The Project
4.02      The project is included in the Government's Fourth Five-Year Plan
and is in accordance with the recommendations of the consultants as amended
following the Bank's review of their proposals.  The proposed wharf is the
maximum length which can be accommodated in the present port of Busan, and
it would meet the port's needs for capacity to handle containerized cargo
until about 1985. Specifically, the project would comprise:
(a) Civil Works
(i)  A 700 m extension of the common-user container births
being financed under Loan 917-KO and a 335,000 m
expansion of the stacking area provided under that
project;
(ii) dredging to provide an alongside depth of 12.5 m;
(iii)  an access road, insidg the port limits; a guard
house; and an 8,000 m  container freight station;



- 10 -
(iv) ancillary works and utilities; and
(v) rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central
wharf, and a lighter wharf.
(b)  Mechanical Equipment
Procurement of container cranes and mobile container
handling equipment.
(c)  Floating Craft
Procurement of two tugboats.
(d)  Engineering Consultant Services
To carry out detailed design and supervision of
construction and procurement of the above.
(e)  Technical Assistance and Training Program (Annex 1)
To assist in four areas of port operations: cargo
handling (including the handling of containers);
maintenance; port planning; and accounting.
Full details of the project are given in Annex 6. Provision has been made
in the cost estimates for roll-on/roll-off facilities as traffic development
dictates. To ensurce prop,-e. ,aaintenance of the container handling equipment,
the project includes maintenance facilities and technical assistance to es-
tablish an adequate maintenance program.
4.03      The total estimated project cost is US$112 million (Won 54,283
million). The proposed loan of US$67 million (Won 32,495 million) would
finance most of the foreign exchange cost of the project; the local currency,
about US$42 million (Won 20,334 million) and US$3 million (Won 1,455 million)
of the foreign exchange cost would be financed by the Government. Details of
the project cost estimates are given in Table 2 and are summarized below:



- 11 -
% of
Won Equivalent (Million)   US$ Equivalent ('000) Total
Local   Foreign    Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
A.  Civil Works            9,904   12,142    22,046  20,420  25,040  45,460   41
B.  Mechanical Equipment
and Tugs              1,054    8,536       9,590   2,170  17,600  19,770   18
C.  Engineering Services   581    1,940        2,521   1,200   4,000   5,200    5
D.  Technical Assistance
and Training            150       582        732     310   1,200   1,510    1
E.  Base Cost Estimate
(BCE)                11,689   23,200    34,889  24,100  47,840  71,940    -
F.  Physical Contin-
gencies               1,485    1,821       3,306   3,060   3,750   6,810    6
G.  Expected Price In-
creases (38% BCE)    5,060    8,928    13,988  10,435  18,410  28,845   25
H.  Customs Duty on B    2,100        -        2,100   4,330    -        4,330    4
TOTAL               20,334   33,949    54,283  41,925  70,000 111,925  100
4.04      The cost estimates for civil works are based on preliminary designs
and unit prices for similar ongoing works in Korea, and those for mechanical
equipment on recent purchases, both at late 1976 prices; they are considered
adequate. Physical contingencies are equivalent to 15% of the civil works.
Expected price increases in foreign exchange for civil works have been calcu-
lated, over the period from late 1976 to the completion of ccnstruction, at
12% in 1977-79, and 10% in 1980 and 1981; and for mechanical equipment and
tugs, at 8% in 1977-79 and 7% in 1980 and 1981.
C.   Project Execution
4,05      The project will be carried out by KMPA, assisted by consultants.
D.   Consulting Services
4.06      The Government is about to appoint consultants for supervision of
construction and detailed engineering, including final soil investigations,
hydrographic and other surveys (Annex 6). Specialist consultants will also
be required for the technical assistance and the training program (Annex 1),
including 82 man-months of expatriate consultants at an estimated cost of
US$510,000 excluding travel and related expenses.



- 12 -
E.   Procurement and Disbursement
4.07      The project would be executed under three civil engineering contracts,
and two procurement contracts for mechanical equipment and tugs (Table 3). All
contracts would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The Government intends to levy
import duties on items procured for the project. Provision would be made to
allow a 15% preference for local manufacturers of mechanical equipment and
floating craft, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
4.08      The works are expected to be completed by the end of 1981, assuming
effectiveness of the proposed loan by July 1977. The construction schedule
is shown in Chart 16510.
4.09      Disbursement for the project civil works would be on the basis of
55% of total costs excluding import duties, representing the estimated foreign
exchange component. This is based upon experience gained on civil works under
the First Port Project, where all civil works contracts were won by Korean
contractors. For procurement of mechanical equipment, tugboats, and consult-
ing services disbursement would be on the basis of actual foreign exchange
cost; if local consultants are employed disbursement would be on the basis of
80% of total costs. Korea does not have any regional preference agreements.
Annual estimated project expenditure is shown in Table 4 and the estimated
schedule of disbursements in Table 5.
F.   Ecology
4.10      None of the proposed works will affect the existing ecology of the
harbor; any dredged material will be disposed of in a Government-approved
location 10 km to sea. Any improvement to the external access roads will be
designed following a proposed feasibility study, which will assess any likely
environmental impact (para 5.04).
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The current rapid industrialization in south east Korea is very
dependent on imports for supplies of industrial goods and raw materials, and
on export markets for its products. This large and fast-growing external
trade moves largely through Busan port which, as already noted, is Korea's
largest port. In addition, the port handles a substantial volume of container-
ized goods originating in, or destined for, the Seoul area. Without the pro-
posed project, all this traffic would suffer heavy penalties, in the form of
higher transport costs, and south east Korea's economic development would be
seriously retarded as a result. The full economic costs of such a course are
incalculable, but certainly very substantial. As a conservative measure of
these costs, the evaluation uses the cost of ship waiting time which would
result in the absence of the proposed project. The project would also reduce
transport costs on containerized cargo (paras 5.10-5.12).



- 13 -
5.02      Total traffic through Busan port has grown from 13.3 million revenue
tons in 1973 to 16.8 million tons in 1975, and is expected to reach about 19
million tons in 1976 (Table 6). Containerized cargo has grown even more rapid-
ly, increasing from 0.9 million tons in 1973 to 2.7 million tons in 1975. In
1976 it is expected to exceed 3 million tons. This rapid growth in container-
ized cargo has been achieved notwithstanding the present inadequate port facil-
ities. Completion of the First Port Project in 1978 will permit the introduc-
tion of direct services by mainline container ships (para 5.12), and will
facilitate continued rapid growth of container traffic. The proposed project
will be required by about 1981 to handle this expected traffic growth effi-
ciently and, therefore, construction must start about January, 1978.
5.03      The proposed project would encourage the use of larger, more effi-
cient ships; however, since it is uncertain whether the benefits of this would
accrue to Korea, no benefit has been taken. The propo.,ed facilities would be
substantially lower in capital cost than equivalent break-bulk facilities.
Consultants for the project reviewed a number of alternative sites in the
vicinity of the present port of Busan and a number in the vicinity of Masan,
and concluded that the proposed site is the lowest cost alternative.
B.   Landward Port Access
5.04      The roads giving access to the port are congested.  They pass through
Busan's central business district, which lies to the west and north of the port.
While traffic generated by the proposed project will not itself contribute
significantly to the problem, the growth of general city traffic is likely to
result in steadily increasing transport costs on all goods moving in and out
of the port and, ultimately, could limit the port's capacity unless appro-
priate steps are taken to improve the city's road network. In November, 1976,
a Presidential instruction was issued to the MOC to construct a road from the
port area to the Seoul/Busan expressway; construction is expected to be com-
pleted by December 31, 1979. This will eliminate any congestion affecting
traffic moving between the port and the Seoul area, and should help to relieve
congestion in the central business district of Busan. In addition, the Govern-
ment has agreed to undertake, by the end of 1979, a further study, satisfactory
to the Bank, of city-wide transport and land use which will seek medium-term
solutions to the city's congestion and assess their feasibility. The Govern-
ment has agreed to consult with the Bank on the study's findings and to imple-
ment its agreed recommendations.
C.   Traffic Forecast
5.05      The traffic forecast is based on a detailed commodity-by-commodity
projection, for the whole of Korea, of production and consumption patterns
and resulting import and export flows and coastal movements. These traffic
flows were allocated to the country's ports on a basis of the least transport
cost, and take account of established patterns of trading. The forecast's
underlying assumptions include an 8% annual growth in GNP from 1977-81, a 6.5%
annual growth in real per capita income, and an 11% overall annual growth in
exports between 1973 and 1981. Projections for each major commodity group take
account of past trends, current official plans and anticipated changes in the
outlook for the supply of materials and the demand for the final products.



- 14 -
5.06      Total port traffic is forecast to grow from an estimated 19.1 mil-
lion revenue tons in 1976 to 31.2 million tons in 1986, an average annual
growth rate of 5% (Table 6). General cargo, including containerized cargo,
is forecast at a 4-1/2% annual growth rate, increasing from 8.1 million tons
in 1976 to 12.6 million tons in 1986. Full details of the forecast are con-
tained in Annex 7.
5.07      The proportion of general cargo which is expected to be contain-
erized is forecast to increase from the present 44% for imports and 40% for
exports to 60% for imports and 52% for exports by 1984. The higher figure
for imports reflects the imbalance between imports and exports which provides
an inducement to containerize as high a proportion of imports as possible
rather than to ship in empty containers. The number of containers is forecast
on the basis of the current average revenue tons per container. Throughout the
forecast period it is expected that a substantial proportion of Seoul container
traffic will continue to move through Busan. However, as the volume increases,
it will become economic to make an increasing number of shipments through
Incheon.
5.08      The principal risk in the forecast relates to the volume of contain-
erized cargo, since the past very rapid growth provides no guide as to future
traffic trends. If the proportion of containerized general cargo is less than
forecast, the need for additional break bulk berths will be brought forward, as
will the need for an alternative site to the present port for future expansion.
A higher forecast of container traffic would have no effect on the scope of the
project which, as already noted, is the maximum size which could be constructed
in the port of Busan. The effect of over-estimation of container traffic on
project benefits is dealt with in para 5.14.
D.   Project Benefits and Risks
5.09      Without the proposed project, it would be desirable to route all
Seoul container traffic via Incheon. Other container traffic together with
break bulk and bulk cargo (about 80% of total port traffic) would continue to
move through Busan. Such a rerouting of Seoul containers would require some
additional investment at Incheon in container handling equipment and would
inevitably lead to ship waiting time at the entrance to the port due to de-
lays in passage through the locks. The calculation of project benefits does
not include allowance for either of these factors (para 5.10). Even if the
shipping companies elected to ship all Seoul containers through Incheon severe
congestion would still develop in Busan without the project. Berth occupancy
would increase steadily to 85% in 1982 and, by 1985, the port would be satu-
rated. This assumes an increase in productivity of break bulk general cargo
handling from the present 850 metric tons per meter per year to the high per-
formance standard of 1,000 tons per meter, and congestion would be increased
by any failure to achieve this higher productivity. Ship waiting time would
increase correspondingly and, by 1985, would reach about 2,800 ship days a
year. The economic costs of the waiting time of Korean ships (excluding, that
is, the cost of foreign ships) are estimated to increase from US$1.3 million
in 1981 to US$9.7 million in 1985 and, thereafter, are assumed to stabilize
at US$10 million a year (Table 7). It should be emphasized that there are
additional economic costs of congestion at Busan in terms of the retarded



- 15 -
economic development of the region, which have not been estimated but would
probably continue to rise after 1985.
5.10      If Seoul container traffic were directed through Incheon rather than
Busan, the cost of ocean freight plus road transport between Incheon and Seoul
would be about US$12 per container more than the cost of ocean freight to or
from Busan plus road transport between Busan and Seoul. The extra cost would
amount to about US$1.8 million in 1981 rising to US$2.3 million in 1985 and
has been taken as a benefit of the project. These figures are based on the
relatively high volume of 400 containers in and out per vessel, and would in-
crease if fewer containers per vessel are handled. No allowance has been
made for the inevitable ship waiting time which would occur as a result of
delays in passage of vessels through the locks at Incheon. If Seoul container
traffic were routed through Busan some extra ship waiting time would also
result, even with the proposed project; however, this would be unlikely to
exceed the ship waiting time which would occur at Incheon if the traffic were
routed that way.
5.11      The proposed container freight station at Busan would reduce the
number of containers which would have to be transported to and from container
yards outside the port from 70% of the total, following completion of the First
Port Project, to 40%. This saving of transportation and double handling costs
on 30% of the container volume is estimated at US$48 per container, or about
US$4 million in 1981. The 40% of containers which would continue to move
outside the port comprises largely Seoul container traffic.
5.12      At present, because of the inadequate facilities, there are no
direct mainline container shipping services to Basan, and containers are
transferred between mainline container ships and feeder vessels at a Japanese
port, at a cost of US$210 per container, and are then transported in the
feeder vessels to and from Korea. The cost of transshipment at the Japanese
port, and transport between there and Korea is at present included in the
rates charged by the mainline container shipping companies, who quote rates
on a "FOB Korean port" basis (or "CIF Korean port" in the case of shipments
to Korea). Completion of the First Port Project will permit the introduc-
tion of direct mainline container services to Busan and will thus eliminate
the Japanese transfer cost on about 25% of Busan's 1981 container traffic.
The proposed project would permit a further increase in the proportion of
direct container shipments and the Japanese transfer cost is expected to be
eliminated on all but 25% of Korea's container traffic. The benefit of this
will accrue initially to the foreign shipowner and, therefore, it has not
been included in the project benefits. However, in the long term, it can be
expected to have a favorable influence on container shipping rates to Korea.
5.13      The proposed facilities are designed to serve mainline container
ships; if they had been designed for smaller ships, such as semi-container
vessels or the present feeder vessels, a smaller project at a lower cost would
have sufficed. Based on the experience of such ports as Singapore and Port
Klang, it is believed that competition among container shipping companies and
growing congestion in Japanese ports will assure the rapid institution of
mainline container services direct to Busan. The Government has agreed to
continue to permit foreign vessels to serve Korean ports in accordance with



- 16 -
the provisions of Article II (2) of the Merchant Marine Promotion Law. 1/
In addition, it plans to charter, by 1981, a substantial number of container
ships and to operate them between Korean ports and ports in the United States
and Europe. It is reasonably certain, therefore, that the full benefits of
the project will be derived. The plans for Korean container ships and the
Government's undertakings regarding port charges (paras 6.03(d) and 6.17)
provide assurance that a reasonable proportion of the project's benefits
will be retained in the Korean economy.
5.14      In the unlikely event that the proportion of traffic which is con-
tainerized has been over-estimated, the benefits mentioned in paras 5.10 and
5.11 would be reduced. However, the reduction would be partially offset by
the benefits from the project through the reduction of ship waiting time which
would otherwise be increased because the higher proportion of break bulk cargo
would reduce average cargo-handling productivity and thus increase port con-
gestion. The net effect on project benefits would be a maximum reduction of
15% (para 5.16).
E.   Economic Return, Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
5.15      The foregoing benefits yield an economic return of 17% on the pro-
posed project. The first year return at 8% is low but considered adequate
having regard to the fact that the penalties, in the form of higher ship
waiting time which would be incurred if Busan port traffic has been under-
estimated, are substantially greater than the penalties in the form of
surplus port capacity, which would be incurred if port traffic has been
overestimated. Delay in implementing the project could have very serious
consequences for the Korean economy.
5.16      The 15% reduction in project benefits (para 5.14), resulting from
a lower proportion of container traffic than forecast would reduce the return
to 14%.
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   General
6.01      BDMPA is expected to be a division of KMPA, maintaining separate
accounts, but in the financial forecasts, it has been treated as if it were a
financially autonomous unit, and therefore its balance sheets show the relevant
portions of Loan 917-KO and the proposed Second Port loan as if they were
liabilities of BDMPA. The Government has agreed that, upon the granting of
increased financial autonomy to KMPA on January 1, 1979, it will assume loans
to the Government in the same amounts and on terms similar to those of Loan
917-KO and the proposed Second Port loan. No financial forecast has been
provided for KMPA because the necessary data will not exist until commercial
accounting has been established.
1/   Law No. 1985 dated February 28, 1967 - Article 11 (Usage of Korean Flag).



- 17 -
B.   KMPA's Accounting and Costing Systems, Rates and Charges
6.02      Consultants financed under Loan 917-KO (Booz, Allen & Hamilton -
US) have designed new accounting, costing and management information systems
for KMPA, which plans to implement the systems in the near future with the
aid of technical assistance, also financed under that Loan, and in accord-
ance with agreed terms of reference.
6.03      The adequacy of port tariffs varies from port to port.  While in
some ports they are clearly inadequate, in Busan they are, at present, not
cost-based and charges for containerized traffic are low. The Government
has agreed to;
(a)  establish in Busan not later than January 1, 1979, a cost-
based tariff satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
(b)  review tariffs at other ports within KMPA's jurisdiction
and, as an interim measure, with a view to eventually
establishing cost-based tariffs, to establish, by Jan-
uary 1, 1979, tariffs which will yield revenues reason-
ably in line with total costs at Incheon, Mugho, Yeosu
and Pohang, and at other major ports later, in agreement
with the Bank;
(c)  establish at Busan, by May 1, 1978, a uniform tariff for
each 20 ft equivalent container unit handled in the port;
and, to this end, the Borrower will undertake a study
(Annex 1) of the level of container charges at Incheon
and Busan; and
(d)  establish at Busan, before July 1, 1978, a charge to
each TOC employed in the port, which will recover the
port's costs of servicing and maintaining the pier and
equipment used by the TOC together with depreciation,
and a return on capital (para 6.12).
C.   KMPA's Asset Values and Depreciation
6.04      The present port assets are old and in poor condition.  There are
no records of the original cost of many items. In 1975, the Government ap-
pointed a Working Party which revalued all existing assets in use throughout
the country (Annex 8). These valuations, which are reasonable, are used in
the current estimates.
6.05      The depreciation provisions appear to be low, particularly in the
case of ports other than Busan. The Government has agreed to adopt by Jan-
uary 1, 1982, realistic depreciation rates for KMPA's port assets. Until 1982
the injection of newly acquired fixed assets far exceeding the value of Busan's
existing old assets will minimize the need for revaluation to take account of
inflation. Consideration should then be given to this problem. However, it
is considered premature to address the issue at this time in view of the more
urgent matters facing KMPA.



- 18 -
D.   BDMPA's Receivables, Payables and Stores
6.06      Under the Government budgetary system (Annex 3) there is no meaning-
ful cash balance, and accounts receivable are not kept. The figure of Won 11
million shown in the 1975 balance sheet represents wharfage and demurrage
which had already been invoiced but not paid at the year end; the port charges
due, but not invoiced, at the year end are not recorded or known. Similarly,
no record of accounts payable is maintained under the cash budgetary system,
the amount of Won 691 million shown in the balance sheet as at December 31,
1975 representing only major items outstanding for contractors' and consul-
tants' accounts awaiting IBRD loan disbursements, and interest and commitment
charges payable to the Bank on February 1, 1976. No stores accounts are kept,
purchases being regarded as current expenditure regardless of the period in
which the stores concerned were actually used. In general, port operations
are so conducted that accounts receivable and payable are very low in relation
to turnover, and few consumable stores are kept on hand.
E.   Financial Staffing
6.07      There are no qualified accountants in BDMPA, nor any accounting staff
familiar with double-entry bookkeeping. Furthermore, the level of salaries
which KMPA is at present authorized to pay makes it difficult to attract and
retain suitably qualified accounting staff, since they can earn far more in
the private sector. In future, the payment of special allowances or employ-
ment under contract, to which the Government has agreed, should minimize this
problem. However, it is essential that KMPA acquire, or develop through a
training program, sufficient qualified accountants and the proposed project
provides consultancy assistance to set up training courses for accountants.
F.   BDMPA's Past and Current Earnings and Current Financial Position
6.08      BDMPA's revenue and expenditure accounts and balance sheets as pre-
sented for 1973-75 are according to the best available data and constitute an
adequately reliable basis for appraisal purposes.
6.09      Comparable gross and net earnings figures for Busan are available
only on a cash basis for the three years 1973, 1974 and 1975. The true
figures are unlikely to differ significantly from the cash figures.
6.10      Cash revenues, cash operating costs, depreciation and interest
charges on an accrued basis for the three years 1973-75 are shown in Table 8.
In 1975, net operating revenue was Won 1.3 billion representing a modest re-
turn of 6% on average net fixed assets in use, and the operating ratio was a
satisfactory 42. Under the Government budgetary system neither current nor
liquidity ratios would be meaningful because there is no cash balance as such.
6.11      The development of port charges and net revenue over the period
1973-76 has been reasonable in relation to the book value of port assets.
In part, this improvement resulted from the tariff increase established in
1974 as a condition of Loan 917-KO.



- 19 -
G.   Establishment of Terminal Operating Companies (TOCs)
6.12      At present, the ports do not charge the cargo-handling companies
for the use of port assets. This is not acceptable and when, in 1978, TOCs
are appointed with exclusive right to operate at individual piers, BDMPA will
establish charges to the TOCs which are related to the value of the port's
assets used by each.
6.13      Accordingly, BDMPA's projected profit and loss account shows
revenue derived from such charges to the TOCs. Estimates of operating and
maintenance costs of the equipment provided under Loan 917-KO and to be pro-
vided under the proposed project are included in forecast operating expenses.
6.14      In about 1982, when BDMPA assumes responsibility for all cargo-
handling functions it will incur some additional costs and revenues belonging,
until that time, to the TOCs. No information is available on these costs and,
for this reason and because the takeover lies essentially outside the forecast
period, no attempt has been made to forecast the effect of such an extension of
responsibility.
H.   BDMPA's Future Earnings and Finances
6.15      Financial forecasts for BDMPA for 1976-82 together with actual fig-
ures for 1975 are shown in Tables 9, 10 and 11, these being respectively
profit and loss accounts, balance sheets and cash flow statements. Inflation
has been taken into account in forecasting working expenses. Major tariffs
were increased by 25% in March 1977. It is assumed that tariff charges will
be further increased in line with the assumed increases in the general price
level in Korea. Furthermore, the forecasts assume that specific tariff
increases will be made, in particular, for bulk handling and container activ-
ities to recoup the additional expenditure incurred as a result of the capital
expenditure program (para 6.17). All assumptions used in the financial
forecasts are detailed in Annex 9.
6.16      Completion in 1978 of the First Port Project will change the finan-
cial picture dramatically. Operating costs in 1978, will be more than four
times the 1977 level, due largely to increased depreciation. Increased
charges for maintenance due to the costs of running the new bulk handling
equipment, and for port administration, due to the increased number and qua-
lity of staff, will also contribute to the higher operating costs. Depre-
ciation charges, which remain very low through 1977, will suddenly increase,
in 1978, about seven times. Interest charges on the IBRD and Saudi Fund for
Development loans relating to Loan 917-KO will have reached their peak, and
will be running at a level nearly four times as high as the charges in 1976.
6.17      To provide for these developments, charges against TOCs and ship-
ping companies equivalent to US$58 per container have been assumed to occur on
July 1, 1978, rising to US$68 on July 1, 1981. In practice such charges will
be imposed selectively with regard to the cost of wharf facilities and mechan-
ical equipment used for each type of cargo i.e. bulk cargo, containers and
break bulk. Studies financed under Loan 917-KO have indicated that increases



- 20 -
in the Busan port dues and cargo tariffs on the scale called for could reason-
ably be imposed. In relation to the efficiency of the port, and the present
absence of delays to ships seeking berths, existing charges (particularly for
containers) are low. The total charges for clearing a container in or out of
the port amount at present to about US$20 per movement, of which roughly half
goes to thie stevedores. In other parts of the world the comparable charge can
run from US$100 to as much as US$180.  The estimrniel i:-:al revenue from charges
to be levied against TOCs has been asse,.,3;l 7-ala: [; i) the fixed assets likely
to be used in such operations.
6.18      BDMPA's operating ratios are exceptionally low in 1976 and 1977,
before the completion of the First Port Project; thereafter the ratios range
between 44 and 48, which is satisfactory.  Tirnes inter-si- :' itraJ.l iS lowest in
1978 at 1.5x and is satisfactory during the oi:,her forecast years. Debt service
coverage is lowest in 1931, $heL it              5lls  ,c l.9; bit it recovers to 1.8x in
1982 because of increasing revenues and falling interest payments.
6.19      BDMPA's estimated  balance sheet data for the years 1976-82 are shown
in Table 10.  The debt/equity ratio rises to only 53/47 (in 1981) and improves
to 49/51 in 1982.  Current liquid ratios range between 1.1 and 1.6 during the
project construction period, which is satisfactory.
6.20      The forecasts result in net operating revenue representing between
7.6% and 7.9% p.a. on BDMPA's average net fixed assets in use during the period
1978 to 1982 inclusive i.e., after the completion of the First Port Project
and before total net asset values start declining after the completion (if the
Second Port Project. The Government has agreed that BDMPA be required to earn
a return of not less than 7% in 1978 and subsequent years. This replaces the
rate of return covenant of the Loan Agreement for Loan 917-KO (Section 4.05
(a) (iii)), which requires BDMPA to earn a return of not less than 6% on its
net fixed assets in 1978 and subsequent years. Section 4.05 (a) (iv) of this
Loan Agreement, which requires KPA (KMPA) to earn in 1978 and thereafter an
annual rate of return to be agreed between the Borrower, the Bank and KPA
(KMPA), has been reaffirmed.
I.   BDMPA's Cash Position and Financial Plan
6.21      Estimated cash flow data for the forecast period are set forth in
Table 11. The cash position is made satisfactory by the inclusion of cash
grants in the form of equity from the Government/KMPA totalling Won 9.9
billion during the years 1977/78. On this basis, the future cash position
will be satisfactory, although BDMPA will not be able to start building up
substantial cash funds until after 1981 unless tariffs or charges to TOCs are
increased more than in the forecasts in Table 9. The disposal of the accumu-
lated cash funds arising from then onwards will be a matter for the Government
and KMPA to decide in the light of its overall corporate position from time to
time.  Based on all assumptions referred to herein, the future cash positWo
will be satisfactory. The financial plan (Table 12) based on cash flow
estimates indicates that for the perio(d 1975-82, internally-generated funds
would provide 25% of investment fund requirements, with Government/M4PA Jgrants
accounting for about 14%, and long-term loans 61%. Thlese proportions are
satisfactory.



- 21 -
6.22      To ensure that an adequate financial position is maintained, the
Government has agreed that (i) KMPA will not incur new debt on behalf of BDMPA
if the net revenue falls below 1.5 times maximum debt service; (ii) the Gov-
errment will provide or cause KMPA to provide to BDMPA such funds as BDMPA
shall require over and above its internally-generated cash, from time to time,
to enable it to implement its development program; and (iii) expenditures on
capital works at BDMPA other than the First and Second Port Projects, will be
limited to US$1.5 million p.a. after 1978 and until construction of the Second
Project is completed.
6.23      The Government has confirmed that the port's assets, at present
vested in the Government, net of the debts to be assumed, will be transferred
to KMPA free of interest or charges thereon.
J.   Auditing and Insurance
6.24      From January 1, 1979, when KMPA's financial autonomy is increased,
its accounts and financial statements, including those for BDMPA, will be
audited annually by independent qualified auditors satisfactory to the Bank,
in accordance with the requirements of Loan 917-KO. This has been reaffirmed.
KMPA will employ qualified accountants to assist it in preparing commercial
form financial statements from its budget accounts, for purposes of reporting
to the Bank, and in implementing a commercial accounting system.
6.25      Under the conditions of Loan 917-KO, KMPA is required to take out,
and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfac-
tory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice. This has been reaffirmed by
the Government.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreement has been reached that the Government will:
(a) establish an Inter-Ministerial Committee to review MOC's
industrial port development proposals and will take what-
ever other action is required to ensure that KMPA's views
are taken into account before they are approved by EPB
(para 3.06);
(b) amend Law 928 to grant KMPA certain autonomous financial
powers (para 3.07);
(c) cause KMPA to implement measures to improve the efficiency
of operations at all first class ports (para 3.09);
(d) allow KMPA to fix the emoluments of its staff at appropriate
levels (para 3.10);



- 22 -
(e)  construct a road from the port area to the Seoul-Busan
expressway by December 31, 1979; and undertake a study
of city-wide transport and land use (para 5.04);
(f)  continue to allow foreign vessels to serve Korean ports
(para 5.13);
(g)  as from January 1, 1979, cause KMPA to assume loans to the
Government in the same amounts and on similar terms to
those of Loan 917-KO and the proposed loan (para 6.01);
(h)  cause KMPA to establish (para 6.03);
(i) at Busan, a cost-based tariff;
(ii) at Incheon, Mugho, Yeosu and Pohang, tariffs yielding
revenues reasonably in line with total costs; and
extend this practice to other major ports later, in
agreement with the Bank;
(iii) at Busan, a uniform tariff for containers; and KMPA to
undertake a study of the level of container charges;
(iv) at Busan, a tariff of charges to each TOC (paras 6.03
and 6.12);
(i) cause KMPA to adopt realistic asset depreciation rates
by January 1, 1982 (para 6.05);
(j)  cause KIPA to (i) earni Li 1979 and thereafter, a return
to be agreed with the Bank and (ii) enable BDMPA to earn
a return of not less than 7% in 1978 and subsequent years
(para 6.20);
(k)  not authorize KMPA to (i) incur debt on behalf of BDMPA if
net revenue falls below 1.5 times maximum debt service;
and (ii) make investments at Busan port in excess of
US$1.5 million per annum during the project period (para 6.22);
(1)  provide or cause KMPA to provide any funds required by
BDMPA over its internally-generated cash (para 6.22);
(m)  cause KMPA to have its accounts, and those of BDMPA, audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para 6.24);
(n)  cause KMPA to employ adequately qualifiel and experienced
accountants (para 6.24); and
(o)  cause KMPA to maintain adequate insurance provisions (para 6.25).



- 23 -
7.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$67 million
equivalent to the Government of Korea for a term of 17 years, including a
grace period of 3-1/2 years. KMPA will assume a debt to the Government in
the same amount and on similar terms on January 1, 1979, following the
necessary legislative changes.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training Program
1.        The First Port Project (Loan 917-KO) provided 220 man-months of
consultants' time to assist the Government set up KMPA and to formulate and
implement new operating and accounting procedures. The first phase of
this work is now complete. A second phase, consisting of the implementation
of the procedures formulated in the first phase, will commence shortly. Con-
tinuing technical assistance and training is required, and the proposed pro-
gram would provide 82 man-months of expatriate technical assistance to KMPA.
It would cover three areas of port operations: cargo-handling; maintenance;
and port planning. In addition, the Government will finance accounting train-
ing, undertaken by Korean accountants with the assistance of foreign experts,
and a study of container handling charges. Details of the proposals are given
below.
Cargo Handling
2.        The present arrangements for handling containers in the port of
Busan do not include stacking and retrieval or stuffing/unstuffing of con-
tainers, and operation and maintenance of container cranes and container
handling equipment such as straddle carriers. The new container wharf, being
constructed under the First Port Project, is expected to come into operation
in 1978 and, by then, KMPA staff should have a thorough understanding of the
operation of such a modern facility, to enable them to supervise the work of
the terminal operating company (TOC). By 1982, KMPA staff should be capable
of taking over the operation of the container wharf from the TOC.
3.        The proposed training program would include overseas training,
at a port such as Singapore, in container handling operations; operational
control methods, including computerized systems; breakbulk handling opera-
tions; and security practices. It provides for:
(a) five groups of three staff and two foremen in container
handling operations for three months;
(b) one group of three staff in operational control methods,
including selection and use of computer equipment and
software, for six months;
(c)  one group of three staff and two foremen in breakbulk
handling, for three months; and
(d) one group of three staff in security practices for three
months.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Consultant services would be provided to review periodically
container handling operations, following start-up of the Phase I facilities
in July 1978, and to advise on improvements in operational methods, including
computerization of the operational system.
Maintenance
5.        M4aintenance of port facilities, at present carried out by the
Ministry of Construction (MOC), must be taken over by KMPA as soon as possi-
ble to ensure that adequate priority and funds are assigned to such work.
Furthermore, following start-up of the Phase I container facilities in July
1978, KMPA will become responsible for maintaining all the container handling
equipment in Busan port; and, about a year later, it will become responsible
for the handling of breakbulk general cargo and, therefore, for the maintenance
of equipment for this purpose.
6.        Expatriate assistance would be nD ovided to set up adequate mainte-
nance facilities in each of the first class ports; to design a preventive
maintenance program for cargo handling equipment, particularly the container
handling equipment provided by this project and the First Port Project (Loan
917-KO); and to train staff adequately to act as maintenance inspectors.
Port Planning
7.        Port planning, as distinct from the designing of port facilities,
virtually does not exist in Korea. The Government does not, at present, make
projections of port traffic based on carefully collected and analyzed traffic
statistics. It tends to rely on port users to alert it to the need for expan-
sion of port facilities. Also, it does not analyze the economics of alterna-
tive ways of meeting the demand for port facilities. While KMPA has well
trained and capable port engineers, there is a general lack of planning exper-
ience, and a lack of knowledge of related nca-engineering fields which are
necessary for a good port planner.
8.        Overseas training would be provided for two port engineers for six
months each in techniques of port planning. In addition, expatriate assist-
ance would be provided to set up the planning function, and to initiate plans
for port facilities to meet the needs of Korea beyond 1985. Also, consulting
services would be provided to develop a satisfactory collection system for
operational statistics.
Accounting Training
9.        At present, KMPA does not have any qualified accountants nor any
staff that understand double-entry bookkeeping. While the First Port Project
provided funds for the design and implementation of a commercial accounting
system, it is essential to ensure an adequate supply of staff who understand
the fundamental principles of accounting if the system which has been designed
is to be successfully implemented and maintained. It is therefore necessary



ANNEX 1
Page 3
to introduce a suitable course in the Ministry of Transportation Training
Center in Seoul which KMPA staff would attend. A local accounting firm will
be used for the purpose of setting up and conducting such courses. The serv-
ices of expatriate experts will also be required for the implementation of
the accounting procedures designed under the First Port Project.
Study of Container Handling Charges
10.       The ongoing First Port Project and the proposed project will provide
substantially improved facilities for container traffic and will, therefore,
significantly reduce the costs of container shipping and handling companies.
However, the new facilities will add substantially to the port's operating
costs and, therefore, the port will have to adjust its tariff appropriately
to cover these increased costs.
11.       It is proposed that KMPA, using its own resources, undertake a
study of the level of container charges which takes account of:
(a) the port's container handling costs;
(b) the present level of container charges at Japanese
ports and at Incheon; and
(c)  the need to maintain a differential between container
charges at Busan and those at Incheon which reflects
the economic costs of using each port and encourages
increased use of Incheon's under-utilized facilities.
March, 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 1
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training Program
Cost Summary
Local Cost    Foreign Cost
(Won'OOO)        (US$)
Cargo Handling
Overseas Training
Other reimbursable costs                             14,000          300,000
Consulting Services for Review of Container
Operations
6 man-months                                           -              40,000
Other reimbursable costs                              7,500           30,000
Maintenance
Expatriate Assistance in Setting up
Maintenance Facilities
48 man-months                                        10,000          300,000
Equipment                                               -            300,000
Other reimbursable costs                             12,500           30,000
Port Planning
Overseas Training in Port Planning                       7,500           30,000
Expatriate Assistance in Port Planning
16 man-months                                        10,000          100,000
Consulting Services for Operaticnal Statistics
Information System
12 man-months                                         2,000           70,000
Training of Accountants
Korean Consultancy assistance by
qualified accountants
24 man-months                                        80,000
Study of Container Handling Charges
12 man-months                                         5,000             -
Other reimbursable costs                              1,500
TOTAL    Won '000      150,000  US$  1,200,000
March 1977



ANNEX 2
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Busan - Port Facilities Following
Completion of First Port Project
Name and Type                      Effective      Available
of Structure                       Length (m)    Depth (m)    Use               Remarks
A.  Deep Water Berthage
Pier No. 1
Open pier with fill between aprons.  North 368          8.0      Public        Being repaired
Existing 95 m wide pier structure    South 200          8.0      New Inter-    and expanded
being widened by-.a further 101 m                                 national      under the First
reinforced-concrete deck supported                                Ferry         Port Project
on concrete piles.                                                Terminal
Pier No. 2
Open pier with fill between            North 419       10.2      Public        Being repaired
aprons.                                South 365       10.2                     under the First
Port Project
Pier No. 3
Stone block gravity                    North 470        9.0      Public        Needs repairs to
Caisson gravity                        South 450        9.0                     deck, and improve-
ment of lighting
and water supply
Pier No. 4
Caisson gravity                        North 603        9.0      203 m bulk   Needs repairs to
cement       deck, and improve-
handling     ment of lighting
400 m public  and water supply
Stone block gravity                    South 550        9.0      Public
Central Wharf
Caisson and stone block gravity               645       9.0      Public        Needs repairs to
deck, and improve-
ment of lighting
and water supply



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Bukbin Wharf
Steel sheet pile bulkhead.    New finger pier
Two new finger piers,            (30 m wide)                    New Coastal) Improvements added
open type construction with    North Pier                        Ferry      )  under the First
reinforced concrete deck on       North 145             7.0      Terminal  ) Port Project
concrete piles, being added.      South.135             7.0      for public)
South Pier                                 )
North 150            7.0
South 140            7.0
New Composite Pier (Pier No. 5)
Reinforced concrete wharf       Grain berths 336       12.5     Bulk grain ) Being constructed
apron supported on concrete                                      handling  )  under the First
piles; with sheet-piled                                          only       )  Port Project
retaining wall.                 Container berths600  12.5       Exclusively
Ro/Ro provision 59   12.5        for con-
Pier No. 7
Hydraulic fill behind sheet    North berths 245        10.0     Bulk hand- ) Being constructed
piled retaining wall wharf.    Two 90 m ores and                  ling of   )  under the First
Reinforced concrete deck on      minerals export                  scrap metal  Port Project
concrete piled wharf apron       berths                           steel bil-)
upon which ore, coal and        One 65 m scrap and                lets, coal)
scrap metal handling             ore storage area                and mineral
cranes will be installed.       Westberths 320         10.0      ores       )
Concrete piled foundations      One  135 m coal                             )
for coal stacker-reclaimer       and ores import
berth
One 185 m steel
billets and scrap
import berths



ANNEX 2
Page 3
B. Lighter Berths
L/W 1
Gravity wall                          160              2.0      Public        Deck needs repairs
L/W 2
Gravity wall                          115               2.0     Public and   Deck needs repairs
Military
L/W 3
Gravity wall                          227               2.0     Military      Fair
L/W 4
Gravity wall                          362               2.0     Public        Deck needs repairs
L/W 5
Gravity wall                          298               2.0     Coal Corp.   Deck needs repairs.
Lighting and water
supply needed
L/W 6
Gravity wall                           98               2.0     Coal Corp.   Deck needs repairs
L/W 7
Counterfort concrete wall             290               2.0     Public        Deck needs repairs
on concrete piles
L/W 8
Gravity wall                          502               2.0     KNR and       Fair
Military
Custom's L/W
Gravity wall                          192               2.0     Customs       Good
Bukbin L/W
Gravity wall                          192               2.0     Military and Deck needs repairs
Passenger
South Harbor Wharf
Gravity wall                          716               2.0     Public        Good
Source: Bank Staff
November 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
The Government Budget System
1.        Government-owned corporations such as KMPA are given an annual
budget grant for expenditure, which is entirely divorced from income.
The budget allots ceilings to expenditure under a large number of
different headings; these headings are entirely different from those under
which the Bank requires expenditure to be reported. For example, the
salaries budget is set out in terms of establishment for the District Port
Authority concerned, by Civil Service grade, and not in terms of the loca-
tion and function of the personnel concerned.
2.        Cash expenditure is posted to ledger accounts at the head of each
of which the budget ceiling is recorded, so that progress against budget can
be monitored. There is no cash book as such. The records are generally not
kept in a form permitting expenditures at subsidiary ports to be determined
without an ad hoc investigation, payment by payment.
3.        At the end of the calendar year the books are not closed off; a
20-day period of grace is allowed within which expenditures may still be
allocated to the budget of the year concerned. In theory, no doubt, such
payments should only cover debts for goods and services which had already
been incurred by the year end. Practice may well be different.
4.        As with all budget systems where unspent balances are cancelled,
there is a premium on getting the full amount spent if possible. Consumable
stores are an excellent object for such expenditure, particularly if no
stores records are kept and no stocks brought into account at the year end.
Under the Korean system, it may or may not be possible to pay during the
"period of grace" for items which should properly be chargeable to the
budget of the following year; this will depend on the thoroughness of the
Government auditors.
5.        There are, no doubt, occasions when budget allocations may be
fully spent, e.g., maintenance of buildings, and the system is too inflexi-
ble to permit switching of underspent allocations from other sections to
permit maintenance work to continue or payments to be made until the
following budget year.
6.        In KMPA financial reports, the absence of any accounts payable
(except for a grossly understated item for interest and commitment charges)
may perhaps be explained by the clearing of outstandings during the period
of grace. At Busan, however, an analysis of contractors' and consultants'



ANNEX 3
Page 2
invoices paid in the quarter following the 1975 year end (i.e., out of the
1976 capital budget) produced outstandings of nearly half a million Won. The
absence of any value for consumable stores at the year end is also a matter
which calls for examination.
7.        KI4PA is expected to engage a qualified Korean professional accountant
to analyze all payments for the 1975 budget from December 1, up to the end of
the period of grace, and also at least the first two months of payments from
the 1976 budget.
8.        Pending the implementation of a commercial accounting system, the
accountant would also set up a proper dual analysis system for cash payments.
The books of account would be so constituted that invoices are automatically
analyzed as they are paid, or when received, under the following headings:
(i) by Government budget heading;
(ii) by headings required for Bank reporting purposes,
distinguishing between project ports, secondary
ports, and navigational aids not directly related
to either;
(iii) by the Bank accounting periods to which they relate; and
(iv) by the nature of the payments, consumable stores being
separately noted so that at the end of an accounting
period purchases can be scrutinized and enquiries made
regarding any substantial quantities likely still to
be in stock.
December 1976



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
KNPA Pro-Forma Special Account
I.  Profit and Loss Account                                       II.  Capital Account
Revenues                       Expenditures                      Revenues                    Expenditures
1.  Operating Revenues      1.  Operating Expenditures
Port dues                    Maintenance of port               Surplus                    Port construction (work in
Dockage                       facilities                       Sale of Fixed Assets        progress)
Anchorage                    Electricity and other             Sale of Current Assets    Acquisition of movable assets
Wharfage                      utilities                        Medium and long-term       Acquisition of fixed assets
Storage charges              Maintenance of equipment           government loans          Purchase of current assets
Tuggage                       and vessels                      Foreign loans              Repayment of medium and long-
Charge for equipment         Transportation expenses           Inventory sales             term government loans
utilization                 General Administration            Depreciation reserve       Repayment of foreign loans
Training and research             Transfer from the          Inventory purchases
Government's Account      Research and development
Contingencies
2. Non-Operating Revenues 2. Other Expenditures
License fees                Depreciation costs
Administration fees         Interest
Concession fees from TOCs  Contingencies
Interest                    Miscellaneous expenses
Sales of discarded non
-capital items
3. Net Profit
TOTAL                       TOTAL                             TOTAL                       TOTAL
8-



ANNEX 5
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Terminal Operating Company (TOC) Contract
1.        Busan District Port Authority (BPDA) should contract, on terms
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, with a single terminal operating
company (TOC) for the management of container-handling operations at the
composite pier for a suitable period. 1/
2.        The contract should govern, inter-alia:
(a) charges to made by KMPA for the use of port facilities
and equipment;
(b) the tariff of charges to be made by the TOC for its
various services, including a uniform charge for each
20 ft equivalent container unit;
(c) the facilities and equipment to be provided by KMPA;
(d) responsibility for operating the terminal in an effi-
cient manner for use by all KMPA's customers and for
handling ships according to the directions of KMPA;
(e) responsibility for maintenance of container and cargo
handling equipment, including an agreed annual mainte-
nance budget; and
(f) the right of KMPA periodically to review the TOC's
operating costs and adjust the KMPA and TOC charges
accordingly.
December 1976
1/   The period should not in the first instance exceed the period required
to enable BDPA to obtain sufficient experience to enable it to take
direct control of the TOC's operations.



ANNEX b
Page 1
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Project Details
A.   Dredging (Map No. 10382R3)
1.        The dredging to be undertaken is to provide access to the proposed
extension of the container berths provided under the First Port Project. Under
the First Port Project, a channel and turning basin is being dredged to the
container berths at the Composite Pier with a depth of 12.5 m. 1/ The proposed
dredging will extend the turning space and alongside depth to service 3the ex-
tension. The quantity to be dredged is estimated to be 1.5 million m . Final
quantities will be determined following detailed hydrographic and other sur-
veys during the preparation of detailed engineering by consultants.
2.        Removal by dredging of a further 243,000 m  of unsuitable soil and
weak foundation material, from the area behind the face of the extended pier,
will also be undertaken. Suitable fill requirsd for full reclamation of the
project area, is estimated to be 3.2 million m . Final quantities will be
determined following detailed soil investigations and other surveys during
the preparation of detailed engineering by consultants.
3.        Dredged material will be disposed of at selected dumping areas in
deep water some 10 km out to sea.
B.   Container Berths Extension (Map No. 12506)
2
4.        The reclaimed area2will total some 350,000 m , of which the wharf
apron will comprise 15,000 m . There will be 700 m of container ship berths
with 12.5 m water depth alongside, which will cater for the following types
of container vessels:
1/   All water depths given are below LWOST.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Type of Ship                 Feeder Services             Liner Services
(200 TEU /a) (600 TEU)   (1000 TEU)  (2000 TEU)
Length )                        90        180           210           265
Draft  )  in meters              6         9             10             12
No. of Ship Berths /b            6         3            2+ /c            2
(allowing 25 m clear-
ance between ships)
/a   TEU = Twenty-foot Equivalent Units
/b   The maximum number of ships of each size which could be berthed simul-
taneously. In practice, some combination of the various size groups
is likely.
/c   = 2 Liners plus 1 Feeder Service Vessel.
5.        The proposed wharf extension will be similar in construction to that
under the First Port Project, and will consist of a reinforced concrete open
wharf apron 22 m wide, supported on precast concrete piles. A stone faced re-
taining dike placed behind the wharf apron, together with precast prestressed
sheet piles, will contain the fill. Selected fill material will be consoli-
dated for the landward reclamation. Detailed soil borings over the project
area will provide the necessary criteria for final design and detailed en-
gineering. The extent of special drainage techniques required, together with
surcharging, to ensure uniform and adequate consolidation for container stor-
age will be determined following this work. Any surplus fill from surcharging
will be removed to a triangular area north of the extension behind a sea wall,
providing additional unsurfaced land for future use. The work will be under-
taken by competent engineering consultants to be appointed by the Government
and agreed to by the Bank.
6.        The proposed wharf extension will create a rectangular water area
at the mouth of a river which enters the harbor at the northeast corner of
the proposed works. The Government proposes to dredge a settling basin at
this location designed to trap most of the estimated annual 50,000 m of
silt, sand and debris entering the harbor area, and reduce the required main-
tenance dredging. The cost of providing the settling basin is included in
the project costs.
7.        The reclaimed area will be paved and will have adequate rail tracks
and access roads. A container freight station (8,000 m ) for stuffing and
unstuffing containers will be provided together with administration and Customs
buildings, ancillary buildings and services.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
8.        Four 40-ton container gantry cranes will be provided on tracks con-
tiguous with those presently laid under the First Port Project. All the con-
tainer cranes will therefore be able to move anywhere over the total 1,300 m
container berths.
C.   Equipment and Floating Craft
9.        Container-handling equipment to be procured will be as follows:
(a) 10 transtainers;
(b) 24 tractors and 72 trailers; and
(c) 10 truck scales
10.       For the berthing of container ships two tugboats of 3,000 hp capa-
city will be provided to augment the existing fleet.
D. Rehabilitation Work
11.       Rehabilitation works are proposed on Piers 3 and 4, the central
wharf and lighter wharf No. 5. They consist largely of paving improvements,
installation of electric lighting and water supply. When the new military
pier (Pier 8), currently being built by the Government, is completed, the
sections of Pier 3, the central wharf and Pier 4 presently in military use
will be relinquished to BDMPA.
December 1976



ANNEX 7
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Traffic Forecast
1.        Available statistics of cargo movements through Busan port provide
an unsatisfactory basis for projections. This is particularly true for move-
ments of general cargo, the key commodity from the point of view of the pro-
posed project. For example, inbound general cargo in 1974 rose 56% above
1973 to 3.5 million revenue tons, and outbound, at 3.8 million tons, was
52% higher (Table 6). In 1975, on the other hand, inbound general cargo
fell 18% to 2.9 million tons while outbound rose a further 14% to 4.3 mil-
lion tons. The average annual growth rate in the period 1973-76 was 14%
for inbound general cargo and 28% for outbound general cargo.
2.        Unidentified general cargo (designated "other general cargo" in
Table 6) is forecast to grow from 2.1 million tons inbound in 1977 to 4.2
million tons in 1986, an 8% annual growth, which is in line with GNP growth;
and from 3.7 million tons outbound in 1977 to 4.9 million tons in 1986, a
3% annual growth. The discrepancy between this 3% growth and the 11% overall
annual growth in exports is explained largely by the fact that the greater
part of the expected growth in exports will be handled at ports other than
Busan.
3.        The principal identified types of general cargo are textiles,
machinery and metal products, and plywood. Inbound and outbound textiles are
forecast to increase at about 5% p. a., while machinery and metal products are
projected at about 3% p.a. inbound and about 12% outbound. The latter figure
reflects the development of export-oriented industry in southeast Korea, par-
ticularly at the large industrial complex of Changweon. Plywood exports are
expected to reach about one million tons p.a. by 1979 and remain fairly stable
thereafter, as a result of growing competition in world markets from timber-
producing countries.
4.        Other identified types of general cargo are fertilizer, wood pulp
and dry chemicals. Fertilizer imports are expected to be phased out by 1980
as a result of growing domestic production. Wood pulp imports are expected
to decline between 1978 and 1984 as a result of the start-up of a chemical
wood pulp plant at Onsan in 1978. Similarly, imports of dry chemicals are
expected to increase only slowly through 1981, and then to decline as a result
of increasing domestic production.
December 1976



ANNEX 8
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Valuation of Existing Assets
1.        A KMPA working party revalued the existing assets at Busan as at
December 31, 1974 on the basis of the then current land values and construc-
tion costs with appropriate allowances for age and condition. The valuations
appear to be reasonable, and have been accepted pending a report by profes-
sional accountants.
Depreciation
2.        The current depreciation charges on the existing port assets are
probably too low owing to the application by KMPA accountants of invalid
principles in making the necessary calculations. The Bank has requested
that the basis of the charges should be investigated by Korean professional
accountants, but the KMPA figures have been used for the purposes of the
present financial estimates. When the First Port Project is completed in
1978 the charges for depreciation of the assets now in use will be dwarfed
by depreciation charges on the new ones, and it would make little difference
to the estimates if present charges were increased by 50% or even doubled.
3.        Depreciation charges on the new assets in the First and Second
Port Projects have been based on the following amortization rates:
Civil works on piers and wharves       3% p.a. on cost
Bulk handling equipment               10% p.a. on cost
Container-handling equipment          10% p.a. on cost
Container chassis                     15% p.a. on cost
Tugboats                               5% p.a. on cost
Pier No. 3 (transferred                5% p.a. on cost estimated
from military use)                     value in 1978.
4.        The rate of 3% used for the civil works is a composite one based
on 2 1/2% for the main structure and higher rates for items such as paving
and sheds with shorter lives than the piers and wharves themselves.
December 1976



ANNEX 9
Page 1
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
General
1.        It has been assumed that KMPA's financial autonomy under Law 928 will
be increased on January 1, 1979, and that the equity of the BDMPA will be held
by it on behalf of the Government.
2.        It has further been assumed that the Government will provide KMPA
with cash resources sufficient to enable it to make cash grants to BDMPA equal
to its cash deficit in 1977 and 1978. These grants, which include adequate
cash working capital as at January 1, 1979, are treated as equity contribu-
tions to BDMPA.
3.        In the estimates, BDMPA cash funds are shown as accumulating from
year to year; the disposal of the cash funds in practice will be a policy
matter to be decided by KMPA from time to time in the light of the needs of
the Authority as a whole and any eventual requirement for the payment of
dividend or interest on Government-owned capital.
Transfer of Assets from Work in Progress
4.        It has been assumed that assets covered by the First and Second Port
Projects will come into use as shown below; the estimated book costs of the
relevant assets have been transferred from work in progress to "other fixed
assets" accordingly.
First Port Project                 Date of First Use
Pier No. 1                          January 1, 1978
Coastal Ferry                       January 1, 1978
Composite Pier                      January 1, 1978
Pier No. 2                          July 1, 1978
Pier No. 7                          July 1, 1978
Second Port Project
Tugboats                            July 1, 1978
Rehabilitation of Pier 1            July 1, 1980
Container Terminal and
Steel Scrap Wharves              January 1, 1981



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Government-owned Assets
5.        It has been assumed that Pier No. 3 (at present in military use by
the Government pending completion of a new military wharf) will be transferred
to BDMPA on January 1, 1978. This pier was valued at Won 2,930 million in
1972: its value at date of transfer is taken as Won 6,000 million in the
light of movements in the IMF consumer prices index for Korea up to the end
of 1975 and the rates of inflation assumed throughout the estimates from
1975 onward. The sum in question was credited to the Government's equity
in BDMPA.
Monetary Inflation
6.        It has been assumed throughout the estimates that the local currency
price in Won of goods in general will increase according to the scale shown
below:
Price Index
Year           Price Increase            (1976 = 100)
1977                12%                      112
1978                12%                      125
1979                12%                      140
1980                10%                      154
1981                10%                      170
1982                10%                      187
1983                10%                      207
Loans from IBRD and Saudi Fund for Development
7.        It has been assumed that for accounting purposes disbursements from
the IBRD and Saudi Funds loans made for Busan assets or consultancy services
financed under the First or Second Port projects are liabilities of BDMPA
subject to the same terms as those applicable to the Government. Disbursements
for general consultancy services concerning all KMPA ports have been excluded
as being a direct liability of KMPA Headquarters, as have disbursements for
assets and services connected with Mugho.
Revenue Forecasts
8.        The revenue forecasts for 1976 are based on the cash revenues re-
ceived during the first nine months and the increase in port traffic expected
during the last quarter; port charges were increased in November 1975, and
again in March 1977. Forecasts for the years 1978-82 inclusive are based on
expected volumes of shipping and cargo passing through the ports and 1977
tariffs, increased by an overall 15% on July 1, 1978, and a further 20% on
July 1, 1981, to offset cost increases arising from price inflation. Ship-
based tariffs were applied to estimates of Gross Registered Tonnage (GRT) made
in the light of the traffic recorded through the port in 1973, 1974 and 1975,



ANNEX 9
Page 3
and of the cash revenues from ship charges in 1976. Cargo-based revenues
were based on the forecast volumes of cargoes of various types, and the port
tariffs currently in force. The revenues from tuggage and the use of cranes,
which are time-based, were assumed to increase in proportion to the GRT of
shipping using the port, as were miscellaneous revenues.
9.        In order to forecast cash receipts for port revenues, estimates
had to be made of the charges due but uncollected at each year-end. KMPA
has agreed to have this matter investigated by a qualified accountant since
no accruals are at present made and no factual basis for making estimates
is available. The conservative assumption was made for purposes of the
pe-sent forecasts that 3 1/2 days revenue is outstanding on transit shed and
open cargo area charges, 3 days on dockage, 1 1/2 days on other ship-based
dues, and 1/2 day on wharfage. Applied to the detailed revenue estimates for
1976 and 1985, these assumptions gave outstandings in each case of 1/2 of 1%
of annual revenue; this percentage was thereafter used throughout in esti-
mating revenue outstandings. Year end accruals in respect of charges against
TOC's are assumed to approximate to one month's revenue.
10.       To enable BDMPA to achieve a reasonable rate of return on the use
of the assets provided by the projects, it has been assumed that a charge
against TOCs will be levied on July 1, 1978, equivalent to US$58 per con-
tainer, rising to US$68 on July 1, 1981. This charge is sufficient to recoup
BDMPA's asset maintenance, depreciation and interest charges and provide an
adequate return on the assets in use. In practice, the charge will be imposed
selectively with regard to the cost of wharf facilities and mechanical equip-
ment used for each type of cargo, i.e., bulk, containers and break bulk.
11.       The revenue estimates presented in the Profit and Loss Accounts
(Table 9) therefore, set out the additional revenues required to bring in
an adequate cash flow without further Government assistance beyond 1978, and
to provide adequate coverage of the debt service and repayments from net
revenues, realistic depreciation charges, and an overall net operating return
of at least 7% p.a. on net fixed assets in use from January 1, 1978 onwards.
Operating Costs
12.       In estimating annual operating costs for the years 1977-82, separate
estimates were made at 1976 prices for the labor content and for brought-in
supplies and services. The resulting estimates were then increased by apply-
ing separate factors for the expected development of wage rates and general
prices respectively.
13.       The general price indices used provide for a 12% increase in Won
prices in 1977 over 1976; 12% increases in 1978 and 1979; and increases at
the rate of 10% p.a., thereafter.
14.       Wage rate indices were constructed by assuming a general increase
in real wages at a rate of 4 1/2% p.a., (a rate which compares with an aver-
age annual rate of increase of 4.9% between the first quarters of 1972 and



ANNEX 9
Page 4
1975 according to statistics for South Korea published by the IMF). Because
KMPA staff wages and salaries are based on the scales applying to Government
employees, they are very low by comparison with those current in private
employment.  It is understood that it is the policy of the Korean Government
to close this differential substantially in the course of the next few years.
It has been assumed, therefore, that KMPA staff will receive special additions
of 7 1/2% p.a. to their wages in each of the years 1977-80 inclusive, over
and above the 4 1/2% expected general increase in real wages.
15.       It has been assumed that, from 1977 onwards, the provision of navi-
gational aids for the port will be undertaken by KMPA instead of BDMPA.
16.       Maintenance costs are at present very low for a port as extensive
as Busan. Repairs and rehabilitation were neglected until major reconstruc-
tion became necessary. When the new and rehabilitated assets covered by the
First Port Project become operational a major increase in maintenance activity
will be needed, with a second large increase later when the Second Port Proj-
ect is completed. An important part of both projects consists of modern bulk-
cargo handling and container handling equipment, and it is essential that
specialized repair and maintenance services should be set up for the very
expensive equipment concerned. It has been assumed that by 1982 a labor
force of 130 men will be required on maintenance work, and that at 1975 prices
brought-in supplies and services will cost 200% of the wage and salary bill.
The resulting overall cost estimates were tested against the rule-of-thumb
that good maintenance can cost up to 1 1/2% of the capital cost of civil
works and 2 1/2% of the cost of mechanical equipment; by this criterion
the cost estimates are still rather low, though they probably represent
the maximum effort which will be within the technical and administrative
competence of the BDMPA until there has been an extensive training program.
17.       Administration costs in real terms will also have to increase very
substantially over the next five years if the new port facilities are to be
run in an efficient manner. Provision has been made in the estimates for a
counterpart staff of 75 employees to control the cargo handling activity from
1978 onwards, when the assets in the First Port Project become operational
and the present stevedoring companies are merged in a single corporation
working under the operational control of the BDMPA. By 1978 the financial
and accounting staff will have to be expanded by at least 20 employees.
Senior members of the accounting staff will have to be more highly qualified
than any at present available if the quality of financial and management
accounting is to be raised to an adequate level, and better paid than existing
staff. The provision of continuous data and cost accounts by profit center
is essential for both efficiency and the establishment of sound cost-based
revenue tariffs.
18.       It has been assumed in the estimates that from 1980 onward a staff
of 20 will be required to man the computer which is planned for container
control. Allowance has also been made for successive increases of 10% in
the general administrative staff at BDPA Headquarters in 1979 and 1981.
March 1977



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Busan Port Capital Investment Program 1976-82
(USS '000)
Expenditure                                                        1976-81
Prior to 76      1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    Total          1982
First Port Project               16,400       43,100  78,300  27,400   2,100        -        -    150,900       -
Second Port Project                 -            -      2,000  15,200  23,000  36,300  35,400  111,900          -
Minor Capital Expenditures           -           -      1,000   2,000   1,000   1,000   1,500    6,500    2,000
Total                             16,400      43,100  81,300  44,600  26,100  37,300  36,900  269,300    2,000
Source: Bank Staff
March 1977.
1>
H



TABLE 2
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Estimated Costs
Won Million                     uS$'000
Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total
A. Civil Works
1. Container Berth Extension
(i)  Dredging approach to the extelded container pier,
and disposal of 1.5 million m of dredged
material 10 km to sea; and dredging to 12.5 m
at the pier face.                                                486      619    1,105        1,000    1,280      2,280
(ii) 700 m container berth extension; providing an area
of 350,000 m2, complete with paving, drainage, fencing,
crane rails, rail sidings, freight station, buildings,
ancillary facilities, etc.                                     8,460   10,350   18,810       17,440   21,340    38,780
Subtotal                                                       8,946   10,969   19,915       18,440   22,620    41,060
2. Rehabilitation Work
(i)  Piers 3 and 4                                                    598       731    1,329       1,230    1,510      2,740
(ii)  Central Wharf                                                    216       266      482         450       550     1,000
(iii)  Lighter Wharf No. 5                                              144       176       320        300       360        660
Subtotal                                                         958    1,173    2,131        1,980    2,420      4,400
Total Civil Works                                              9,904   12,142   22,046       20,420   25,040    45,460
B. Mechanical Equipment and Floating Craft
1. Container Handling
(i)  10 truck scales                                                    9        70       79          20       140       160
(ii)  4-40 ton container cranes                                        345    2,797    3,142          710    5,770      6,480
(iii)  10-40 ton transtainers                                           369    2,983    3,352          760    6,150      6,910
(iv)  tractors and trailers for 20 ft and 40 ft containers              68       560      628         140    1,160      1,300
2.  2-3,000 hp tugboats                                                   263    2,126    2,389          540    4,380       4,920
Total Mechanical Equipment and Floating Craft                  1,054    8,536    9,590        2,170   17,600    19,770
C. Engineering Consultant Services
1.  Preparation of detailed engineering work up to award of
contracts. (Preparation of detailed designs, specifi-
cations, bid documents for all civil works, equipment
and floating craft, including inspection services).                   339    1,140    1,479          700    2,350      3,050
2.  Supervision of civil works construction, fleating craft
construction, equipment installation and tests after
delivery and installation.                                            242       800    1,042         500    1,650      2,150
Total Engineering Consultant Services                            581    1,940    2,521       1,200    4,000       5,200
D.  Technical Assistance and Training                                          150      582       732        310    1,200      1,510
Base Cost Estimate                                                     11,689   23,200   34,889       24,100   47,840    71,940
Physical Contingencies                                                  1,485    1,821    3,306        3,060    3,750      6,810
Price Contingencies                                                     5,060    8,928   13,988       10,435   18,410    28,845
Total                                                        18,234   33,949   52,183       37,595   70,000   107,595
E.  Add Customs Duties on "B"                                               2,100       -       2,100      4,330       -       4,330
PROJECT GRAND TOTALS                                                   20,334   33,949   54,283       41,925   70,000   111,925
Source: Government, Consultants and Bank Staff
March 1977



TABLE 3
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Proposed Grouping of Contracts
1. Civil Engineering Contracts
A. Dredging
B. Pier 6 - Container Berth Extension - Rough Grading
C. Pier 6 - Container Berth Extension - Final Works
2. Mechanical Procurement Contract
- Container Cranes and Container handling equipment-
3. Floating Craft Procurement Contract
- Tugboats
1/ This contract will be based on the equipment described in the project
but bidders will be allowed to propose alternative methods of handling
containers in the stacking area.



TABLE 4
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Annual Estimated Project Expenditure
Calendar Year               Expenditure in            Expenditure in
Foreign Currency         Local Currency
(US$'ON"                 (Won million)
1977                               2,200                      340
1978                             10,000                     2,888
1979                             13,400                     4,948
1980                              24,500                    6,054
1981                             19,900                     6,104
TOTALS                 70,000                   20,334
Source: Bank Staff
March 1977.



TABLE 5
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$' 000)
Cumulative
Bank Fiscal Year      Quarter      Amount Disbursed       Annual       Total
1977                3               _
4             700                 700         700
1978                1             750
2             750
3          1,000
4          2,500                5,000       5,700
1979                1           3,200
2          3,300
3          3,300
4          3,300               13,100      18,,800
1980                1           3,400
2          3,400
3          4,500
4          6,000               17,300      36,100
1981                1           7,500
2          6,500
3          6,200
4           5,500              25,700      61,800
1982                1           4,800
2            400                5,200      67,000
Source: Bank Staff
March 1977.



KOREA
TABLE 6
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Busan Port Traffic - 1973.d2
( 000 Revenue Tans)
Actual               Est.                                         -ro-ec-----
1973     1974      1975      19E6      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
lINsOuD
GCa-i                                            1,085       702       977    1,002    1,0A2    1,018        1,127    1,172    1,219    1,268    1,318         1,371    1,426      1,483
ITron, Steel & Scap                              1,040       869       910    1,358    1,345       1,332    1,319    1,305       1,292     1,324     1,357     1,391     1,426     1,461
Coal            cr                                 425       714       925       978    1,030    1,084    1,142    1,202    1,266    1,306           1,348    1,391    1,436    1,482
Tiker-                                           1,965     1,397    2,120    2,313       2,406    2 502    2,602       2,706    2,814    2,828    2.842    2,856    2.871    2,885
Cenent                                             590       702     1,137     1,131    1,236      1,351    1,477      1,614    1,764    1,866       1,975    2,089    2,210    2,338
Other DryBullk                                      17       14        12S       103        95        87        80        80        80        80        80        80        80        80
Total Dry Bulk                                   5,242    4,524    6,194    6,886    7,154    7,440    7,747    8,079    8,435    8,672    8,920    9,178   -9ZZV    9,729
Crude Perroleum-  2/                               250       377       297       234       250       268       287       307       328       351       376       402       430       460
Petroleut Products -                             1,853    1,795    1,555    2,119    2,373    2,658    2,977    3,334    3,734    4,183    4,684    5,247    5,876    6,581
Other Bulk Liquids                                 l54       246       213       179       207       234       260       287       315       327       339       351       363       455
Total Bulk Liquids                               2,257      ,418    2,065    2,532    2,83           160    3,1524    3,928    4,377    4861    5,399    6,000            ,669    796
F-rtili-en                                          -         51       165        42        32        24        16         8                 -         -         -         -         -
W-od Pulp                                           160       146       173      199        179       159      139       119       100       110        125      135       145       160
Tentiles                                           200       180       208       235       248       261       273       286       299       314       330       345       360       375
Macbhi-o   and Metal Products                      285       227       281       334       347       359       372       384       397       409       420       430       445       460
Dry Chenicalr                                      348       258       258       257       260       262       265       267       270       250       230       210       190       165
(ther General Cargo                              1.283    2.681    1,820        _956          2,112    2,281    2,     2,661    2,874    3,104    3,352    3,620    3,910    4,223
TctsI G-n-crl Cargo                              2,276    3,543    2,905    3,023    3,178    3,346    3,529    3,723     3,940    4,187             4,457    4740    5,050    5383
TOTAL IMPORTS                                      9,775   10,485   11,164   12,441   13,162   13,946   14,800   15,732   16,752   17,720   18,776    19,920   21,168   22,608
Fercentage of Guenral Cargo Containerized         23.47    30.57,    36.87,    43.8%    45.0%    47.0%    50.0%    52.0%    54.07%    56.0%    58.07            60.0%    60.07,    60.0%
Coatainer-e-d G-eeral Cargo ('000 tans)            533    1,080      1,068    1,323      1,430    1,573    1,765    1,937    2,128    2,345    2,585           2,844    3,030    3,230
To.n p-r Co-taioer                                 n.a.     18.0      18.9      19.1      19.0      19.0      19.0      19.0      19.0      19.0      19.0      19.0      19.0      19.0
Nuober of Containers (Full)                        0.0.   59,932   56,544   69,234   75,263   82,769   92,895  101,947  112,000  123,421  136,053  149,684  159.474  170,000
Numbbr of Co-taioers (Etmpty)                       .     23 000   25,739   3b876 6     36884   33_ 10   33_834   35  657   37,016   37,303   36,894   35,929   32,078   27,579
TOTAL CONTATNERS                                  45,095   82,932   82,283  108,000  112,147  116,379  126,729  137,604  149,016  160,724  172,947  185,613  191,552  197,579
OItTBO17NlD
Comnto                                              365      380       558       621       579       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200
Orr- aod Minerals                                   255      341       358       318       328       337       347       358       369       380       391       403       415       427
Scrap Metal and Steol                              375       467       425       579       616       655       697       742       790       781       773       764       756       747
Other Dry Bulk                                        8         4         1-                         -         -                   -         -         -         -         -         -
Total Dry Bulk      2/                           1,003    1,192      1,342     1,518    1,523      1,092     1,244    1,300    1,359       1,361     1,364     1,367     1,371    1,374
PrtroIcon Products                                  50        52        18        15        10         5       -         -         -         -         -         _         _         -
Total Liquid Bulk                                    50       52         18       15        10         5       -
Plywood                                            645       442       656       948       967       986    1,006    1,026    1,047    1,050         1,050    1,050    1,050    1,030
Tertiles                                            265      249       279       309       327       345       364       382       400       422       445       467       490       512
Mets1 Products and Moobluery                        150       185      210       234       285       336       387       438       489       545       601       655       711       767
Othor  General Cargo                             1,437    2,918    3,190    3_639    3_748    3,861   3,976    4_096    4,219              ;,345   4.476    4610    4.74          4.891
Total General Cargo                              2,497    3,794    4,335    5,130    5,327    5,528    5,733    5,942    6,155    6,362    6,572    6,782    6,999    7,220
TOTAL OUTBOUND                                     3,550    5,038    5,695    6,663    6,860    6,725    6,977    7,242    7,514    7,723    7,936    8,149    8,370    8,594
Percentage of Generel Cargo Containerized         16.17.    45.5%    38.4%    40.07,    40.0%    50.0%h   42.03,    44.0%    46.1%    48.0%^   50.0%    S2.05h    30.0%    52.02f1
Co-tainerized General Cargo ('000 taos)            409    1,725    1,665    2,052    2,131    2,211    2,408    2,614    2,831    3,054    3,286    3,527    3,639    3,754
Revenue Ton  per Container                        n.a.      21.8      18.3      19.0      19.0      19.0      09.0      19.0      19.0     19.0      19.0      19.0      19.0      19.0
Number of Containers (Fu11)                       na.   72,118   88,509  108,000  112.147  116,379  126,729  137,604  149,016  160,724  172,947  185,613  191,552  197,579
Number of Cootainera (Empty)                      n.a.    7000    2336           -
TOTAL CONTAINERS                                   37,110   79,118   90,845  108,000  112,147  116,379  126,729  137,604  149,016  160,725  172,947  185,613  191,552  197,579
1/ Haudled in the strean
2/ Handled over private part facilities
Source    MPA
Tr-ns-Asia Group
Bask Staff
Augnst 1976



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(US$'000)
E c o n o m i c      Benefi tts
Economic        Ship             Container Yard 2/           Transport Cost  3/
Year      Cost      Waiting Time-/       Cost Eliminated-       On Incheon Containers-             Total
1977      1,300
1978      9,900
1979     14,800
1980     23,500
1981     19,700         1,278                 4,292                       1,818                     7,388
1982                    1,666                 4,629                       1,961                     8,256
1983                    2,328                 4,981                       2,110                     9,419
1984                    3,490                 5,346                       2,264                    11,100
1985                    9,716                 5,517                       2,337                    17,570
1986                   10,000                 5,690                       2,410                    18,100
1987                   10,000                 5,861                       2,482                    18,343
1988                   10,000                 6,036                       2,557                    18,593
1989                   10,000                 6,218                       2,633                    18,851
1990                   10,000                 6,404                       2,712                    19,116
1991                   10,000                 6,596                       2,794                    19,390
1992                   10,000                 6,794                       2,878                    19,672
1993                   10,000                 6,998                       2,964                    19,962
1994                   10,000                 7,208                       3,053                     20,261
1995                   10,000                 7,424                       3,145                     20,569
1996                   10,000                 7,647                       3,239                     20,886
1997                   10,000                 7,876                       3,336                     21,212
1998                   10,000                 8,112                       3,436                     21,548
1999                   10,000                 8,356                       3,539                     21,895
2000                   10,000                 8,607                       3,645                     22,252
Total Economic Cost   69,200                                                     Return             17%
Items Omitted
- Price Contingencies 28,800
- Taxes and Duty       12,400           1/ Taken at US$3,500 per ship-day.
- Technical Assistance 1,530            2/ Cost of transporting containers to container yards and double-handling.
Taken at US$48 per container.
Total Project Cost   111,900            3/ Additional cost of transport on Seoul containers routed via Incheon.   -
Taken at US$12.20 per container.                                            r
m
Source:  Bank Staff                                                                                                     <
March 1977



TABLE 8
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Port of Busan - Cash Revenue and Expenditure 1973-75
(Won Millions)
1973       1974      1975
1.     Operating Revenues (Cash Basis)
Port Dues                                                   373         289       240
Anchorage                                                    -           -         42
Light Dues                                                  106          82        71
Tuggage                                                     191         228      216
Dockage                                                     172         553       653
Wharfage                                                     -          551       700
Transit Shed Charges                                         81          83        50
Open Cargo Area Charges                                     119         118      132
Floating Cranes                                              45          39        41
Rental of Facilities                                         41           6         6
Water Supply                                                  2           2         2
Miscellaneous Revenue                                        73          56        75
Total Operating Revenues              1,203       29007    2,228
2.      Operating Expenses (Cash Basis)
Navigational Aids                                            14         151        186
Maintenance                                                 139         212        160
Port Administration & Miscellaneous                         163         128        156
316        491        502
Depreciation                                                640         519        433
Total Operating Expenses                 956      1,010        935
3.      Net Operating Cash Revenue                                  247         997      1,293
Interest & Commitment Charges                               144         334        394
(Accrued Basis)
Net Income                               103         663       899
Operating Ratio                                              79          50         42
Operating Return on Average Net Fixed Assets In Use         4.5%        4.7%       6.0%
Source: Bank Staff
October 1976



TABLE 9
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Port of Busan - Profit and Loss Account 1975-82
(Won Millions)
(Actual)  (Est)------------------- (Forecast) ----------------
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Operating Revenues
Port Dues                                                   240      555     672      738      782      829     886      930
Anchorage                                                    42      674     818      880      915      952   1,000   1,040
Light Dues                                                   71       -       -        -        -       -        -        -
Tuggage                                                     216      220     254      279      295     310      331      348
Dockage                                                     653      716     993   1,074   1,117   1,173   1,231   1,292
Wharfage                                                     700   1,218   1,474   1,585   1,680   1,764   1,870   1,982
Transit Sheds                                                 50      50       52       54      57       60      65       68
Open Cargo Areas                                             132     180      189      196     210      220     233      245
Floating Cranes                                              41       50       60      63       67       71      75       79
Rental of Facilities                                           6      30       30       30      30       30       30      30
Water Supplies                                                 2       6        7        8       8        9        9      10
Sundry Income                                                 75     150     159      168      178      188     200      210
Total Operating Revenues                                  2,228   3,849   4,708   5,075   5,339   5,606   5,930   6,234
Tariff Increases:
assuming overall 15% July 1, 1978 and 20% July 1,1981                                 380      801      841   1,572   2,369
Revenue from Terminal Operating Companies                                             3,274   7,130   7,741   9.106  10.601
Total Operating Revenues                                     2,228   3,849   4,708   8,729  13,270  14,188  16,608  19,204
Operating Expenses
Navigational Aids                                            186      -        _        -       -        -        -       -
Maintenance                                                  160     224      240      531      664     885      996   1,040
Port Administration                                          156     102      193     319      337      368      387     387
Total Working Expenses                                       502      86       33      850   1,001   1,253   1,383   1,427
Add Allowances for Price Inflation                           -                 52      212     400      677      968   1.241
Adjusted Total Working Expenses                              502     386      485   1,062   1,401   1,930   2,351   2,668
Depreciation                                                 433     443      448   2,957   4,492   4,849   5,225   5,930
Total Operating Expenses                                       935      829     933   4,019   5,893   6,779   7,576   8,598
Net Operating Revenue                                        1,293   3,020   3,775   4,710   7,377   7,409   9,032  10,606
Interest and Commitment Charges - Long Term Debt               294     832   2 056   3,158   3,77    4,363   4,740   4,559
Net IncOme      -                                              899   2,188    1,719   1,552   3,602   3,046   4,292   6,047
Ratios
Operating Ratio                                             42      21       20       46      44       48       46       45
Times Interest Earned                                        3.3      3.6      1.8     1.5      1.9     1.7      1.9    2.3
Debts Service Coverage                                       4.4     4.1       2.0     2.1      2.6     1.9       1.5    1.8
Rate of Return on Average Net Fixed Assets in Use            6.1    14.4    18.2       7.8      7.6     7.7      7.8    7.9
Source: Busan Port and Bank Staff
March 1977.



TABLE 10
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Port of Busan - Balance Sheet at December 31, 1975-82
(Won millions)
(Actual)  (Est.)    ------------------ (Forecast) --------------------
1975      1976      1977      1978      1979       1980      1981      1982
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                                          nil       nil       nil        1,600    3,329    2,806    3,383    4,533
Accounts Receivable                                               11        18        37       656       674       694       912        930
Stores                                                        nil          11         13        31        43        58        74         82
Total Current Assets                                              11       29         50    2,287      4,046    3,558    4,369        5,545
Fixed Assets
Gross Value Land (as revalued Dec. 12, 1974)                  7,916     7,916    7,916      7,916    7,916    7,916    7,916         7,916
Gross Value Other Fixed Assets (at valuation
Dec. 31, 1974 plus additional at cost)                     13,676   13,676   14,161   95,347   96,414  100,613  i46,078  151,048
Accumulated Depreciation                                        433       876    1,324    4,281    8,773   13,622   18,847   24,777
Net Value Other Assets in Use                                13,243   12,800   12,837   91,066   87,641   86,991  127,231  126,271
Total Net Fixed Assets in Use                                21,159   20,716   20,753   98,982   95,557   94,907  135,147  134,187
Work-in-Progress                                             11,758   28,675   60,021    4           17,0       29,918      -        -
Total Fixed Assets                                           32,917   49,391   80,774  103,851  112,558  124,825  135,147  134,187
TOTAL ASSETS                                                   32,928   49,420   80,824  106,138  116,604  128,383  139,516  139,732
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable: Capital Goods                                 464    1,257    2,181    1,017    1,270    1,983    2,423               81
Port Operations                             -          15        16        32         42        56        69        78
Interest on Loans                           227       524    1,185      1,680    1,951    2,266    2,407    2,309
Total Current Liabilities                                       691    1,796    3,382        2,729     3,263    4,305      4,899    2,468
Loans Outstanding
IBRD-First Port Project                                       3,895   11,680   26,176   32,684   32,636   31,752   30,802   29,784
IBRD-Second Port Project                                        -         -         627    4,180   10,493   20,204   28,538   27,293
Saudi Fund for Development-First Port Project                   -         2,431   10,160   13,838   13,903   12,767   11,630   10,493
Total Loans                                                   3,895   14,111   36,963   50,702   57,032   64,723   70,970   67,570
Equity
Capital at January 1, 1975                                   22,936   22,936   22,936   22,936   22,936   22,936   22,936   22,936
Accumulated Retained Earnings                                   899    3,087    4,805       6,358    9,960   13,006   17,298   23,345
Accumulated Government Cash Grants                            4,507    7,490   12,737   17,413   17,413   17,413   17,413   17,413
Assets brought in by Government                             ___                    _        6,000                6,000    6,000
Total Equity at End of Year                                  28,342   33,513   40,479   52,707   56,309   59,355   63,647   69,694
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                                   32,928   49,420   80,824  106,138  116,604  128,383  139,516  139,732
Current/Liquid Ratio  -/                                         N/A       N/A       N/A         1.1       1.6       1.2       1.3       2.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                                               12/88    30/70    48/52    49/51    50/50    52/48    53/47            49/51
1/ Excluding 63% of capital goods accounts payable, this proportion being payable from loan funds.
Source: Busan Port and Bank Staff
March 1977,



KOREA                                                    TABLE 11
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
.ort of Busan - Cash Flows for the Years 1975-1982
(Won Millions)
Actual   (Est.)  ----------------- Forecast -------------------   Total
1975     1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982   1975-82
I. Cash Requirements
1. Capital Investments
(i)  First Port Project          9,403   18,917  31,380  10,670       582      -       -        -      70,952
(ii)  Second Port Project           -         -       966   7,394  11,132  17,6i  13X,820   3,eoo    53,943
(iii)  Other                         345       -       485      970     485      485     727      970     4.467
Total Investments            9,748   18,917  32,831  19,034  12,199  18.116  14,547   3,970   129,362
2. Debt Service
(i)  Interest and Commitment       394       832   2,056   3,158   3,775   4,363   4,740   4,559    23,877
Charges
(ii)  Repayments                   _                  - _      390     821   2,020  4,490  _4L6Q    L2_281
Total Debt Service             394       832   2,056   3,548   4.596        6,383  9,230   9,119    36,158
3.  Increase in Working Capital        (680)  (3,087) (2,565)  2,290       496  (2,007)    640   3,457   (1L456)
(Decrease)
4.  Total Cash Required               9,462   16,_662  32.322  24,872  17291  22,492  24,417  16.546 J6h,064
II. Cash Available
1. Internally Generated:
(i)  Net Operating Revenue       1,293    3,020   3,775   4,710   7,377   7,409   9,032  10,606   47,222
(ii)  Depreciation                  433       443     448   2,957   4,492   4,849   5,225   5,930   24,7;7
Total                        1,726    3,463   4-223   7,667  11,869  12,258  14,257  16,536   71,999
2.  Government Grants:               4,507    2,983   5,247   4,676    -          -       -        -      17,413
(Deficit on Cash Account)
3. Loans:
(i)  IBRD                        3,229    7,785  15,123  10,451   7,086   9,711  10,737   1,160   65,282
(ii)  Saudi Fund for Development   -        2,431   7,729  _3,678       65      -       -       -    13.90.3
Total Loans                  3,229   10,216  22.852  14.129   7,151   9.711  10,737  1,160   79.185
4.  Cash at Beginning of Year           nil      nil      nil     nil   1,600   3,329   2,806  3.383       -
5.  Total Cash Available             9,462   16,662  32,322  26,472  20,620  25,298  27,800 21,079  168,597
6.  Cash at 8nd of Year                 nil      nil     nil   1,600   3,329   2,806   3,383  4,533    4,533
7.  Increase (decrease) in Cash         nil      nil     nil   1,600   1,729    (523)    577  1,150        -
During Period
Source: Bank Staff
M.arch t977.



TABLE 12
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Summary Cash Flow Data; Financial Plan 1975-82
(Won Millions)
Capital Investments                                   129,362       100
Internally Generated Cash                              71,999
Less  Debt Service                       36.158
Increase of Working Capital         3,077        39.235
Internal Cash - Available for Port
Investment                   32,764        25
Loans                                                  79,185        61
Government Grants                                      t7,413        14
129,362       100
Source: Bank Staff
March 1977.



KOR EA
SECOND PORT PROJECT
Design and Construction Schedule
YEAR         1977            1978             1979            1980             1981            1982
PROJECT-1-i                                                                                                                   m
QUARTER   1  2   3   4   1   2  34 1   2   3   4                    4| 1           2   3   43I |    2   3   4
BUSAN
1. Design, Construction Supervision, Major Port
Equipment Inspection and Installation
II. Port Construction:
1. Dredging                                                             m
2. Reclamation 
3. Container Berth Construction                                                          m                                       MEEK
4. Rehabilitation Works                                                                                                         * ME*
Ill. Procurement of Equipment and Tugs:
1. Tugboats    *
2. Container Handling Equipment                        _gg*g
LEGEND:
^          i   Engineering Services: Detailed Engineering, Design, and Services to Contract Award Stage
6~~^   Engineering Services: Construction Supervision and Equipment Inspection Services Until Completion of the Project
Construction Period and Period for Procurement and Installation of Equipment and Tugboats
* *  *  fl Guarantee Period (Period to make good defective work)
World Bank-16510



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
KOREA MARITIME AND PORT AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART
| DIRECTOR GENERAL 
PUBLIC INFORMATION              OVERSEAS RESIDENT OFFICER
OfFICER                  |LONDON. NEW YORK
DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL
1H3t
PLANNING & MANAGEMENT       DIRECTOR, MARINE TRANSPORT     DIRECTOR. HARBOR CONSTRUC-      DIRECTOR, BUSAN DISTRICT      DIRECTOR, INCHEON DISTRICT
OFFICER                     BUREAU                         TION BUREAU               E     PORT AUTHORITY                PORT AUTHORITY
PLANNING & BUDGET           L COASTAL SHIPPING DIV.         PLANNING DIV,
- (OFF,CE.R                                                _    GENERAL SERVICES DIV.            DEPUTY DIRECTOR
OCEAN-GOING SHIPPING DIV.     CONSTRUCTION DIV.
ADMINISTRATION MANAGE-
'AENT OFFICER                 VESSEL DIV.                    DREDGING DIV.
_ GENERAL SERVICES DIV.
LEGAL AFFAIRS OFFICER         OFFICER & CREW DIV.            EOUiPMENT DIV.                DIRECTOR, MARINE AFFAIRS
BUPEAU                       - MARINE AFFAIRS DIV.
ECONOMIC COOPERATION
OFFICER                      DIRECTOR, PORT MANAGE-                                                                      - VESSEL DIV.
MENT & OPERATION BUREAU                                      MARINE AFFAIRS DIV.
EL.ECTRO0NIC PROCESSING                                                                                                  -SEAMEN AFFAIRS DIV.
OFF IC ER                                                                            .   _ VESSEL DIV.
_ PORT      AN ENT DIV.                                                                       PORT AFFAIRS DIV.
-SEAMEN AFFAIRS DIV.
GENERAL SERVICES DIV.         PORT OPERATION DIV.                                                                       - FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING DIV.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT DIV.                             *       DIRECTOR,                    COMMUNICATION & SECURITY DIVO
-ACCOUNTING DIV.                                      * l 3BUREAU                         - NAVIGATION AIDS DIV
L   ~~~~~~~~-ADMINISTRATION DIV
11 INSPECTION OFfICER           C  OMMUNICATION 6 SECURITY                             . _PORT OPERATION DIV.             _AMNSRTO   I
DIV.                                                      J.CONSTRUCTION DIV
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING
DIV.                         - PLANNING h SURVEY DIV,
MERGENCY PLANNING                                                                         COMMUNICATION &                NCHEON PORT CONSTRUCTION
OFFICER                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~SECURITY DIV.  OFFICE
r  DIRECTOR. CONSTRUCTION    _ LOCK-GATE OPERATION OF-ICE
B , ,             _            3UREAU  GUNSAN PORT CONSTRUCTION
OFFICE
M-|   AUGHO DISTRICT PORT         ULSAN D AU OITSTRICT FORT    |           F ADMINISTRATION DIV.            MOGPO PORT CONSTRUCTION
AUTHORITY           * 7 AUTHORITY
~~~~~OFFICE
CONSTRUCTION OIV.
T_ SOGCHO PORr CON5TRUC-  ,YEOSU PORT CONSTRUCTION
|TON OFFICE O  C                  G                                           PLANNING & SURVEY DIV.         OFFICE
ION OFFICE         *    ~~~GUNSAN DISTRICT PORT
SOGCHO OFFICE, MUGHO OPA          AUTHORITYDIRECTOR. SUSAN PORT
CONSTRUCTION OFFICE
ISTPORT
I.  ALO         RJTY                 J , ANGHANG OFFICE, GDPA                  r ADMINISTRATION DIV.
CONSTRUCTION DIV. hI,
MASAN DISTCRI, T   |P*ORTMOGPO DISTRICT PORTL CONSTRUCTION DIV. 2nd
L ASANGMU    DISTIC T,  PO RT  *  MOGPO   DISTRICT  PORT
AUTHORITY                        AUTHORITY
AREONTIO OFOCE, MDPAFICE
M                J   ~~~~~~POHANG DISTRICT PORT
0 OHANG PORT CONSTR JCTION|
CO FUF IFCC EC
. JEJU DISTRICT PORT
AUTHORITY
L SEOGVIPO OFFICE, JOPA
World Sann-16452



lBRD 11700R
-r  /                 1260                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~27'             1220-s                                                      NOVEMBER 197
/ j  '.                                     ~~~~~~            ~~~~NORTH  KOREA/qso'
C H   N A      QtciI
it-C>  ~ ~ ~     ~        ~        ~        ~       ~          r~~~~wov-~~~~~~~~V      I ~-tEast                                          Se a
RERUIJlLlO      . /            *N-                                         1,
SPenn/Ac oce~an
*npy  otoe,e, ~r ocrooceby so-  -
BaE Mnoo,afSoe 
Ye/law   - $ a  a                                                          * ~~~~~~~~  V    tD~~~~rwan6       Ilyeoooong4     --~~~~~~~
Onyang  Fee,.', ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  p~3-
w  12                                                                                                                               ------~~~ )    C Ceeoo3 Fosn
XQR E A                        t. Gongj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HY
TRANSPORTATION NETWOftK ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  / /                       V~~~~~P
EqOTWO NAliONAL IROIIWAYS       --        a        Dorir ~        ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~ .V.
EXPRESSWAY 0002151 tAIlS TOad       nice'              .-j  VeOFOAOOY,h
-   RATICIIAI. RISIIWAYS WAVEd                                                                                            C 4;                320~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
f    -j~    i--NTOA ERIOAL  UN'AED                                                              A.re''..- BIr,                                        ~        0~ 
at~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
pOJT HIIIAY
NATCONAI'RUOToN*ANOEJWNVE,RT  GFIERJC  OS 51.N                 '                       -'      /          i--
I0OWTWfAVSI                        HRARJC   y                          "I'.                                       A     -  
... A.. FEASHYS,TD AIl
  PNOV1PJCIE CAPITALS 
4;    PORTS        -         -I-Fft PGjF4 
PA                                                                                                -AFY,~i  -  /*. 
It             40             sp       '                                                     N
KILOMETERS    ~~~~~~~~~~~                   I                                    p ~~~.j
320                                                     06'
Aj>    127r                      fv
SnOres <3 w~~~~~~~12






IBRD 10382R3
KOREA
SECOND PORT PROJECT
BUSAN HARBOR
LOAN 917-05      2;d STAGE
EXISTING    CONSTRUCTION    CONSTRUCTION
PIERS OR SHIPWHARVES
WAREHOUSES                                                  \
TRANSIT SHEDS
RAILWAYS
ROADS
BUILDINGS
CRANE TRACKS                 t       f2
DREDGING AREAS                                                                          BUSANJ/N  KU
REHAB ILTATNWOK
0  250     500            1000             1500
PLYWOOD
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E CON TRIJC7,"   - 
/ O -    -: .   r vC    Ooter Ha1Br4 r
MIL
f  '  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E4An, ' ffiI A;SiX,el,, _
_  _   .   / -i -t        \   t                     >                                                                   >      Xn4U Kh9            Jmm i> T
gI^z7er  X    ~~~~~~~i w                                                                       -3      5                =               0 as!~~~~~~~A
*terber  f     (   YFONt f)S)> KU                                                                                             >                    .~~~~~UI
-'t  D  \       /                                               h<b  ahnsbhlmpMoo                     -   ftW                   osYAR
.   (     ;        <                t    /Impy    <n mwmel   o                                          Fcph7ne    b  The f   .                     jAw






IBRD 12506
DECEMBER 1976
.04iNA     ry i  ,0y                                                  
SEA OF JAPAN
N KOREA
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>  XKOREA                                                              r n                                        K
,:2P ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4    //BU ^ ;SAN  HRARO
The houndoniso shown on thin 0109 do not                                                                                SP/  AREA, ,9  
imnply ndo,semenl or  oscpianoc by the/                        0     
Worldhook and O ftstdiaeoe./                                              
///~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTIE PIE EXTENSION, "', 
>                                                        // /4W
//40 S  r  / /   / /gCONTAINER  PIER   EXTENSION
//,/g2/   /  >         /  ,/^g                                                C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONTAINERI PIER CRANES
/ / / / / /   /e w         t/t         X                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LlGarTOWEflS
//  /  flZ//    /  0   /  / inS //.1>    ,                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNDER 'LOACN 917-KOIF IflST PORT PRlOJECTX
,    a S,  /   //,    t    S                                                 Q    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILWAYS
%<  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 //                                           KtoefR 
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /  /
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
. ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
00~~~'K$              20    S    C



