'77,9
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1401-KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Port Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 28, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Korea Maritime and
Port Authority (hereinafter called KMPA) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to KMPA the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions, Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "First Port Project" means the project described in
Schedule 2 to the First Loan Agreement;
(b) "First Loan Agreement" means the agreement dated June
27, 1973 entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for the
purposes of the First Port Project;
(c) "KMPA" means Korea Maritime and Port Authority, an
office (chong) of the Borrower under the jurisdiction of its
Ministry of Transportation, established and operating pursuant to
Presidential Decrees No. 8018 and No. 8019, dated March 13, 1976
and referred to as KPA (Korea Port Authority) in the First Loan
Agreement;


﻿- 3 -
(d) "BDMPA" means Busan District Maritime and Port Authority,
a district office of KMPA responsible for the operation of the
Busan port;
(e) "MOT" means the Ministry of Transportation of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(f) "EPB" meana the Economic Planning Board of the Borrower,
or any successor thereto;
(g)  "MOC" means the Ministry of Construction of the Borrower,
or any successor thereto;
(h) "Industrial Port" means any port forming part of an
industrial complex, developed under the supervision of MOC in
accordance with the provisions of Law No. 6257, dated December 24,
1973, as amended, and operated by KMPA upon completion of its
construction;
(i) "First-Class Port" means any of the ports under the
jurisdiction of KMPA, listed as a first-class port under the
Borrower's Presidential Decree No. 5235, dated July 28, 1970, as
amended; and
(j) "TOC" means any of the Terminal Operating Companies
appointed by KMPA to be responsible for cargo handling operations
in a First-Class Port in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 5.05 through 5.07 of this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-seven
million dollars ($67,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-half per cent (8.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause KMPA to carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than
January 1, 1979 or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Bank, take all such action as shall be necessary to vest KMPA with
autonomous powers including, inter alia, the powers (i) to incur
debt, (ii) to fix the emoluments of its staff, (iii) to prepare
and submit to MOT and EPB its proposed budgets in a commercial
form, (iv) to have reasonable flexibility in adjusting approved
operating budgets.to meet cost changes arising out of unexpected
fluctuations in port traffic, (v) to open and maintain an account
with the Bank of Korea for revenue receipts and payments of
obligations, and (vi) to maintain its records in accordance with
commercial accounting procedures.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than April 1, 1978 or such
other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, submit to the Bank,
for review, its proposals to meet the Borrower's obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿-7-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of
the Loan availabIa to KMPA for the purposes of carrying out the
Project.
(b) Upon the enactment of the legislation required to meet
the Borrower's obligations under Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause KMPA to undertake to repay to
the Borrower (i) the proceeds of the Loan made available to KMPA
under paragraph (a) of this Section and (ii) the proceeds of the
Loan made directly to the Borrower under the First Loan Agreement
for the purposes of the First Port Project, such repayment to be
made pursuant to arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank,
including inter alia, interest at rates identical to those
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement and of the First Loan
Agreement, respectively, and repayment and grace periods identical
to those specified in the Amortization Schedules to this Agreement
and to the First Loan Agreement, respectively.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
arrangements entered into with KMPA under paragraph (b) of this
Section in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
amend, abrogate or waive any provision of such arrangements.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.04. (a) In order to assist KMPA in the preparation
of plans and specifications for the Project, the supervision of
civil works and the erection and installation of equipment under
the Project and (b) for the purpose of Part F of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause KMPA to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. For the purpose of carrying out Parts A
through E of the Project, the Borrower shall cause KMPA to employ
contractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall (i) not later than
October 31, 1977 or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Bank, submit to the Bank for review the detailed engineering of
the road connecting the Busan port to the Busan-Seoul expressway
and the Namhae expressway; and (ii) not later than December 31,
1979 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, complete
the construction of such road.
(b) The Borrower shall (i) undertake and submit to the Bank
for review, not later than June 30, 1978 or such other date as
shall be agreed with the Bank, a study, under terms of reference
which shall have been approved by the Bank, of city-wide transport
and land use in Busan over the period 1978-1983 which shall identify
the best medium-term solution to the city's traffic congestion and


﻿- 9 -
assess its feasibility; and (ii) implement the recommendations of
such study by July 31, 1979 or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than July 1, 1977 or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Bank, furnish to the Bank for its comments
its present procedures governing cargo movement within the customs
area of all First-Class Ports;
(b) by July 1, 1978 or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Bank, adopt and implement improved procedures acceptable
to the Borrower, the Bank and KMPA; and
(c) thereafter submit to the Bank for review any proposed
modifications to such procedures.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all action required
on its part to allow mainline container shipping companies to
serve directly the ports of Busan and Incheon.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause KMPA to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by KMPA to replace or repair
such goods.


﻿- 10 -
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause KMPA to ensure that all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower shall be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall cause KMPA to furnish to
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause KMPA to: (i) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents, without any
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 11 -
(c) The Borrower shall cause KMPA to enable the Bank's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of KMPA and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall cause KMPA to exchange
views with the Bank, at the request of the Bank, with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the arrangements entered into with
the Borrower under Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall cause KMPA to promptly inform the
Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with, the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by KMPA of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the arrangements entered into with
the Borrower under Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause KMPA to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
(b) In order to assist KMPA in preparing financial statements
in accordance with commercial accounting practices, and in
implementing the new accounting, costing and management information
systems designed by the consultants employed for the purposes of
the First Port Project, the Borrower shall cause KMPA to employ
adequately qualified and experienced accountants.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause KMPA to : (i) have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements), including BDMPA's
accounts, for each fiscal year from 1979 audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)


﻿- 13 -
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial st?tements of KMPA and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause KMPA to establish, not
later than January 1, 1979 or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Bank, and thereafter maintain in the Busan port a
cost-based tariff system satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause KMPA to establish and maintain port tariffs
which shall yield total revenues at least equal to the aggregate
amount of operating, maintenance, loan interest and depreciation
costs of (a) the ports of Incheon, Mugho, Yeosu and Pohang,
respectively, by January 1, 1979 and (b) each of the other major
ports (with the exception of Busan), as defined by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank, by a date acceptable to the
Bank.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause KMPA to (a) undertake
and complete by April 1, 1978 or such other date as shall be
agreed with the Bank a study to: (i) recommend measures aimed
at encouraging greater use of container facilities at th6"Incheon
port; and (ii) review the level of container charges at the ports
of Incheon and Busan in comparison with the levels of such charges


﻿- 14 -
in competing foreign ports; and (b) establish by May 1, 1978 or
such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, a uniform tariff
for each 20 ft equivalent container unit handled in the Busan
port, on the basis of the study referred to in (b) above.
Section 4.06. Not later than July 1, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agreed with the Bank, the Borrower shall cause KMPA
to set and collect from each TOC appointed by KMPA in the Busan
port charges at a level sufficient for KMPA to (a) recover the
port's costs of servicing and maintaining the pier and equipment
used by such TOC, (b) make adequate provision for depreciation
and (c) fulfill its obligations under Section 4.07 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause KMPA to:
(a) take all necessary steps (including but not limited
to adjustments in its port tariffs and charges) to enable KMPA
to earn, in fiscal year 1979 and thereafter, an annual rate of
return on its net fixed assets in operation which shall be agreed
upon between the Borrower, the Bank and KMPA; and
(b) take all necessary steps (including but not limited
to adjustmehts in the Busan port tariffs and charges) to enable
BDMPA to earn, in fiscal year 1978 and thereafter, an annual rate
of return of not less than 7% on its net fixed assets in operation.


﻿- 15 -
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated
by relating the net operating income for the year
in question to the average of the value of the net
fixed assets of KMPA (or BDMPA) in operation at the
beginning and at the end of each year;
(ii) the term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross book value of the assets of all
First-Class Ports assigned to KMPA by the Borrower
without any interest or charge thereon (and
in the case of BDMPA the assets of the Busan port)
less the amount of accumulated depreciation, as
valued from time to time in accordance with
appropriate consistently maintained methods of
valuation acceptable to the Bank; and
(iii) the term "net operating income" shall mean the
difference between:
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from the
services of KMPA (or BDMPA); and
(B) the operating and administrative expenses,
taxes (if any), adequate maintenance and
depreciation but excluding interest and other
charges on debt.


﻿- 16 -
Paragraph (b) of this Section supersedes paragraph (a) (iii)
of Section 4.05 of the First Loan Agreement with respect to the
port of Busan.
Section 4.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not authorize KMPA to incur any debt on behalf of
BDMPA unless BDMPA's net revenues for any twelve consecutive
months within the fifteen months next preceding such incurrence
shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement
for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to
be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "Debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of a contract or loan
agreement or guarantee agreement providing for such
debt or for the guarantee thereof, but in the case
of guarantee of debt, only to the extent that the
guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii)  "Net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources, adjusted to take account of BDMPA's port
tariffs in effect at the time of incurrence of debt


﻿- 17 -
even though such tariffs were not in effect during
the fiscal year or the twelve-month period to which
such revenues relate, less all operating,
maintenance and administrative expenses and
including provision for taxes, if any, but before
provision for depreciation, bad debts, interest and
other charges on debt.
(iv)  "Debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund
contributions, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
(v) Whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable by KMPA for the purpose
of servicing such debt, or if such other currency
is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that
will be reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 4.09. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not authorize KMPA to make
investments on the Busan port (other than those required under the


﻿- 18 -
Project and the First Port Project and those related to normal
replacement of worn-out or obsolescent assets) in excess of
$1,500,000 per annum after 1978 and until completion of the
Project.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall cause KMPA to prepare,
and not later than January 1, 1982 or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Bank, to adopt a realistic schedule of
depreciation of KMPA's assets for financial and cost accounting
purposes.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other
legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any
lien created on assets of any of its political or administrative
subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to
the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other


﻿- 20 -
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.


﻿- 21 -
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be required to cause (a) MOC to (i) consult with MOT and KMPA on
the need for port facilities forming part of industrial complexes
and (ii) make available feasibility studies and designs of
Industrial Ports to MOT and KMPA for comments prior to their
submission to EPB; (b) MOT and KMPA to advise EPB on the technical
soundness and the economic and financial justification of MOC's
Industrial Port development proposals; and (c) EPB to take MOT's
and KMPA's views into consideration before approving MOC's port
investment budget.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall cause KMPA to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall cause KMPA to operate and
maintain all the port facilities under its jurisdiction in
accordance with sound engineering, port operating, and financial
practices.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause KMPA to appoint, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a single TOC to be responsible for cargo
handling operations at each of the bulk piers of (a) the ports of
Busan, Mugho and Incheon, respectively, by March 31, 1978 and (b)


﻿- 22 -
each of the other First-Class Ports by a date acceptable to the
Bank. For this purpose, KMPA shall submit to the Bank, for its
approval, a standard form of contract applicable to all TOCs.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall cause KMPA to appoint, not
later than March 31, 1978 or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, separate TOCs to be responsible for container handling and
grain handling operations at the Busan port.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause KMPA to appoint, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a single TOC to be responsible for break
bulk cargo handling operations at each pier, or other designated
area, of (a) the ports of Busan, Mugho and Incheon, respectively
by March 31, 1979 and (b) each of the other First-Class Ports by a
date acceptable to the Bank. For this purpose, KMPA shall submit
to the Bank, for its approval, a standard form of contract
applicable to all TOCs.
Section 5.08. By July 1, 1982 or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Borrower and the Bank, depending on the degree
of experience acquired by KMPA's staff in supervising the TOCs'
cargo handling operations referred to in Sections 5.05, 5.06 and
5.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause KMPA to take over
the responsibility for all such operations.


﻿- 23 -
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall cause KMPA to operate 24
hours a day Busan port's container wharf, including the container
freight station included in Part C of the Project.


﻿- 24 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Presidential Decrees No. 8018 and No. 8019, dated
March 13, 1976 and any other laws and regulations of the Borrower
relating to the operation of KMPA shall have bEen amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, so as to materially and
adversely affect the conduct of KMPA's operations or its financial
condition or the performance of KMPA's obligations under this
Agreement; and
(b) KMPA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the arrangements entered into with the Borrower under
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower and KMPA.


﻿- 25 -
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date July 27, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 26 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Economic Planning Board of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 27 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By Is/ Yoonsae Yang
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil works               25,000,000            55% (represent-
ing the esti-
mated foreign
exchange com-
ponent)
(2) Equipment                 17,600,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Engineering                4,000,000           100% of foreign
consultants'                                   expenditures or
services                                       80% of local ex-
penditures
(4) Technical as-              1,200,000            100% of foreign
sistance and                                   expenditures or
training under                                 80% of local
Part F of the                                  expenditures
Project
(5) Unallocated               19,200,000
TOTAL     67,000,000


﻿- 29 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as ,required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 30 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which will, inter alia, expand the capacity of
the Busan port, is included in the Borrower's Fourth Five-Year
Plan and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Construction of a 700 m extension of the common-user
container berths included in Part A of the First Port
Project and a 335,000 m2 expansion of the container
stacking area also included in Part A of the First Port
Project.
Part B:
Dredging of the access alongside the container berths
included in Part A of the Project to provide a depth
of 12.5 meters at low water ordinary spring tides.
Part C:
Construction of an access road, inside the port limits,
a guard house, a 8,000 m2 container freight station,
and the necessary ancillary facilities.
Part D:
Rehabilitation of the existing Pier 3 and Pier 4; the
Central Wharf and Lighter Wharf No. 5.


﻿- 32 -
Part E:
Purchase and installation of container cranes and mobile
container handling equipment; purchase of two tugboats.
Part F:
Provision of technical assistance and carrying out of
a training program to assist KMPA's staff in cargo
handling (including the handling of containers), port
planning and maintenance and accounting.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1981
through   December 1, 1993                     2,480,000
On June 1, 1994,                                    2,520,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 34 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the prkiiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                    Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                        1.50%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                         3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         5.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                         7.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                         8.50%


﻿- 35 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference
for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to KMPA of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Republic of Korea may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:


﻿- 36 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a
bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of Korea if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower,
the Bank and KMPA that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in the Republic
of Korea equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods;
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Republic of Korea.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall


﻿- 37 -
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if
said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   If bidders are required to prequalify, KMPA shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their


﻿- 38 -
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by KMPA to the
Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
KMPA's decision, and KMPA shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works or equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, KMPA shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, KMPA shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract


﻿- 39 -
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02
of this Agreerent, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform KMPA and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
KMPA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with


﻿- 40 -
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform KMPA and state the reasons for such determination.


