                                      Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                       Report No: ICR2897



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-75620)


                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US4.0 MILLION

                                       TO THE
                      HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                                       FOR A
               SOCIAL PROTECTION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT


                                 February 28, 2014




Human Development Sector Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective 11/30/2013)

                       Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar
                            JOD 1.00 = US$1.41
                            US$1.00 = JOD 0.708

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 - December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CCSS    Coordination Commission of Social Solidarity
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
DOS     Department of Statistics
EPP     Enhanced Productivity Program
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment
FM      Financial Management
HIES    Household Income and Expenditure Survey
ICT     Information and Communication Technology
ISSC    Integrated Social Service Center
ISTD    Income and Sales Tax Department
LAN     Local Area Network (refers to institutional internet/ intranet
        connectivity)
MIS     Management Information System
MOPIC   Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MoSD    Ministry of Social Development
MTR     Mid-term Review
NAF     National Aid Fund
NUR     National Unified Registry and Outreach Program for Targeting Social
        Assistance Project (2013)
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDA     Portable Digital Assistant (Software)
PISU    Project Implementation and Support Unit
RIC     Research Information Center
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
SPEP    Social Protection Enhancement Project
WAN     Wide-Area Network (refers to a system for internet/intranet connection)

                       Vice President        Inger Andersen
                     Country Director        Ferid Belhaj
                      Sector Manager         Yasser El-Gamamal
                 Project Team Leader         Setareh Razmara
                    ICR Team Leader          Setareh Razmara
                         ICR Authors         Amr S. Moubarak / Suzana N. de Campos
                                             Abbott



                                        ii
                                           Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
                                       Social Protection Enhancement Project

                                                                CONTENTS

DATA SHEET.............................................................................................................................................. IV
1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ............................................................... 1
2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES .............................................................. 6
3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................................................. 16
4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME ............................................................................ 23
5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE...................................................................... 23
6. LESSONS LEARNED ............................................................................................................................... 26
7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS ........................ 28
ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ............................................................................................. 29
ANNEX 2. FULL DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT’S ORIGINAL COMPONENTS .................................................... 30
ANNEX 3. COMPARISON TABLE OF ORIGINAL AND RESTRUCTURED PROJECT COMPONENTS, FINANCING,
AND OUTPUT ............................................................................................................................................ 35
ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES ........................... 38
ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS .............................................................................................. 40
ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS .................................................................. 41
ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR .............................................................................................. 42
ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS.................................. 52
ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ........................................................................................... 53
MAP ........................................................................................................................................................ 54




                                                                           iii
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Jordan Social
Country:                Jordan                  Project Name:            Protection
                                                                         Enhancement Project
Project ID:             P100546                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IBRD-75620
ICR Date:               02/28/2014              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         HASHEMITE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                KINGDOM OF
                                                                         JORDAN
Original Total
                        USD 4.00M               Disbursed Amount:        USD 0.968M
Commitment:
Revised Amount after
                        USD 3.18M
restructuring:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Social Development
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/22/2006    Effectiveness:           12/01/2008         12/01/2008
Appraisal:             03/12/2008    Restructuring(s):                           02/27/2013
Approval:              06/03/2008    Mid-term Review:         12/05/2011         02/06/2012
                                     Closing:                 08/31/2013         08/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Highly Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     High
Bank Performance:                                Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings             Borrower           Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                             Government:      Unsatisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                              Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
                                              Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Unsatisfactory        Overall Borrower Unsatisfactory

                                                iv
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     75                   75
Other social services                                                 25                   25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               33                   33
Social safety nets                                                    67                   67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Ferid Belhaj                         Hedi Larbi
                           Enis Baris (acting SD)/Yasser Michal J. Rutkowski/ Roberta
Sector Director/ Manager
                           Aabdel-Aleem Awny El-Gammal Gatti
Project Team Leader:       Lire Ersado                          Aleksandra Posarac
ICR Team Leader:           Setareh Razmara
                           Amr S. Moubarak / Suzana Nagele
ICR Primary Author:
                           de Campos Abbott



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Project development objective is to improve the management and operations of the cash
social assistance programs and to improve the access to and quality of social care
services.



                                               v
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)          Values        Target Years
                Coverage (C) of the target poor population by NAF programs reaches at least 70
Indicator 1 :
                percent; error of inclusion (EI) of the non-poor does not exceed 30 percent
                                            At Year 5:
Value
                                            70% (C) / 30%                     25% (C) /
quantitative or 19% (C) /80% (EI)                              60%(C)/30%(
                                            (EI)                              Unidentified (EI)
Qualitative)                                                   EI)
Date achieved 06/03/2008                    06/04/2008          02/27/2013       08/31/2013
                There is inconsistency between the PDO indicator and the Intermediate Indicator
                # 7 (see below).
                The objective was to ensure that 70% of NAF beneficiaries are poor compared to
                19% at the baseline.
                The measure was reported and communicated at Supervision and Restructuring
Comments
                in very unclear terms. In 2012, Bank staff estimates showed that two-thirds of
(incl. %
                benefits went to the bottom two deciles of the population, making NAF program
achievement)
                one of the best targeted social assistance programs in the region.
                However, at restructuring the reported baseline was 25% (C), and 75% (EI) and
                was not updated based on the latest analytical work. Further, the formally revised
                target value does not add up to 100% -- 60% (C), and 30% (EI), and at closing
                the original coverage rate of 25% was reported.
                Fifty percent increase in the number of people benefitting from the MoSD social
Indicator 2 :
                work and care services in localities served by pilot centers
                                                                 100% of Pilot
Value
                TBD (to be added at pilot At Year 5:            Centers are
quantitative or                                                                  None
                preparation)                50% increase        fully
Qualitative)
                                                                functional
Date achieved 06/03/2008                    06/04/2008          02/27/2013       08/31/2013
Comments         Since baseline was not identified at pilot preparation, it is unclear how the
(incl. %        increase was measured and based on which baseline value. No value reported at
achievement) closing.
Indicator 3 : Improved user satisfaction with the NAF and MoSD services
                Baseline survey to be
Value
                conducted during the first
quantitative or                             Satisfactory        (Not revised) None
                year of the loan
Qualitative)
                effectiveness
Date achieved 06/03/2008                    06/04/2008          02/27/2013       08/31/2013
Comments
                No baseline survey was conducted. No definition was provided for “satisfactory”
(incl. %
                rating. No value reported at closing.
achievement)




                                                vi
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                The MoSD adopts a Strategic Development Plan and a Human Resources
Indicator 1 :
                Development Strategy
                                           At Year 2: Both
Value
                                           documents
(quantitative    None                                           Dropped        N/A
                                           approved by
or Qualitative)
                                           MoSD
Date achieved 06/03/2008                   06/04/2008           02/27/2013     08/31/2013
Comments
                 Consultant reports were submitted to MoSD from contracted consultants. Project
(incl. %
                did not adopt a Strategic Development Plan nor a Human Resources Strategy
achievement)
Indicator 2 : The M&E Unit of the MoSD issues its annual report
Value                                       At Year 5:
(quantitative    None                      Second M&E           Dropped        N/A
or Qualitative)                            report issued
Date achieved 06/03/2008                   06/04/2008           02/27/2013     08/31/2013
Comments
                 Several delays in hiring an M&E Specialist in the PISU. M&E Unit at the MoSD
(incl. %
                was not established.
achievement)
                At least two-thirds of the MoSD staff completes training envisaged in the Human
Indicator 3 :
                Resources Development Strategy
Value                                      At Year 5:
                 Training sporadic and
(quantitative                              66% of staff         Dropped        N/A
                not planned
or Qualitative)                            receives training
Date achieved 06/03/2008                   06/04/2008           02/27/2013     08/31/2013
Comments
                 No Human Resources Development Strategy adopted. No trainings were held on
(incl. %
                HR Strategy.
achievement)
                Standard packages for statistical data entry, cleaning, imputation, management
Indicator 4 :
                and analysis introduced and staff trained in using them
                                            At Year 5:
Value
                                           “Staff Routinely
(quantitative    Relatively Weak                                               None
                                           uses provided
or Qualitative)
                                           packages”
Date achieved 06/03/2008                   06/04/2008           02/27/2013     08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                NAF adopts an Operations Manual governing its business processes and
Indicator 5 :
                performance
Value
                                           At Year 1:
(quantitative    None                                                          None
                                           “completed”
or Qualitative)


                                              vii
Date achieved 06/03/2008                     06/04/2008         02/27/2013     08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         No record of an operational manual at supervision.
achievement)
                NAF HQ and MoSD/NAF local branches adequately staffed and staff skills
Indicator 6 :
                improved
Value                                        At Year 5:
(quantitative    None                        100% “adequately Dropped          N/A
or Qualitative)                              staffed”
Date achieved 06/03/2008                     06/04/2008         02/27/2013     08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         No baseline collected. No trainings held.
achievement)
                The number of households included in the NAF data base reaches at least 80
Indicator 7 :
                percent of poor households
Value
                                             At Year 5:
(quantitative   None                                            At Year 5:     None
                                             80%
or Qualitative)                                                 30%
Date achieved 06/03/2008                     06/04/2008         02/27/2013     08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Original project target is inconsistent with PDO indictor 1. See above.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : At least 50 percent of NAF beneficiaries use smart cards to collect assistance
Value
                                             At Year 5:
(quantitative    None                                           Dropped        N/A
                                             50%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/03/2008                     06/04/2008         02/27/2013     08/31/2013
Comments
                 No record on development or use of smart cards for NAF payments at
(incl. %
                effectiveness or in ISRs
achievement)
                At least 60 percent of key standards of care adopted and staff trained to
Indicator 9 :
                implement them
Value
                                             At Year 5:         At Year 4:
(quantitative   None                                                            None
                                             60%                60%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/03/2008                     06/04/2008         02/27/2013     08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Standards of care developed but not adopted. No implementation on record.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Three residential institutions transformed to resemble a family like setting
Value
                                              At Year 5:
(quantitative    None                                                          None
                                             3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/03/2008                     06/04/2008         02/27/2013     08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         All three centers received some funding for rehabilitation and furniture.
achievement)
Indicator 11 : Three pilot integrated social work and care centers fully functional and

                                              viii
                  adequately funded by the Government
Value
                                             At Year 5:
(quantitative     None                                              1              None
                                             3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/03/2008                    06/04/2008          02/27/2013     08/31/2013
Comments
                  None of the integrated social work and care centers were fully functional.
(incl. %
                  Standards of care developed but were not adopted for implementation.
achievement)
                  Three pilot resources and information centers for persons with disability fully
Indicator 12 :
                  operational and adequately funded by the Government.
Value
                                             At Year 5:
(quantitative     None                                              1              None
                                             3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/03/2008                  06/04/2008         02/27/2013      08/31/2013
Comments           During site-visit (September 2013), one center was rehabilitated center for
(incl. %          persons with disability. It was financed by the project, and was deemed out of
achievement)      compliance with building code standards and subsequently abandoned in 2013.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                        Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                             IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                    (USD millions)
  1     11/05/2008       Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
  2     06/18/2009       Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
  3     12/29/2009       Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
  4     05/26/2010           Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                      0.30
                                                              Moderately
  5     12/26/2010       Moderately Satisfactory                                                0.50
                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                Moderately                    Moderately
  6     10/26/2011                                                                              0.61
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
                                Moderately                    Moderately
  7     07/11/2012                                                                              0.85
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
                                Moderately                    Moderately
  8     07/21/2013                                                                              0.99
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory




                                                    ix
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     See attached Annex 3 for table
 02/27/2013       N       MU    MU            0.85
                                                     summary of key changes made


I. Disbursement Profile




                                        x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Country Background. At the time of Appraisal of the Social Protection
Enhancement Project (SPEP, the Project) in 2007, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan had
been achieving above-average development outcomes in terms of economic growth and
human development, compared to other lower middle-income countries. Despite a poor
resources base (with limited agricultural land, no oil resources, and scare water
resources), regional uncertainties and shocks stemming from a steep increase in oil
prices, Jordan had achieved a remarkable decline in poverty, and good economic
performance. Between 1997 and 2002-2003, poverty declined from 21.3 to 14.2 percent
and the annual GDP growth rate reached 5-7 percent. The broad-based economic growth
was supported by comprehensive structural reforms, increased foreign direct investments
from oil-rich Gulf countries and an expansion of manufacturing and exports. Consistent
levels of spending on, and a continued commitment to, human development, in particular
education and health, placed Jordan’s human development outcomes above those of other
lower middle-income countries globally. With a young, urbanized population of 5.7
million inhabitants, and a declining but still high population growth rate of 2.6 percent
per year, the Government of Jordan (GOJ) was facing increasing demands for further
expansion of social services.

2.      Jordan continued to face challenges, however, including a tight fiscal situation
(requiring fiscal discipline). Rising oil prices were putting pressure on inflation and the
state budget given its subsidies of fuel products. In the labor market, unemployment was
hovering around 13-15 percent, particularly among the youth. The country continued to
experience geographically uneven economic development, and a large influx of refugees
from neighboring countries, especially from Iraq increased demand on infrastructure and
housing. The majority of jobs created through Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)
demanded low skills, and were being filled by the huge influx of immigrant workers.
Jordan had yet to follow a growth path that would create higher productivity jobs.
Moreover, there was a concern about maintaining previous economic gains and progress
in poverty reduction. Particularly, there was a need to reduce disparities between the poor
and non-poor in education and health and to support and protect the poor through
affordable, sustainable, efficient and effective social safety net interventions—a need that
had become all the more urgent with increases in oil prices and the GOJ’s gradual
removal of the fuel subsidy.

3.      Sector Background. Broadly matching the country’s poverty and vulnerability
profile, Jordan’s social safety net system was comprised of most of the programs found in
relatively well-developed and diversified systems. The system included: (i) income
support to poor and vulnerable families, implemented by two key institutions, the
National Aid Fund (NAF) and the Zakat Fund; (ii) social care services to vulnerable
groups such as people with disabilities, children, youth, families and women in distress,
and others; and (iii) economic empowerment interventions through skills and asset
development, the most important of which was the Enhanced Productivity Program (EPP)
                                             1
hosted by the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC). A multitude
of public and private providers were involved in safety net program delivery. Total
public spending on safety nets was estimated at more than one percent of GDP (excluding
subsidies), with about one half spent through the NAF, and more than one quarter on the
EPP. The total number of beneficiaries was tentatively estimated at about 8-10 percent of
the population and the coverage of the poor (at baseline) at project approval was 19
percent.

4.      Several issues had emerged with respect to the performance of the GOJ’s safety
net programs. First, the poverty impact of cash transfers had been found empirically to
be modest; a major segment of the poor were not reached and the leakage of resources to
the non-poor was substantial. Second, the demand for social care services remained
prevalent but largely unmet. Third, anecdotal evidence suggested that programs aimed
at creating and enhancing economic opportunities for the poor tended to be captured by
the non-poor. Analytical support provided by the World Bank had pointed to several
factors that impacted the GOJ’s safety net in terms of its efficiency and effectiveness,
including: (i) an incomplete and somewhat incoherent policy and institutional
framework; (ii) overlapping institutional mandates; (iii) fragmentation and duplication of
programs; (iv) inefficient and ineffective targeting methods (some programs, such as
community social work and care services, were largely missing); (v) discretionary
decision making and weak technical, institutional and human resources capacity resulting
in inefficient and ineffective implementation; (vi) weak monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms; and (vii) modest use of a management information system (MIS) in
managing programs.

5.      Government Strategy. The GOJ had adopted a National Poverty Agenda
(2006), an overarching poverty reduction strategy aimed at increasing the welfare of
Jordanians, reducing poverty and creating jobs through sustained growth while achieving
fiscal sustainability. The reform of the social safety net system was one of the National
Agenda’s main priorities, articulated among its three pillars: (i) provision of case
assistance to increase and smooth consumption of the poor; (ii) the establishment of the
Coordination Commission for Social Solidarity (CCSS) to ensure coordination among
various stakeholders involved in poverty reduction efforts; and (iii) the development of
community-based social care services and economic empowerment programs.

6.      The renewal of the NAF was at the heart of the National Agenda. The NAF was
established in 1986 to provide cash social assistance to the poor. Its restructuring had
taken on added urgency in 2005-2006 when Jordan lost its oil grants and had to raise fuel
prices significantly. At the time of appraisal, the GOJ had, in response, eliminated the oil
subsidy, a decision that was expected to contribute to increased inflation, thus affecting
the welfare of many, especially those below the poverty line.

7.      Through broad participatory processes, the GOJ had also adopted several
strategies targeting specific vulnerable groups. These included: (i) a National Plan of
Action for Children 2004-2015, approved in 2004; (ii) a National Strategy for Persons
with Disabilities, approved in 2007; (iii) a National Strategy for Youth, approved in

                                             2
2003; (iv) a National Strategy for Women, approved in 2004; and (v) a National Strategy
for Family Protection, approved in 2005. While addressing specific groups, these
strategies had several common elements, especially in that they all called for the
development of community-based family focused social work, social care and
rehabilitation services, tailored to the specific needs of different vulnerable groups.

8.      Rationale for Bank Involvement. The rationale for Bank involvement was
strong. As background for the GOJ’s National Agenda, the Bank had prepared several
studies, including a Poverty Assessment (2004) and “Jordan: A Note on Strategy for
Modernization of the Social Safety Nets” (2007). The Bank brought knowledge and
experience in the development and reform of safety nets from countries across the world.
It was playing a catalyst role in building consensus and support for safety net reform by
providing cutting-edge technical advice on policy design. Overall, the Social Protection
Enhancement Project (SPEP) was a clear response to a GOJ priority and the project’s
design (including components) mirrored the diagnosis of issues and the GOJ’s preferred
policy directions. In addition, it was fully consistent with the Bank’s 2006 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). Responding to the GOJ’s National Agenda, the CAS
included reforming social protection and expanding inclusion as one of its four pillars.
Specifically, the CAS proposed analytical and financial assistance in support of: (i) a
comprehensive social protection and safety net strategy; and (ii) the implementing safety
net reform and developing robust targeting and monitoring and evaluation systems.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

9.      The Project’s Development Objective (PDO) was to improve the management and
operations of the cash social assistance programs and to improve access to and quality of
social care services. The Project’s progress towards accomplishment of its PDO was to
be measured by progress towards the following Key Indicators:1

      Coverage of the target poor population by NAF programs reaches at least 70
        percent; error of inclusion does not exceed 30 percent;
      50 percent increase in the number of people benefiting from social work, and care
        services in pilot districts; and
      Improved user satisfaction with the NAF and Ministry of Social Development
        (MOSD) services.

10.    In addition, the Project’s Results Framework included 12 Intermediate Outcome
Indicators, by component (Annex 3).




1
 The wording of the Outcome Indicators differs slightly between that listed on page 4 of the PAD and the Results
Framework on pages 25-26 of the PAD. The Indicators provided below are from the Project’s Results Framework.
                                                         3
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

11.     A Level 2 Project Restructuring was approved on February 27, 2013. The
restructuring did not modify the PDO, but did revise the Project’s Key Outcome and
Intermediate Outcome Indicators (Annex 3). The Loan’s August 31, 2013 Closing Date
was not extended as part of the restructuring. Overall, the restructuring was not intended
to be substantial given the approaching Closing Date and the weak implementation
capacity.

12.     The Project had been facing several bottlenecks that were limiting its progress and
resulting in Moderately Unsatisfactory ratings for both Implementation Progress (since
December 2010) and the Achievement of Development Objectives (since October 2011).
The factors that led to this less than satisfactory performance are described in detail in
Section 2. In order to address the difficulties the Project was facing, the GOJ and the
World Bank agreed to restructure the Project to focus on activities that were progressing
well and/or those with strong ownership and high probability of successful
implementation. In addition, the share of activities financed by the World Bank loan
increased to 100 percent in order to avoid delays in procurement, payment and
transaction processing, and availability of counterpart funding. In the context of the
restructuring, the GOJ agreed to put in place several enhancements to its financial
management (FM) and procurement functions intended to expedite implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.      As identified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), target groups were very
poor households and vulnerable groups of the population, including persons with
disabilities, ‘dysfunctional’ families, youth and women at risk and others who count on
provided assistance.. In addition, through its institutional strengthening objective, the
Project’s beneficiaries also included the MOSD, the NAF, the CCSS, and residential care
institutions, the integrated social service centers, and resource and information centers
that would improve the effectiveness and efficiency of social service delivery, thereby
multiplying the number of ultimate beneficiaries benefiting from the Project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

14.    The US$10.9 million Social Protection Enhancement Project (SPEP) was
financed by a US$4.0 million Specific Investment Loan (SIL) approved by the World
Bank’s Board on June 3, 2008. The Government provided counterpart funding for the
remaining amount. The Project comprised four components. Annex 2 provides a
comprehensive description of all four original components of the project as well as
relevant sub-components and envisioned activities.

15.    Component A: Institutional Development and Capacity Building for Social
Safety Net Policies Formulation and Implementation (estimated Total Cost US$3.3
million, World Bank financing US$1.2 million).        This component aimed at

                                            4
strengthening and developing institutions involved in analysis, design, coordination,
monitoring and evaluation and implementation of social safety net policies and programs,
so that they perform their function and deliver services efficiently and effectively. More
specifically, this component included three sub-components: (i) capacity building of the
CCSS; (ii) strengthening institutional and human resource capacity of the MOSD; and
(iii) strengthening the capacity of the Department of Statistics (DOS).

16.     Component B: Renewal of the National Aid Fund (NAF) (estimated Total
Cost US$2.9 million, World Bank financing US$1.1 million). This component aimed
to improve the operations and management, coverage of the targeted poor population and
targeting efficiency and effectiveness of the cash assistance through the NAF. The
objectives were to establish an automated, and up-to-date database on poor and
vulnerable population in Jordan; to improve skills of NAF staff to perform their tasks;
and strengthen the capacity of NAF to monitor delivery of assistance and carry out
knowledge-based adjustments in both targeting and implementation arrangements. More
specifically this component included the following three sub-components: establishment
of an MIS for a database on poor and vulnerable in NAF; strengthening NAF technical
and administrative capacities for benefit delivery; and improving the targeting
mechanisms of NAF.

17.     Component C: Improving Access to and Quality of Social Work and Care
Services (estimated Total Cost US$3.8 million, World Bank financing US$1.4
million). This component aimed to improve access to and quality of services to
vulnerable groups such as persons with disabilities, women and children in difficult
circumstances, dysfunctional families, youth with behavioral problems, youth in conflict
with law, etc. It would support the MOSD in implementing a number of actions
envisaged in the GOJ’s strategies targeting vulnerable groups (Section 1.1). Under this
component, MOSD would develop core standards of social care, adopt an action plan for
their implementation, and launch its implementation. The capacity of service providers
to provide better care and rehabilitation would be strengthened, family centered,
community based care and rehabilitation model would be piloted, service options
available to vulnerable populations in six localities would be increased to include family
counseling and a referral system, and monitoring and evaluation would be introduced.
More specifically, this component included the following sub-components: (a)
developing standards of service and monitoring mechanism; (b) upgrading the model of
care in three residential care institutions; (c) piloting integrated social service centers; (d)
piloting resource and information for persons with disabilities; and (e) piloting for MOSD
social innovations programs.

18.    Component D: Project Management (estimated Total Cost US$0.8 million,
World Bank financing US$0.3 million). This component aimed to strengthen the
capacity of the MOSD and other institutions involved in project implementation (NAF,
CCSS and DOS) to efficiently and effectively implement the Project, while adhering to
the Bank’s fiduciary requirements, particularly with respect to procurement and financial
management. It was anticipated that technical assistance would be delivered in close


                                               5
collaboration with relevant departments/individuals, so that the transfer of knowledge and
hands-on training could take place immediately.

1.6 Revised Components

19.    Through the Project Restructuring, approved on February 27, 2013, the four
components were not revised. However, activities under each of the components that
were stalled or not progressing were eliminated from their respective components. The
following activities were cancelled in the restructuring (categorized by component):

Component A: Institutional Development and Capacity Building
      MOSD activities, including formulation of a strategic development plan,
        human resource development, monitoring and evaluation, and establishment
        of an MIS, and
      Activities not yet carried out that were to be implemented by the DOS
        pertaining to advanced poverty analysis.
Component B: National Aid Fund Renewal
      Activities not yet carried out (planning the mechanism, collecting household
        information, carrying out the NAF survey, etc.) pertaining to implementing a
        more efficient system of targeting the poor.
Component C: Improving Access and Quality of Social Welfare and Care Services
      Establishment of two (out of an original three) Integrated Social Service
        Centers (ISSC)
      Establishment of two (out of an original three) MOSD Resource Information
        Centers (RIC)
      Piloting of the Social Innovation Fund
Component D: Project Management
      Financing for a Financial Officer, Project Assistant and Secretary in the PISU

1.7 Other significant changes

20.     The Project Restructuring (Section 1.3) made the following additional changes:
(i) revised the project activities and the relevant targets; (ii) revised the financing
arrangements to include the reallocation of loan proceeds and increasing the Bank’s
disbursement to 100 percent; (iii) cancelled US$831,797 from the total World Bank loan
of US$4.0 million, bringing the total loan amount to US$3.18 million; and (iv) modified
the Project’s Results Framework. The changes introduced in the Project Restructuring
are presented in Annex 3.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

21.     Background Analysis. Project design and preparation were based on previous
extensive analytical work (Section 1.1) and were responsive to the Government’s policy
priorities, as articulated in its National Agenda (2006), and as part of a joint strategy
                                             6
developed by the MoSD and the World Bank for the enhancement of the social protection
sector in Jordan. The Project’s design was clear and relevant. It took into consideration
lessons of earlier operations, in general, and of countries that had successfully
implemented cash social assistance programs and integrated social care service centers
and resource and information centers for persons with disabilities, in particular. Bringing
knowledge and experience in supporting social safety net reform from around the world,
the World Bank had been supporting Jordan in building consensus by providing technical
advice on policy design, targeting methods, monitoring and evaluation systems and
implementation. Project activities such as building the MoSD’s monitoring and
evaluation systems, the creation of a dynamic Management Information Systems (MIS),
and the adoption of better targeting approaches to cash transfers by the NAF were based
on the recommendations of the modernization strategy.

22.     Government Commitment. The Government’s commitment at entry was clear.
The MOSD worked closely with the World Bank on a number of trust funded technical
assistance and sector work activities (including a Policy and Human Resource
Development Grant funded by Japan), and in designing a project which responded to its
policy priorities. World Bank engagement during preparation had resulted in a strong
dialogue through the provision of technical assistance to the NAF. However, the first
Implementation Status and Results (ISR) Report highlighted that “political support for
and commitment to the NAF reform is yet to be clearly formulated and expressed [by
MOSD].” 2

23.    Project Design. The Project’s design was ambitious, in terms of the number of
components and activities, all of which were well detailed and described in the PAD.
Moreover, the Project’s design did not sufficiently take into account the feasibility of the
implementation of a set of complex activities. The design was over-optimistic given the
multiple objectives and actors, weak technical capacity of the implementation agency,
and fragmented level of coordination among different levels of Government. Moreover,
given the evident difficulties to coordinate institutional arrangements among agency prior
to implementation, the PDO and intermediate indicators were overly optimistic.

24.     The Project encompassed a mix of activities aimed at enhancing the processes,
governance, and institutional capacity of the MOSD, the NAF, CCSS and DOS, and of
increasing the efficiency of their operations. These interventions would have a medium-
to long-term impact on Jordan’s social protection sector, while at the same time
incorporating activities that would directly have an impact on end-user services (ISSCs,
RICs and Social Innovation Fund).

25.    The design was complex in terms of required policy decisions for the Project to
achieve successfully its expected outcomes. Particularly, the Project over-estimated the
required, sustained Government commitment and the need for policy decisions and high-
level political intervention for reforms to move forward across all three components.
Although structured as an investment operation, achievement of the Project’s expected
outcomes, in reality, required major policy decisions with potentially difficult
2
    See ISR dated November 5, 2008, Section 1: “Note for Management Attention”.
                                                         7
implications for Jordanians and which the GOJ found difficult to implement. Policy
decisions faced challenges both in terms of the potential implications as well as in terms
of institutional capacity constraints of MOSD, and NAF to implement it (e.g., improved
targeting of the system of cash social assistance).3

26.     The Project’s institutional arrangements were optimistic, given capacity
constraints that the implementing agencies faced and the fact that oversight of
implementation was entrusted to a Project Implementation Support Unit (PISU) headed
by the MOSD Secretary General. The PISU included (i) a project director (external
consultant) to manage the day-to-day project activities in coordination with the relevant
program departments; (ii) a financial management specialist; and (iii) a procurement
specialist. Fiduciary consultants were expected to handle the Project’s fiduciary
management functions in coordination with relevant MOSD implementing departments
for the first year, after which, in time, these functions would be absorbed by MOSD staff.
In addition, the PISU was expected to hire term consultants with various technical
capacities, as needed. The PISU was, inter alia, responsible for planning project
implementation schedules, reviewing and issuing reports, and supporting implementation
in accordance with annual plans. The Project aimed to strengthen institutional capacity
of implementing agencies, while at the same time, these agencies would be carrying out
other activities under the Project (especially improvements to NAF targeting under
Component B and investments under Component C).

27.     Finally, there was a clear disconnect in the implementation approach of the
design. The design empowered the PISU to undertake steps in both designing reforms
that dealt with policy issues while at the same time supporting the government in their
implementation. This posed a client-clientele dilemma. On the one hand, PISU was
supposed to work under the direction of the agencies while on the other hand, it was
expected to direct a series of policy reforms within the MOSD. This included human
resource development strategy, standard of care for residential facilities, targeting
methodology for NAF, among others. To that end, the design underestimated the
frictions that these institutional arrangements could create where the PISU played both a
directive and support role to different departments in the ministry. Furthermore, these
arrangements did not help the Project’s institutional objective of capacity building since
the project management was entirely outsourced to a temporary PISU.

28.     The Project’s results framework, especially the expected project outcomes, was
overly optimistic (see above) given the level of reforms required. In addition, although
analytical work was well developed prior to the project preparation, there was no linkage
to the baseline data. For component C, the performance of NAF was to rely on the DOS
Household Income and Expenditure Survey (HIES) for coverage (through benefit
incidence analysis), targeting efficiency and poverty impact, as well as a special survey

3
  In effect, the ICR for the Recovery under Global Uncertainty Development Policy Loan, Report No. 1986 dated June
26, 2012 reports that the GOJ did not succeed in increasing the efficiency and enhancing the poverty impact of Jordan’s
social safety net by implementing the NAF Renewal Plan. The expected outcome for this policy measure under that
operation was to increase the coverage of the targeted poor population by NAF assistance to 40 percent of those under
the NAF threshold. This was well below the target that had been established under the Project, financed by an
investment loan.
                                                          8
of NAF beneficiaries (that was never carried out). The assumptions of improvement in
coverage over time were also overly optimistic. The results framework assumed that: i)
NAF coverage would increase in a short period of time from 19 to 70 percent of the poor
without putting in place measurable intermediate indicators that deal with outreach and
enrollment for the poor who are not covered, and ii) NAF leakage would decrease
without any graduation schemes or services for beneficiaries who do not qualify for
benefits. As for the remaining components, measurement relied mostly on outsourced
monitoring and evaluation by a third party and assumed that baseline information would
be collected when the loan became effective. With these evaluation arrangements, neither
the Ministry of Social Development (MoSD) nor NAF were expected to develop
monitoring and evaluation capacity even though the project aimed at strengthening the
government’s capacity in such areas.

29.     Assessment of Risk. As highlighted in the PAD, the Project was not without
risks—in fact, its Overall Risk Rating was considered Substantial. All of the factors that
impacted implementation were correctly identified as risk factors, although, in retrospect,
the risks of “weak project implementation capacity” and “increased regional political
instability that might shift Government focus and slow down reform implementation,”
both rated Moderate, were underrated during preparation. This is especially true in the
case of implementation capacity since this was the first externally financed project of this
scale to be implemented by the MOSD, and although the Project’s design recognized this
and included activities to address this challenge, the measures were not sufficient. It
might have been preferable to limit further the Project’s objectives, components and
activities to a scale more in line with implementation capacity of the implementing
agencies. Regional political instability undoubtedly impacted project progress as well, as
described below.

2.2 Implementation

30.     The US$4.0 million loan for the Project was approved by the World Bank’s Board
on June 3, 2008, signed on July 8, 2008, and became effective on December 1, 2008.
Implementation had a slow start as the Project Implementation Plan was only agreed to in
March 2009. The Project made very little progress towards the accomplishment of its
Project Development Objectives (Section 3.2), as it suffered difficulties throughout the
implementation period. During the Mid-Term Review, which took place in February
2012, the scope of the Project restructuring, as well as next steps, were discussed
although the restructuring was only finalized in March 2013. Nevertheless, the Project’s
Development Objective and Implementation Progress ratings, which had already been
downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory even before effectiveness, were temporarily
upgraded to Satisfactory in 2010, particularly reflecting the startup of the disbursement.
The rating for Implementation Progress again deteriorated and remained at Moderately
Unsatisfactory throughout most of the Project’s implementation (even after
restructuring). Most of the project ratings (financial management, project management,
procurement, and monitoring and evaluation) and Component ratings were likewise
judged to be Moderately Unsatisfactory throughout implementation. The main factors
that affected implementation are described below.

                                             9
31.     Institutional Arrangements. Throughout implementation, the PISU faced
increasing challenges to coordinate the implementation of various project components
implemented by different agencies. The Project’s institutional arrangements did not
emphasize the role of a higher level steering committee to provide overall policy
direction, and direct the work of the PISU in terms of coordinating, as opposed to
implementing the Project – a function beyond the mandate of a unit established with
mostly external consultants, with little guidance and/or support from policymakers in
government. Increasingly, the PISU was distanced from the staff of the Project’s
implementing agencies and confronted with increasing resistance to what MoSD
perceived as an externally funded PISU entity attempting to direct its work. The fact that
the NAF operated as a semi-autonomous agency from the General Secretariat of the
MOSD, with its operations functioning independently at the regional level, only
exacerbated the PISU’s difficulties in coordinating and guiding the Project’s
implementation. The PISU’s mandate could not have required it to direct the central and
regional management of different agencies. When asked if a steering committee to guide
the Project’s implementation had been established, in an interview conducted during the
ICR preparation, two stakeholders made reference to a loosely formed group that had met
only at the beginning of implementation.

32.    During implementation, the GOJ took the decision to abolish the Coordination
Commission for Social Solidarity, or CCSS. CCSS was responsible for implementation
of Component A .1that was to provide support to assist it in fulfilling one of its three core
functions: to research social issues of relevance for social policy development and where
information gaps were identified. The Jordanian cabinet of ministers decided through
Decision Number 2307 dated September 13, 2010 (reaffirmed on May 10, 2011) to
abolish the CCSS and transfer its mandate fully to the MOSD.

33.      Government Ownership. At the preparation stage, MoSD and the Council of
Ministers supported the planned reforms. However, at later stages of the project, this
support was less apparent. During later stages of the project, the Government showed
passive commitment to, and ownership of, the renewal of NAF, which required a policy
mandate from the highest levels of government. An idea that at one point – during
project preparation – had gained approval from the Jordanian Cabinet seemed to waiver
and slowly become a primary obstacle for the implementation of the Project’s second
component, Component B, Renewal of the NAF. Similarly, interviewed stakeholders
pointed to World Bank implementation support as increasingly focused on the
implementation of this component, almost to the detriment of the other components,
reiterating almost exclusively the adoption of proxy means testing (PMT) as the only
method of targeting assistance provided through the NAF. To a large extent, this
information is corroborated with several ISR notations submitted internally at the World
Bank.4 Lack of government ownership, or more specifically, disconnect between
different levels of Government, for a new targeting methodology is signaled as a
hindrance to overall project progress. The PAD made no reference to the adoption of
PMT as the targeting mechanism required to achieve the expected outcomes. Despite the
4
    See World Bank ISR “No.2” to ISR “No.5” (2009- 2011)
                                                      10
successful piloting of about 6,500 households screened using the PMT formula to
ascertain their eligibility, there was a lack of understanding, and therefore commitment,
at all levels of the GOJ on the costs and benefits of adopting PMT at the national level.
With no clear decision by the GOJ to adopt PMT, the issue appeared to have become a
sticking point between the GOJ and the World Bank’s team.

34.     Staffing Changes. The difficulties in implementing the Project were exacerbated
by frequent changes in the leadership of both the MoSD (five ministerial changes from
2007 until closing in 2013), as well as changes in the Director General of NAF that
resulted in lack of clear ownership, as well as frequent turnovers in staffing. These
changes almost inevitably had the effect of diminishing ownership and commitment.
Similarly, the PISU, already by design, without much power to put implementation on
sound footing, remained without a director for intermittent periods during the Project.
Moreover, the Project was not assigned a director for the first nine months of
implementation mainly because of disagreement between the World Bank and MoSD
officials on the selection process.5

35.     The staffing changes in the GOJ, including the Project’s implementing agencies,
were exacerbated by the frequent changes in the World Bank’s task manager for the
Project. Throughout the Project’s five-year implementation period, task management for
implementation support changed a total of four times, with task managers of different
specializations and capabilities assuming responsibility. It is important to point out,
however, that the World Bank brought in additional specialized staff as implementation
faltered.

36.     Lack of Internal Communication. Given that the Project did not have an
integrated steering committee, communication also became a significant problem at
implementation. Specifically, the Project lacked sufficient communication within
agencies at different levels (e.g., implementing arms of MoSD, the PISU, and policy
makers). In an interview with NAF at the conclusion of the Project, the Fund’s
leadership team stated that it was not fully briefed of the type of activities that were
agreed upon within its component at appraisal. In another field visit, two of the ISSC
managers were unable to identify any of the objectives of the Project or the type of
activities, services and reforms that they were to be implemented at their project site. A
series of site-visits and interviews with management and staff of centers revealed that
they were not well informed about the Project’s objectives and activities.

37.    Insufficient Project and fiduciary management capacity. The Project was
implemented by the MoSD, and supported by the PISU that was to provide general
oversight of project implementation, including fiduciary support. The long delay in hiring
the Project Director for the PISU affected early implementation, but even with the
Director in place, almost throughout, the PISU lacked capacity to carry out this function,
with key weaknesses especially in fiduciary management. Since the MoSD had no
previous experience with Bank-financed projects, the PAD had assessed procurement and

5
  It is important to note that the ICR team was unable to interview several of the Project Directors after repeated
requests for meetings. Only one former Project Director was interviewed.
                                                           11
financial management risks as “moderate”, and identified several mitigating measures,
including the contracting of external specialists and training of MoSD staff, to ensure that
fiduciary arrangements worked smoothly. Nevertheless, implementation was constrained
by lack of capacity in overall project management and frequent changes of FM and
procurement consultants who were hired to mitigate fiduciary risks.

38.     Administratively complex financing arrangements. The Project was to be
financed by the US$4.0 million Bank loan, and GOJ counterpart funding of
approximately US$6.8 million equivalent. Disbursements from the Bank loan were,
therefore, set to represent 40 percent of all expenditures under the Project, and, as a
result, the Bank’s Loan Agreement stipulated that the Bank’s Procurement Guidelines
would apply to all expenditures financed under the Project. The PISU found
implementation of this arrangement cumbersome, and coupled with weak capacity,
procurement processing suffered extensive delays as a result. This was later rectified in
the Project restructuring which set Bank disbursements at 100 percent of eligible
expenditures (Section 1.7).

39.     Misalignment of financing to Project activities. Although financing
arrangements in terms of expenditure categories (e.g. procurement, consulting, non-
consulting, other services) were aligned to the actual expenditures projected, the Project
financing was misaligned to planned project activities. A number of activities did not
receive allocations of funding and were expected to be implemented by the Government
fully while other activities were earmarked a significant portion of the funds. For
example, no Bank funding was allocated to the set-up of the M&E unit beyond the terms
of reference written for assessment. Further, little support was dedicated to the set-up of a
“one-stop shop” pilot in a regional MoSD office.

40.     Counterpart funding requirements. The Project’s counterpart funding
requirements were high (see above). Jordan’s previous strong macroeconomic
performance—growth had averaged 6.5 percent in 2000-2009—was severely affected by
the global economic crisis in 2009 that led to a sharp decline in growth in 2010. The
downturn significantly affected public finances. In 2011 , higher world fuel and food
prices, combined with growing political uncertainties in the region, and frequent
disruptions of gas supply from Egypt led to a larger import bill, a decline in foreign direct
investment, tourist revenues and foreign currency reserves.

41.    Overall Deterioration of Bank portfolio performance in Jordan. There was
noticeable decline in the overall performance of projects in the MNA region between
2008 and 2013. For Jordan, the percentage of unsatisfactory projects increased from 14%,
in 2008, to 43% in 2013 as compared to 8% and 29% for the whole region in the same
time period.6 This can be linked, to Jordan-specific challenges in policy reform and
frequent ministerial changes and, to some extent, to the political economy of the region as
a whole.



6
    Calculation by the authors. Portfolio data includes IBRD/IDA projects only.
                                                           12
42.     Arab Spring. Events in other countries in the region since February 2011 had an
effect on the GOJ and prevented progress on some reforms that may have had the
potential of causing social unrest (e.g., refining the targeting of NAF or Human Resource
reform of MOSD). Moreover, since 2010, political frustrations ran high as there were
frequent changes in the cabinet. Although the social challenges faced during this period
make SPEP’s objectives more relevant as a response mechanism to popular social
concerns, the country’s political economy made it difficult to implement components of
the project which required policy reform.

43.     Mid-Term Review. The Project’s Mid-Term Review took place from February
6-9, 2012. As part of preparation for the Mid-Term Review, the World Bank
commissioned an independent, external evaluation of the Project’s progress and the
issues it faced.7 The evaluation highlighted that the PDO was still achievable without
justifying this assertion, especially given the short time remaining to the closure of the
Project, and suggested that the PDO indicators should be revisited based on its findings.
The external consultants stressed that the Project’s weak progress and performance was
the “result of several factors including but not limited to, the weak performance of the
PISU management team, the unsatisfactory level of support by MoSD and the Ministry of
Planning and International Cooperation to PISU activities, the resistance to change that
exists in certain entities such as resistance to NAF new targeting mechanism, hesitance to
make some high level decisions related to achieving the Project’s objectives by cabinet
and MoSD, in addition to frequent change of ministers and officials at key institutions
working with the Project.” The report highlighted that there was a misunderstanding of
the Project and its activities by key stakeholders, especially those that were its
beneficiaries and implementers. This was to a large extent the result of the non-existence
of a communication plan that should have been put in place by the PISU. The external
evaluation concluded “the level of cooperation and coordination among the stakeholders
of the SPEP is minimal. Instead, a circle of blame among stakeholders exists regarding
who is responsible for the weak performance of the Project.” The evaluation also
provided a detailed analysis of the status of implementation of each of the Project’s
components, issues regarding their progress, and recommendations for improvement.

44.     Discussions surrounding the Mid-Term Review dragged on (an Aide-Memoire of
the Mid-Term Review was never finalized), and eventually led to the Project
restructuring approved on February 26, 2013 (Sections 1.3, 1.6 and 1.7). But, the
restructuring was “too little, too late”. The restructuring paper did not address the
disconnect between different levels of Government, or propose new institutional
arrangements. For the World Bank, the Project seemed to represent an important vehicle
for sector policy dialogue on an issue that continued to be very central to its assistance
strategy (Section 3.1). This presented the dilemma between closing a failing project or
remaining engaged in a priority sector. It seems that cancellation was not an option, as
neither the GOJ, nor the World Bank wanted to cancel a social protection operation. At
the same time, neither party contemplated a closing date extension. The Project was left
on the books to close as originally scheduled, with little, if any, results to show upon
completion (Section 3.2).
7
    Mid-Term Review of Social Protection Enhancement Project, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, March 25, 2012.
                                                        13
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

45.    Design. Each of the Project’s components was to have built-in monitoring and
evaluation activities. The MoSD, under the direction of the PISU Project Director, would
prepare and make available to the public an Annual Project Implementation Report
consolidating progress in implementation from MOSD, NAF, DOS and CCSS to allow
for monitoring of the Project. One of the key sources of information to monitor project
outcome indicators was to be a nationally representative Household Income and
Expenditure Survey (HIES) that was used for analysis of the living standards of the
Jordanian population, including poverty measurement, poverty profile, and NAF benefit
incidence analysis. In addition, a beneficiary assessment survey was to be carried out
during implementation to assess MoSD and NAF operations, as well as to obtain
information on satisfaction of NAF and MoSD beneficiaries. The Project also
contemplated third-party evaluation studies to assess some of its expected outcomes. The
second source of information was to be administrative data that would be generated by
the upgraded/new MIS in MoSD and NAF (to be financed by the Project), and integrated
by the CCSS. Both sources of information were expected to be complementary and
ensure adequate monitoring and evaluation of the Project’s outcomes.

46.      Apart from the fact that baseline data for outcome indicators was not available
when implementation began, the Project’s results framework presented several issues
(Section 2.1). Further, a key baseline and data sources for monitoring were not in place
at the time implementation began, and would be financed under the Project.

47.    Implementation and Utilization. The PISU compiled information on the
progress of each component through utilizing information submitted in the context of
disbursement processing and of site-visits to monitor intermediate outcome indicators.
The DOS routinely carried out HIES, and its capacity for household data collection and
poverty measurement and monitoring was strengthened under the Project (Section 3.2).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

48.     During project preparation, weak project implementation, including fiduciary
capacity, was identified as a potential risk and several mitigating measures were
identified as needed (and actions were taken) before effectiveness (Section 2.2).
Nevertheless, weak fiduciary management capacity, both for financial management and
procurement, led to delays in implementation almost throughout. The PISU opted to
provide fiduciary support, through progressively and internally appointed positions. This
was seen as a commitment to the sustainability and institutionalization of the Project, and
its results. Yet, frequent staff turnovers in the PISU, especially during in 2010 through
mid-2011, left a notable vacuum in knowledge of World Bank FM and procurement
requirements and procedures that affected the PISU’s ability to comply with fiduciary
requirements in a timely manner, and resulted in a lack of coordination and alignment of
the FM and procurement functions. As a result, the World Bank, during the project
restructuring supervision mission, agreed upon a set of actions that needed to be

                                            14
addressed for the restructuring to move forward, including submission of delayed reports,
staffing, etc.

49.     The above-mentioned capacity constraints led to frequent unsatisfactory Financial
Management (FM) ratings in the Project’s ISRs. The issues encountered included delays
in issuance of loan withdrawal applications (on one occasion a nine-month delay—two
years after implementation began only one had been submitted), submission of quarterly
interim unaudited financial reports, and delivery of audited financial statements. In
general, however the PISU maintained an acceptable automated accounting system that
was used to capture the Project’s financial transactions and generate the quarterly interim
unaudited financial reports.8 It also maintained adequate internal controls (detailed in an
acceptable FM and disbursement Manual that was part of the Project Implementation
Manual), including regular reconciliation of bank accounts and adequate segregation of
duties, and performed monthly reconciliation of disbursement summaries with project
accounting records.

50.     All of the Project’s audit reports until the end of 2012, were unqualified audit
opinions. Many, however, were consistently submitted with delays. The most recent audit
report (for year ending December 31, 2012) received a qualified auditor’s opinion. A
“Disclaimer of Audit Opinion” was issued on the statement of fixed assets. The
Disclaimer stated that the Project Implementation Support Unit “PISU” did not prepare
the statement of fixed assets. Despite several requests from the Bank, this statement was
not prepared. At project’s closing, a management letter reported ineligible expenditures
of US $21,371 representing taxes financed from the World Bank loan proceeds.9 This
amount is considered ineligible owning to the fact all related taxes should be financed by
the MoSD’s own budget as per the signed Loan Agreement. The MoSD is in the process
of providing justification for eligible expenses and refunding the World Bank for
ineligible balance. The last audit report will cover the period from January 1, 2013 to
Closing Date and given the grace for period ending December 31, 2013, it is due for
submission by February 28, 2014.

51.     Staffing constraints, especially a lack of continuity of qualified staff, similarly
affected the Project’s procurement function, almost throughout implementation. Issues
included a lengthy procurement process (on occasion, up to nine months to contract a
consultant), delays in approving awards due to internal procedures (at one point, each
contract award required the approval of the Prime Minister’s office), and non-conformity
to acceptable procurement practices (such as evaluating bids on an item-by-item basis,
leading to slicing a single bid into numerous awards). The PISU utilized the procurement
plans more for reporting purposes than as a planning tool to package efficiently the
activities and items being procured for purposes of observing economies of scale for
project procurement purchases. Finally, on occasion, activities to be procured were


8
  The accounting software was developed by a local firm and was utilized by other World Bank-financed projects in
Jordan, yet the software was modified to keep accounts of the Project. The software combines procurement,
accounting and budgeting modules to account for and report on Project activities.
9
  World Bank letter to Ministry of Social Development concerning ineligible expenditures on the Social Protection
Enhancement Project (December 24, 2013)
                                                        15
processed through contract award, only to be rebid (on occasion without the Bank’s no-
objection) if the Minister did not approve the award.

52.    The Project did not trigger any of the Bank’s safeguard policies.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

53.     The Project’s PDO to improve the management and operations of the social
assistance programs remain relevant in Jordan (Section 3.1). In December 2012, the GOJ
announced a broadly targeted cash transfer compensation scheme to accompany the fuel
subsidy removal administered by the Income and Sales Tax Department (ISTD). All
households with an aggregate annual income below JD 10,000 (approximately
US$14,100 equivalent) excluding foreigners and Jordanians living abroad are eligible for
the program, which covered up to 70 percent of the population in 2013. To assist GOJ in
its continuing efforts to compensate lower and middle-income groups following reduction
of fuel subsidies, a US$9.5 million grant “Support to Implementation of a National
Unified Registry and Outreach Program” (the NUR Project), financed by the Deauville
Partnership Transition trust fund, was approved in January 2013. At the demand of the
Government, the NUR Project is expected to improve the accuracy of targeting, to
provide options to assess more accurately the welfare of households, and to rank all
applicants for the compensation program according to a new welfare criterion for
distribution of social assistance. In addition, NUR Project is expected to introduce a
national unified registry that will help reduce fragmentation of databases across various
agencies and help increase the quality, reliability and accuracy of the existing national
database. Although the NUR Project is not the continuation of SPEP and its target
population is broader than the target population of NAF, the development of additional
targeting mechanism through the NUR Project could help in the future to improve the
accuracy of the existing categorical targeting used by NAF. Moreover, the development
of the National Unified Registry is critical for improving targeting of the compensation
scheme for fuel subsidies reform, as well as other safety net programs in the future.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: High

54.    Relevance of Objectives. Despite the Project’s implementation challenges, the
SPEP’s objectives remain valid today and consistent with the GOJ’s priorities as well as
with the World Bank’s assistance priorities. The relevance of its objectives is high.
Jordan’s economy was affected by both the global economic crisis and the political
upheaval that swept the Arab region. Sharp increases in oil and food prices, the removal
of fuel subsidies, and the global economic downturn have put pressure on the living
standards of many Jordanians, particularly those at the bottom of the income distribution.
As a result, Jordan’s weakening economy is undermined by social challenges, including
unemployment and poverty. Yet, the adverse changes in the world economy have led to
an increase in Jordan’s fiscal deficit that has restricted fiscal space for implementing
                                           16
employment generation and social protection programs. So, at this time of growing
social unrest, the GOJ is challenged to adopt a mix of fiscal consolidation measures
which include subsidy reform as an integral part (to save money for the Government),
and to reinstate social protection policies to protect the poor and vulnerable. The GOJ’s
commitment to this objective is reflected in its recently launched National Poverty
Reduction Strategy (PRS) with an overall goal of “containing and reducing poverty,
vulnerability and inequality in the current socio-economic environment of Jordan,
between 2013 and 2107, through the adoption of holistic and results-oriented approach,
which targets poor and below middle class individuals.” The PRS includes among its
nine objectives the following that are consistent with the Project’s PDO: (a) to better
harmonize all public, private and civil society poverty reduction programming, and (b) to
deliver expanded, increasingly aligned and better-targeted social protection measures to
members of poor and vulnerable households.

55.     The Project’s objective remains relevant and is consistent with the World Bank’s
FY12-15 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Jordan.10 Specifically, it is consistent
with the first and third pillars of the CPS, which aims to: Strengthen fiscal management
and increase accountability and Enhance inclusion through social protection and local
development. The CPS mentions that the World Bank group will support efforts to better
target social assistance to the neediest while simultaneously improving access to, and
quality of, social care services and improving health insurance coverage.

56.     Relevance of Design. The relevance of design is rated low. Although the
Project’s objective continues to be relevant and reflects an important development
priority for Jordan, its design was not. There was demand from the GOJ for support in
improving the delivery of cash assistance programs at the time of preparation, but an
eventual disconnect surfaced in government ownership, resistance or understanding of
what reform would entail. The GOJ was not prepared for the type of reform the
Project entailed, and the Project’s complex design was complicated with both activities
to improve the capacity for delivering social services and to address issues with the cash
social assistance program, at the same time.

57.      The GOJ’s strategy for addressing its objective of protecting the poor and
vulnerable has not changed, but the mechanism for doing so has. A new targeting
system is expected to address the fragmentation of databases across various agencies that
exist at present, including the NAF, and establish the NUR where all applicants will be
ranked according to a new welfare criterion for distribution of social assistance (Section
2.5).

58.   Relevance of Implementation. The World Bank’s implementation assistance
was not supportive in addressing the GoJ’s changing needs, institutional changes (e.g..,
decommissioning of CCSS), and competing priorities. As a result, it is rated low.
Implementation assistance did not address in a timely manner the bottle-necks faced by
the Project. The Mid-Term Review was conducted too late in the Project’s

10
 World Bank, Country Partnership Strategy for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for the Period FY12-FY15, Report
No. 58114
                                                     17
implementation to address the chronic issues identified in ISRs almost from the onset of
implementation. Although in practice, mid-term reviews can be used as tools to assess
project challenges and identify potential avenues to address them, the mid-term review
process was delayed in the case of this Project. Further, little, if any, proactive action was
taken to restructure the Project early---the project restructuring was approved during its
last year of implementation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory

59.     The achievement of Project Development Objectives is rated Highly
Unsatisfactory. There is no evidence to suggest that the Project succeeded in improving
the management and operations of the cash social assistance programs or improving
access to and quality of social care services as intended in the Project Development
Objectives. Quite apart from the inconsistency of targets established for its Key
Development Indicators, both in the PAD and later in the restructuring (Sections 2.1 and
2.3), the Project did not achieve its PDO, even in small measure. Overall, the Project
financed only a dispersed set of activities, some of which were initiated but not
completed, others of which were completed for institutions that were abolished, and yet
others that financed mere inputs for social centers that were not transformed in a way that
reflects the intended type of transformation specified in the PAD and intermediate
indicators. Furthermore, the lack of measurable baseline, and lack of any relevant
information with which to monitor the Project’s impact (PDO indicators 2 and 3, see
Section 2.0), further complicates the ability to measure any progress on several
indicators. Due to the lack of observed outcomes and poor measurement, this section
merely describes the inputs and services that were financed, by project component and
intermediate outcome.

Component A: Institutional Development and Capacity Building
Intermediate Outcome: The MoSD capacity to formulate and implement safety net
policies enhanced; DOS routinely uses standard software and statistical packages.
Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory

60.     The Project contemplated activities to strengthen the capacity of CCSS, MoSD
and DOS. CCSS completed the activities that were envisaged, i.e., procuring five
packages of software (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences, SPSS) and providing
training to its staff on its usage, and delivering training on data collection and research
design, evaluation indicators, monitoring and Strength, Weakness, Opportunity, Threat
analysis of CCSS, strategic planning and policy analysis and how to formulate poverty
policies and strategies. Further, indexes related to institutions serving the social care
centers were developed but not applied. However, CCSS was abolished in 2010 as part
of Jordan’s public expenditures consolidation.

61.     For DOS, the Project financed SPSS and personal data assistants, and training of
staff in their use. The Project also equipped a training center for DOS staff. There is no


                                             18
information on whether new hand-held enumeration devices envisioned in the project
were utilized for surveys by DOS.

62.     A second sub-component was dedicated for the adoption of a Strategic
Development Plan and a Human Resources Development Strategy. Based on interviews
with stakeholders, no reference was made to the adoption of a Strategic Development
plan at project closure. For the Human Resources Strategy, implementation was hindered
at the onset of the project when MoSD did not endorse the Strategy. Alternatively, the
PISU in collaboration with the MoSD leadership drafted an assessment of needs and the
establishment of standard position descriptions for MoSD that was discussed at Social
Care Centers but not implemented at regional offices of MoSD. The assessment was
expected to include training and capacity building requirements and standards based on
defining staff responsibilities and competencies. During the ICR mission, there was no
evidence of changes in Strategic Planning or HR policies at MoSD. Further, no trainings
were undertaken to the Human Resources Development Strategy (sub-component 4).

63.     Finally, a third sub-component was dedicated to the set-up of an M&E Unit to
coordinate monitoring and evaluation across programs and issue annual reports for the
ministry. This sub-component was also hindered at initial phase of the project where
MoSD did not approve the recruitment of an M&E consultant. No payments were made
for this sub-component. The ICR team was unable to identify reasons for why the
ministry did not move forward with establishing framework or parameters of the unit
even though delays were apparent at the recruitment stage.

64.     In sum, Component A did not achieve the results for the PDO indicator which
was to measure progress. Further, it did not deliver on any of the intermediate outcome
indicators that were prescribed to it at both the pre- and post- restructuring stage.

Component B: National Aid Fund Renewal
Intermediate Outcome: Coverage of the target poor population by NAF assistance
increases; errors of exclusion declines; NAF performs its functions efficiently and in
a transparent manner.
Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory

65.    During preparation, a pilot involving about 6,500 households, an updating of the
PMT targeting formula utilizing the 2008 HIES, approval for hiring of 50 new social
workers, revisions of the PMT and NAF questionnaires and preparation of technical
requirements for information technology hardware and software needs had been
completed. Still, this component faltered upon effectiveness as the World Bank insisted
in adoption of PMT methodology at the national level as the only targeting mechanism
for reducing errors of exclusion and improving coverage, and the GOJ was unable to
reach a decision to adopt the new methodology. Some activities related to installation of
MIS-related software and hardware, and voice and data communications in the central
and local NAF offices, as well as local area network (LAN) and wide area network
(WAN) connections were financed, and MoSD headquarters are connected to the national


                                           19
Secure Government Network. Beyond these institutional changes, there is no evidence of
the Project’s impact on increased coverage of the poor or reduction in errors of inclusion.

Component C: Improving Access and Quality of Social Welfare and Care Services
Intermediate Outcome: More people have access to good quality social work and
care services.
Rating: Unsatisfactory

66.      Integrated Social Services Centers: The Project financed consultants to select
the locations of pilot ISSCs, and to pilot three ISSCs in Amman, Russayfeh and Irbid.
Consultants identified priority areas and services needed in each center, determined the
main target groups and designed the centers accordingly. A master plan was designed
and submitted to MoSD by the hired consultant. The Project trained staff working with
people with disabilities at three RICs to provide services based on individual care and
rehabilitation plans, based on a case management approach. Three centers financed
under the Project are operational: Amman, Aqaba and Irbid. A consulting firm to assist
in rolling out the new care model was selected, but was not contracted. Finally, an
operational manual for the MoSD Social Innovations Program was developed.

67.     Residential Care Facilities: All residential institutions run by the ministry were
transformed to resemble family-like settings. This was particularly encouraged by the
decision of MoSD ex-minister to move forward in making most centers follow new
residential models. The Bank’s financing (below $50,000 per center) played a role in
purchase of furniture, computers and electronics, and some physical rehabilitation for
Ministry owned properties. However, there is not clear indication that Bank project
played a central role in the transformation.

68.    Disability Center: One pilot center which was financed by the World Bank pre-
and post- restructuring was abandoned (Umm Nuwarah Center) and no longer in use for
any purpose. This was largely due to an error during the rehabilitation process were it
was not done according to International or Local Disability Building Code Standards.

Component D: Project Management11
Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory

69.     The Project financed staffing of the PISU (including project director, project
procurement officer, financial officer, auditor, assistants, administrative assistants, and
the staffing for a NAF technical support unit including two technical experts and IT
consultants). The majority of expenses went for supporting PISU staffing and no
expenses were accrued beyond PISU activities for this component. The NAF technical
assistance unit worked under the direction of the project director in practice. Of the
successful activities undertaken for this Component, the PISU established separate books
for procurement and financial management, and upgraded financial management
software. However, the capacity developed is not expected to be maintained as the PISU
was dissolved upon completion of the Project.
11
     No intermediate outcome was defined for this Component.
                                                         20
3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Unsatisfactory

70.     Economic and Financial Analysis. The Project’s ex-ante economic and financial
analysis presented in the PAD justified the Project’s economic impact mostly on the basis
of an expected increase in efficiency in the use of public resources allocated to NAF.
The direct economic benefits from better access and improved quality of social care
services to vulnerable populations were expected to materialize in the medium- to long-
term, and were considered more difficult to quantify. Project activities aimed at capacity
building of MoSD, CCSS, DOS and NAF were expected to result in overall efficiency
gains in service delivery and a reduction in administrative costs for the Government. The
Project’s impact on activities that were expected to increase efficiency was negligible.
Therefore, an economic analysis of efficiency gains (cost-benefit, cost-effectiveness) for
the MoSD and GoJ as a result of the Project is not feasible. To that end, this section looks
at the overall breakdown of costs, and disbursement.

71.      The Project’s overall implementation was inefficient from a cost-benefit
perspective. Annex 3, shows a financial breakdown of the Project’s costs by component.
During the Project’s five years of implementation, only one quarter of the loan was
disbursed (US$967,905.51 out of US$4.0 million). The 25 percent disbursement does not
correlate to the Project’s limited achievements. For the first PDO indicator, lack of
improvement in the coverage of NAF beneficiaries (coverage of poor beneficiaries 25%
compared to 70% target) was attributed to both differences in measurement of the
baseline and lack of substantive activities. For the second PDO indicator (increase in
number of beneficiaries receiving social care services), no baseline was reported and the
Bank’s limited disbursement for the project (see section 3.2, above) is unlikely to have
generated any increase in enrollment capacity (there is no data by which to measure this,
however). Finally, no baseline was collected for beneficiary satisfaction (the third PDO
indicator); therefore, measuring overall satisfaction is not feasible.

72.      Loan disbursements were correlated to component inputs and financing
arrangements. When comparing the World Bank’s portion of expenditures to those of the
MoSD, the ratio between Bank and MoSD expenditure reflects the financing agreement.
The World Bank financed 32.4 percent of total project costs; the GOJ financed 67.7
percent.

73.     The Loan’s low disbursement is the result of the Project’s limited implementation,
and the financing of only a few, disparate activities. This was especially the case for
components where implementation challenges at the policy or inter-ministerial level
affected implementation. Only 7.3 percent of the appraised amount was actually
disbursed for Component B (Renewal of National Aid Fund). Conversely, for areas
where a number of activities were implemented, expenditure levels were higher (i.e., for
Component A 33.0 percent of the appraised allocation was disbursed). As expected, the
expenditures for Project Management represented the highest share of project
expenditures (55 percent).

                                            21
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory

74.     The Project’s Overall Outcome Rating is considered Highly Unsatisfactory.
Although its PDO continues to be relevant, challenges in the Project’s design and
implementation contributed to the unsatisfactory outcome. The Project did not succeed in
achieving its PDO, as measured by key outcome indicators. At completion, the Project
had financed only some of the inputs that would be needed to achieve the intermediate
outcomes. The project was constrained by the Government’s and implementing agencies’
limited commitment to making critical decisions and adopting new approaches, based on
the inputs financed. In addition, the World Bank’s implementation support was not
effective in working with the Government to restructure the Project in a way that its
design and implementation would support the achievement of the PDO. Consequently,
the project’s implementation was not satisfactory (given the lack of achievement of any
development objectives) and did not result in the efficiency gains that would have made it
an economically viable investment.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

75.     The Project was to target poor and vulnerable Jordanians. Nevertheless, as it
produced only minimal, if any, development outcomes. Its only impacts on poverty
reduction are remote and limited to possible future marginal impacts that may result from
assisting the DOS in improving its poverty measurement and monitoring approaches.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

76.      The Project as designed had a very strong institutional development focus, as
evident in the design of Components A and B. Nevertheless, it had very little impact, if
any, on building institutional capacity within MoSD or any of the other implementing
agencies. The capacity building activities for CCSS were implemented, but the
institution was abolished and its responsibilities transferred to MoSD; it is not clear
whether the staff trained were absorbed within MoSD. Support to DOS under
Component A (3) through the provision of training in the use of advanced statistical tools
will improve its capacity in the area of HIES. Many of the enhancement, capacity
building, training and other activities which involved establishing standards of care for
social care centers, were all uncompleted or never moved beyond the conceptualization
stage. In field visits conducted during preparation of this ICR, general managers of
residential units and social care services expressed that the Project’s activities in no way
increased their capacity to deliver more effective services to their beneficiaries. Finally,
the renewal of the NAF was never implemented, following the pilot carried out during
preparation.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

                                            22
N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

77.    The Risk to Development Outcome is High. The Project had few, if any, results
at completion. Hence, development outcomes have not and are not expected to
materialize from the Project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

78.     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory. The Project was responsive to the GOJ’s development assistance
priorities, and to the Bank’s CPS. Working with the Government, the World Bank had
carried out extensive analytical work, and the findings and recommendations of that work
were incorporated in the Project’s design. The Project’s design incorporated lessons of
experience, especially those of other countries that had tackled the same difficult issues.
However, World Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry was ineffective in
several areas. These included the definition of the Project’s institutional arrangements,
the ambitiousness of targets for key indicators in the Project’s Results Framework, the
lack of baseline data, the definition of the Project’s financial arrangements (with World
Bank disbursements at 40 percent of all expenditures), and an overestimation of
Government commitment to politically difficult decisions (including implementation of
new HR strategy, adoption of a new targeting formula, potential exclusion of NAF
beneficiaries, etc). Nevertheless, these were issues in the Project’s design that could have
been easily addressed (and some of which were, albeit belatedly) to allow the Project to
proceed towards the accomplishment of its PDO.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory

79.     Quality of Supervision is rated Highly Unsatisfactory. The Project faced
problems at entry, but not necessarily more than many projects face. These challenges
could have been addressed through intensified implementation support and early
proactive action. Instead, task management for implementation support of what had
been rated as a problem project was assigned to a rotating number of task managers (a
total of 4 task managers during implementation period of 5 years), each of which faced
the challenges of becoming familiar with the Project, the issued it faced and its

                                            23
counterparts, and that increasingly focused on the absence of a governmental decision to
modify the NAF’s targeting formula as the only issue affecting implementation.
Supervision missions failed to internalize that there was no consensus within the GOJ to
adopt PMT (and the Project did not specify PMT as an agreed methodology), especially
since there were apparently important concerns regarding the population that would lose
benefits, an issue that must have become all the more important in light of the events
sweeping through the region, and the need to change legislation that would have been
politically difficult.

80.     Differing views by changing task managers resulted in occasional optimism about
the Project’s prospects, but in reality, the Project was in problem status for over 4 years,
with little significant proactive action (restructuring) taking place only six months before
closing. Project reporting was extremely deficient: the Aide-Memoire of the Mid-term
Review (MTR) mission was never finalized, ISR reports, and were few and focusing
mostly on Component B (National Aid Fund Renewal) and the final ISR incorporates
outdated data to report on results. The main, significant document identifying progress,
issues, challenges and recommendations was the evaluation prepared by external
consultants in preparation for the MTR. Several task managers reported that the World
Bank was not willing to take stronger action to close the loan as the Project represented
an important vehicle for sectoral policy dialogue in the area of social protection. But in
retrospect, keeping the Project on the books did little even in furthering the dialogue
within the context of implementation support—the policy dialogue proceeded in parallel
to the Project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

81.     Overall Bank Performance is rated Unsatisfactory. Performance at Ensuring
Quality at Entry was Moderately Unsatisfactory, but the issues presented could have been
remedied if they had been addressed earlier, either through a major restructuring, or
through scaling down the Project, changing institutional arrangements, or reorienting
activities to only those that responded to the GOJ’s needs. The World Bank’s
implementation support somehow failed to internalize the institutional and other realities
the Project faced, was not able to document them in a comprehensive manner for the
whole of the Project, and was not receptive and willing to restructure the Project in a
proactive and timely manner. As a result, implementation support was not conducive to
supporting the adjustments that could have helped produce a satisfactory outcome.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

82.    The Government’s Performance is rated Unsatisfactory. During preparation,
the GOJ worked closely with the World Bank through analytical work, and the design of
the project mirrored diagnosis of issues as well as the Government’s policy directions.

                                            24
However, the Project was implemented in a broader environment involving several
external factors (the global economic crisis, fuel prices, Arab Spring) that affected not
only the country as a whole, but the Project. These factors, on the one hand, made the
Project’s PDO more relevant (i.e., through its expected impact on poverty), while at the
same time, they have made the Government’s ability to adopt decisions and focus on
project activities more difficult. This was in part the result in extensive staffing changes
at all levels of government and the challenges in adopting decisions that would impact a
share of the population. Thus, these factors resulted in the GoJ not being able to clearly
focus on the objectives of the project, even though its objective remained a central
component of its development priorities. The Project suffered from lack of support by
MoSD, resistance to change, and hesitancy to take high-level political decisions relating
to the Project’s objectives, and lack of communication with key stakeholders.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

83.     The implementing agencies’ performance is rated Unsatisfactory. The Project
had five main implementing agencies for purposes of this rating: MOSD, NAF, DOS,
CCSS, and the PISU (within MoSD). Each of these had varying amounts of activities
and involvement in the Project, and consequently in the eventual achievement (or not) of
its PDO. DOS and CCSS had relatively small, contained activities, and performed these
efficiently and well. While important, the influence of these activities on the achievement
of the PDO was to be relatively limited. MoSD’s performance in the implementation of
its own capacity building activities under Component A(2) and works and capacity
building under Component C fell short of expectations, mostly since MoSD staff lacked
knowledge about the Project’s objectives and components, a reflection of the weak
project communication plan. NAF management expressed resistance to adopting a new
targeting mechanism, in part because the components and objectives were not clear to
NAF staff, and in part because staff felt that a new, standard targeting methodology
would affect the level of authority of some NAF staff, particularly field managers for
deciding on who would benefit from NAF assistance. This was compounded by
management changes in NAF that resulted in the fund being without a director for almost
one year.

84.     The PISU’s performance (and its actual role in the Project) was not conducive to
good implementation. Quite apart from staffing issues, the relations between the PISU
team and MoSD management and staff were, as reported in the external evaluation
“interrupted and suffer from lack of proper interaction, cooperation and communication
tools.” The PISU did not perform well in planning project activities with responsibilities
and deliverables by component, monitoring and evaluating the Project, communicating
with key stakeholders or providing a solid management structure for the Project. The
lack of communications negatively impacted stakeholder buy-in to the Project and its
objectives. Although the PISU counted on qualified technical staff, they were not
empowered, and, were apparently perceived as highly remunerated in comparison to
MoSD staff, further isolating the PISU as a separate project unit within the Ministry.
Although the PISU itself appears to have been committed to the Project and its

                                            25
objectives, its structure, governance arrangements, the shortcomings described above and
lack of familiarity with issues that became central to the Project (targeting), precluded it
(and the Project) from accomplishing its objectives.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

85.    Overall Borrower Performance is rated Unsatisfactory. Despite the Government
and implementing agencies’ close cooperation during preparation, the issues that surfaced
during implementation, both on the side of the Government and of the implementing
agencies, and the lack of action to address them justify this rating.

6. Lessons Learned

86.    With few results, the Project offers few lessons learned on the implementation of
a social protection operation. It does, however, offer important lessons for the World
Bank in terms of how to provide implementation support for a project that is performing
well below expectations. The lessons are:

87.     Problem projects can become successful, but they require intensive
implementation support and a thorough reflection as to the very issues that affect
implementation. Several lessons are relevant. First, frequent changes in task manager
lead to discontinuity in implementation support. Since each new task manager is likely
unfamiliar with the implementation issues, the specific country, sectoral and project
context. When change in task manager is inevitable, there is need for a systematic and
smooth hand-over, Second, a problem project should not remain on the books for over
two years (at the most) without some sort of proactive action (i.e., improving,
restructuring, closing, etc.). Third, a Mid-term Review (MTR) for a project experiencing
implementation delays and issues should not be delayed because implementation is not
sufficiently advanced to review progress. To the contrary, the MTR for a problem project
should be advanced in order to address issues that are impeding implementation and
agree upon actions needed to improve it. Then, if those actions are adopted and
successful, a follow-up review, a second MTR (for lack of a better name) can be
conducted to review progress. Fourth, supervision reporting for a project facing
implementation issues should be frequent and comprehensive with respect to the entirety
of a project. Finally, restructuring should not be done for the simple sake of restructuring
a project. In the case of the Project, the restructuring was done six months before
closing, when neither the Government nor the World Bank intended to extend the Closing
Date. It was clear that, in retrospect, even with the restructuring approved in February
2013, the Project would not be able to meet its PDO or any of its revised indicators.
Restructuring can be an important tool to help reconfigure a problem project but it needs
to be timely (after an early MTR) and realistic. Alternatively, a wise decision would be to
recommend the cancellation of the project if restructuring is not feasible.

88.    Implementation Support for investment lending can be used effectively to
reinforce sectoral policy dialogue, but, unless there is clear commitment by the
                                            26
Government to sectoral policy reform, it should not be the driving force behind that
dialogue. In the context of ICR preparation, several Task Managers expressed that
despite issues in implementation, the World Bank chose to maintain a poorly performing
project on the books allegedly because it was an important vehicle in its social protection
policy dialogue with the GOJ. In reality, keeping the loan on its books did little to
advance the World Bank’s policy dialogue as the implementation support team was
apparently fixed on the sectoral issues that were to be supported by the Project, losing
sight of the bigger picture of issues and proposals the GOJ was considering. There is a
need to ensure consistency in policy dialogue across assistance instruments, and a very
clear division of roles in the policy dialogue between Task Team Leaders of ongoing
projects and those under preparation, and other World Bank staff involved in defining
and conducting policy dialogue through other vehicles, and defined work arrangements to
ensure the consistency among all involved in delivering sectoral assistance. In the case
of the Project, perhaps, if implementation support had benefited on the inputs of a
broader social protection policy dialogue, at the highest levels, it could have internalized
the constraints, issues, priorities and realities the GOJ faced, as well its commitment or
not to sectoral policies, and in response taken appropriate proactive action to ensure a
satisfactory outcome for the Project. Conversely, if the sectoral policy environment is
not appropriate, it does not make sense to keep a project open for “policy dialogue”
purposes; non-lending technical assistance would probably represent the assistance
vehicle of choice.

89.     One size does not fit all with respect to targeting of social protection assistance.
PMT may be considered the best standard in targeting methodology, specifically for its
ability to predict poverty status and ranking all beneficiaries in a given registry.
However, PMT is not the only acceptable and not always the appropriate method of
targeting. In many countries a combination of various targeting mechanisms are used
(e.g. geographical, categorical, community, PMT). The World Bank’s implementation
support focused almost exclusively on adoption of PMT, at the expense of addressing
implementation of other components and the issues the Project was facing, without
realizing both that the Government had serious issues with the methodology. The Project
under implementation lost an opportunity to engage with the Government in the broadest
sense and to help in consensus building, in the context of implementation support for the
Project, on discussion of alternative methodologies, demonstrating flexibility in terms of
different means of achieving very similar objectives, i.e., improved targeting efficiency.

90.      Combining what is in effect policy conditionality in an investment
loan/credit/grant should only be done in the context of a clear commitment by the
Government. Not only should there be upfront agreement on any policy conditionality
(i.e., improve targeting, etc.), but also there should be upfront agreement on process and
methodology for how the reform will take place (i.e., PMT targeting mechanisms
adopted), accounting for institutional buy-in and capacity to implement at all levels.

91.    Poor institutional arrangements can have an adverse impact on the prospects
for success in project implementation. To expect a project implementation unit, staffed
by mostly outside consultants who both play a role of coordinating as well as directing

                                            27
the project implementation, was unrealistic. The PISU was not expected to succeed in
engaging several agencies in actually implementing a project while there was no support
at the higher level or commitment across relevant agencies for realizing reform during the
timespan of the project. Even with limited institutional capacity, it is generally best to
have project implementation entrusted to those agencies that are actually responsible for
the activities being carried out, with support provided directly to them by outside
consultants if needed, and with a coordination unit to facilitate handling of administrative
requirements only.

92.     Social protection projects, especially those that aim at increasing the efficiency
of existing systems, in particular cash transfer programs, face large challenges when
exogenous factors impact the livelihoods of the covered population. These exogenous
factors may increase the relevance of a government’s social protection policies and
programs, by increasing the number of people who may expect and require government
assistance. Yet, it is this very increased relevance that makes any effort to promote
greater targeting efficiency more needed (in terms of fiscal sustainability) but more
difficult to implement (in terms of popular reaction). Especially in an environment of
increasing protests, it is difficult to expect that any government would have the political
wherewithal to exclude some beneficiaries from existing programs under these
circumstances.
93.      Building Institutional capacity in implementing agencies presents challenges
between utilizing government civil servants or relying on external consultants. The
Bank’s fiduciary policies require compliance with, preparation and submission of,
documentation for which government civil servants often do not have the capacity to
fulfill. However, exclusive reliance on external consultants to fulfill these fiduciary
requirements, results in little capacity building for civil servants. This presents a dilemma
for Bank implementation of projects with Ministries that have limited fiduciary capacity.
On the one hand, fiduciary compliance is needed, but on the other hand, delegation of
tasks to ministries can build capacity. Therefore, careful attention should be given to
designing of contracting arrangements for external consultants; the design both ensure
fiduciary compliance as well as provide a capacity building opportunity for involved
implementation agencies.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
No Comments or reaction from the Government was received.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                             28
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

     (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

     Component                 Appraisal                            Actual/ Latest Percentage                       of
                               Estimate12                           Estimate       Appraisal
                               (USD                                 (USD millions)
                               millions)
        A. MoSD, CCSS and 1.2                                       0.396                     33.0%
            DoS       Capacity
            Building
        B. National Aid Fund 1.1                                    0.080                     7.3%
            Renewal
        C. Social        Care 1.4                                   0.325                     23.2%
            Services
            Upgrading
        D. Project             0.3                                  0.165                     55.0%
            Management
                               4.0                                  0.967                     24.1%
     Total Baseline Cost
     Physical Contingencies    Not specified                        Not specified             -
     Price Contingencies       Not specified                        Not specified             -
     Front-end Fee             0.01                                 0.01                      10.0%
     Front-end Fee IBRD        NA                                   NA                        -
     Total Financing Required 4.0                                   -                         -


 (b) Financing

                                                           Appraisal               Actual/Late
                                               Type of Co- Estimate                st Estimate Percentage of
Source of Funds
                                               financing (USD                      (USD        Appraisal
                                                           millions)               millions)

 Borrower                                                        6.9               2.02              29.3%

International Bank for
                                                                 4.00              0.967             24.1%
Reconstruction and Development




12
  Table (a) reflects the appraised and actual expenditure amounts of the Bank’s contribution only. Physical and Price
Contingencies were for the overall project cost, and therefore not listed in the table.
                                                          29
Annex 2. Full Description of Project’s Original Components

Component A: Institutional Development and Capacity Building for Social Safety Net
Policies Formulation and Implementation (Estimated Total Cost US$3.3 million, Bank
financing US$1.2 million). This component aimed at strengthening and developing
institutions involved in analysis, design, coordination, monitoring and evaluation and
implementation of social safety net policies and programs, so that they perform their
function and deliver services efficiently and effectively. This component included three
sub-components:

Sub-component A (1): Capacity Building of the CCSS. The Project would assist in
building the CCSS capacity to apply qualitative and quantitative methods in researching
social issues of relevance for social policy development and where information gaps were
identifies. Standard statistical packages such as STATA and SPSS would be purchased
and relevant staff trained in their use.

Sub-component A (2): Strengthening Institutional and Human Resource Capacity of the
MoSD. This sub-component was to assist MoSD in strengthening and further developing
its capacity to formulate, regulate and implement social development and safety net
policies and programs through: (i) formulation of the MoSD strategic development plan;
(ii) transformation of the MoSD local offices into a one-stop shop for implementation of
an integrated approach to service provision with focus on inclusion and activation of the
poor and vulnerable population; (iii) development and implementation of monitoring and
evaluation function; (iv) strengthening of the policy analysis and development unit of the
MoSD; and (v) upgrading and further development of the existing MoSD management
information system (MIS) into a real time WAN and a LAN, including a comprehensive
database on vulnerable populations and beneficiaries of the MoSD programs. The
database was to be linked in real time to other major databases relevant for the MoSD
work and was to feed into the integrated social data system that would be managed and
maintained by the CCSS. This sub-component would also support building of the MoSD
human resource competencies, including: (i) a formulation of a strategy for the MoSD
human resource development with detailed implementation plan, and (ii) a number of
training activities to implement the plan, including to strengthen and develop relevant
staff capacities to assess and analyze social problems; formulate social development and
safety net policies; develop legal framework; plan, coordinate, manage and monitor
MoSD activities and programs; use MIS system; perform day-to-day tasks better, and
others.

Sub-component A (3): Strengthening the Capacity of the Department of Statistics
(DOS). This sub-component was to support strengthening of the household data
collection and capacity building for poverty measurement and monitoring. Activities
would include introduction into the DOS operations of (i) a standard software platform
for statistical data entry and data management (e.g., BLASE, SPSS DATA ENTRY, etc.),
and (ii) a standard software for data cleaning and data imputations. Standard software
packages for statistical data analysis (e.g., STATA, SPSS, etc.) would be provided and
staff trained in using them routinely as a tool for data processing, reporting and analysis.
                                            30
Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), software for portable devices during enumeration
phase of the household budget survey would be introduced. Relevant DOS staff would
be trained in construction of consumption aggregate, poverty lines estimates and
simulations, poverty and inequality measurement techniques, methodology for estimating
value of home produced goods, and price collection methodology and calculation of price
indices.

Component B: Renewal of the National Aid Fund (Estimated Total Cost US$2.9 million,
Bank financing US$1.1 million). This component aimed to improve the operations and
management, coverage of the targeted poor population and targeting efficiency and
effectiveness of the cash assistance extended to the population through the NAF. An
automated, live, up-to-date database on poor and vulnerable population in Jordan would
be established and functioning; the NAF staff would have improved skills to perform
their tasks, and NAF would have the capacity to monitor delivery of assistance and carry
out knowledge-based adjustments in both targeting and implementation arrangements.
This component included the following activities:

   a) Implementation of an MIS to Support Establishment of a Database on Poor and
      Vulnerable Population and to Improve Targeting. NAF MIS was to use
      information and communication technology (ICT) as a means of achieving
      transparent, efficient and effective and client oriented service delivery. The
      activities were to include: (i) Installation of MIS-related hardware and voice and
      data communications at the central and in local NAF offices; (ii) MIS-related
      software development and implementation at the central and in the local offices;
      (iii) capacity development for hardware maintenance and software support and
      development; (iv) linking NAF with other data bases in the country for cross
      checks and verification of information on households; (v) linking NAF with
      institutions handling the payment of assistance to beneficiaries (post offices,
      banks, etc.) and (vi) training of the staff to use the MIS. Using WAN and LAN
      connection, local NAF offices, NAF headquarters and all NAF departments would
      be linked into an integrated MIS. The feasibility of the use of smart card
      technology would be examined and, if appropriate, would be introduced for
      delivery of assistance in those parts of Jordan where public access to financial
      institutions and their Automated Teller Machines was possible. The NAF data
      base and the MIS was to feed into/be part of the national integrated social data
      system to be managed by the CCSS.
   b) Strengthening NAF Technical, Administrative and Benefit Delivery Capacity.
      This activity was to include the establishment and capacity building of a technical
      and analytical unit, training of manager, training of the local offices staff, training
      of accountants and financial officers and improvements in financial management
      system, diversification of modes of delivering assistance to beneficiaries (smart
      cards, bank accounts, etc.). The staff in local MOSD offices not involved in
      performing NAF benefits related tasks would also be included in training
      activities relevant for their jobs (accounting, financial management, office
      management, etc.). This would also include support for collection of information
      from households for the database on poor and vulnerable population.

                                            31
   c) Improving Targeting through, but not limited to: (i) improved implementation
      and administrative arrangements; (ii) streamlined business processes; (iii)
      strengthened monitoring of staff performance; (iv) development of an operations
      manual to guide staff performance and timely and orderly execution of business
      processes; (v) strengthened collection of information on applicant households;
      (vi) strengthened eligibility testing procedures, including cross-checks and
      verification of information; (vii) streamlined complaints and applications renewal
      procedures; (viii) staff training; and (ix) planning and implementation of public
      information programs related to the NAF programs.

Component C: Improving Access to and Quality of Social Work and Care Services
(Estimated Total Cost US$3.8 million, Bank financing US$1.4 million). This component
aimed to improve access to and quality of services to vulnerable groups such as persons
with disabilities, women and children in difficult circumstances, dysfunctional families,
youth with behavioral problems, youth in conflict with law, etc. It would support the
MoSD in implementing a number of actions envisaged in the GOJ’s strategies targeting
vulnerable groups (Section 1.1). Under this component, MoSD would develop core
standards of social care, adopt an action plan for their implementation, and launch its
implementation. The capacity of service providers to provide better care and
rehabilitation would be strengthened, family centered, community based care and
rehabilitation model would be piloted, service options available to vulnerable populations
in six localities would be increased to include family counseling and a referral system,
and monitoring and evaluation would be introduced. This component included the
following activities:

   a) Developing Standards of Service and Monitoring Mechanism for Compliance
      with Standards. The MoSD would be assisted in developing core standards of
      services for a number of vulnerable groups and variety of institutions. The
      standards were to be adhered to by all providers, public and private, and were to
      serve as a basis for licensing service providers. The Project was to support: (i) an
      assessment and update of the existing standards; (ii) the development of the key
      missing standards, including those regarding physical facilities, equipment, staff
      qualifications and technical content of services provided by different institutions;
      (iii) training of the relevant MoSD staff in standards development and
      compliance; (iv) dissemination, including printing materials, organizing
      workshops, etc., and (v) setting up a mechanism for monitoring the compliance
      with standards.
   b) Upgrading the Model of Care in Three Residential Care Institutions. For
      residential care, the Project was to support transformation to a more
      individualized and family-like setting model. The new care model would
      emphasize outreach and family involvement in the provision of services; the
      services would be provided based on individual care and rehabilitation plans and
      case management approach in their implementation. In addition to upgrading the
      programs, the Project would support improvements in the centers’ governance
      and management organization and practice. The centers’ management reform
      was expected to be an integral part of upgrading the model of care.

                                           32
c) Piloting of the ISSC. The Project would support piloting of three ISSCs. These
   centers were expected to fill in the gap in social work, care and rehabilitation
   services in Jordan that pertained to the scarcity of professional counseling for
   vulnerable individuals and families and lacked an integrated approach to the
   provision of services through an organized, well-functioning referral system. The
   ISSCs would be piloted in three localities, one in the North of Jordan, the second
   in the South, and the third in Amman. The Project was to finance setting up of
   the centers, including: refurbishment of facilities; preparation of an operational
   manual that would guide operations and provision of services and would include
   terms of reference for staff and methodological guidelines and instructions;
   training of staff; equipment; vehicles; technical assistance and operating costs for
   two years of operations. In the final year of project implementation, the financing
   of ISSCs would be assumed by the MoSD. The establishment of the ISSCs was
   to be documented and their functioning and performance evaluated by a third
   party, as well as by the MoSD. The lessons learned would be taken into account
   for improvements in their functioning, as well as for their national roll out.
d) Piloting of the RIC for Persons with Disabilities. The Project was to establish
   three RICs that would be used as focal points to develop and strengthen services
   for persons with disabilities through a community-based rehabilitation approach.
   These focal points would serve as a “one-stop-shop” for persons or organization
   of persons with disabilities. In cooperation with community-based and disabled
   persons’ organizations, community workers were to be identifies to be part of a
   network of trained individuals able to support persons with disability, their
   families and caretakers, and to find appropriate solutions to removal of barriers to
   independence and inclusion of persons with disabilities. The Project was to
   finance the setting up of the center, including: refurbishment of facilities,
   preparation of an operational manual that would guide functioning of the centers
   and provision of services, training of the centers’ staff, master trainers and
   community rehabilitation workers; equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and
   operating costs for two years of operations. In the final year of project
   implementation, the financing of RICs would be assumed by the MoSD. The
   process of establishment of the centers would be monitored and documented and
   their functioning and performance assessed by a third party, as well as by the
   MOSD. The lessons learned would be taken into account for improvements in
   their functioning, as well as for their national roll out. The location of the centers
   was to be decided by the MOSD, based on the then recently completed census of
   persons with disability in areas with the highest concentration of persons with
   disability.
e) Piloting MoSD Social Innovations Program. The Project was to assist the MoSD
   in designing a competitive program that would provide seed money for
   implementation of innovative projects in social work, care and rehabilitation. The
   fund was to be open to all public and private service providers and would
   encourage public-private partnership. The Project would support technical
   assistance for the program design and would finance the innovations grants for the
   first year of the program’s implementation. The MoSD was planning to attract
   other donors’ contributions to the program.

                                         33
Component D: Project Management (Estimated Total Cost US$0.8 million, Bank
financing US$0.3 million). This component aimed to strengthen the capacity of the
MOSD and other institutions involved in project implementation (NAF, CCSS and DOS)
to efficiently and effectively implement the Project, while adhering to the Bank’s
fiduciary requirements, particularly with respect to procurement and financial
management. The Project contemplated that when technical assistance was utilized, it
was to be delivered in close collaboration with relevant departments/individuals, so that
the transfer of knowledge and hands-on training materialized immediately.




                                           34
      Annex 3. Comparison Table of Original and Restructured Project Components, Financing, and Output

            ITEM                           ORIGINAL (PAD)                                   Revised (RP)                            ACTUAL AT CLOSING
Loan amount (in millions of    4.0                                         3.18                                                            .968
US dollars)
% IBRD Financing of Project    36.6%                                       100%                                           N/A
Project Development            “to improve the management and              Unchanged                                      N/A
Objectives                     operations of the cash social assistance
                               programs and to improve the access to and
                               quality of social care services.”
Project Component: A                                                       RESTRUCTURED
(Institutional Development
and Capacity Building for            (1) Capacity Building of the                 (1) Subcomponent completed                        (1) N/A. CCSS committee was
SSN Policies Formulation and             Coordination Commission for                                                                    dissolved in 2010. (No
Implementation)                          Social Solidarity                                                                              information is available on
                                     (2) Strengthening Institutional and          (2) Cancelled                                         level of support).
                                         Human resource Capacity of the                                                             (2) (i) Strategic Development plan
                                         MoSD                                                                                           developed by consultant.
                                     (3) Strengthening the capacity of            (3) Some activity occurred, remaining                 However, ICR visit shows that
                                         DoS                                          “advanced poverty analysis work”                  the plan was not adopted by the
                                                                                      cancelled                                         Ministry. Human Resource
                                                                                                                                        Strategy was not adopted. (ii)
                                                                                                                                        No evidence of changes in
                                                                                                                                        business operations at local
                                                                                                                                        offices following ICR field
                                                                                                                                        visit (iii) M&E Unit was not
                                                                                                                                        established. (iv) No trainings
                                                                                                                                        were carried out for new HR
                                                                                                                                        strategy (v) Some IT and
                                                                                                                                        software up-grading purchases
                                                                                                                                        were made.
                                                                                                                                    (3) STATA and SPSS software
                                                                                                                                        licenses have been purchased
                                                                                                                                        and staff trained. PDAs were
                                                                                                                                        purchased and will be used for
                                                                                                                                        data entry.
Project Component: B                 (1) Implementation of a MIS to        RESTRUCTURED
(Renewal of the National Aid             support database on poor and                                                           (a) (i) completion of a pilot involving



                                                                                  35
Fund)                            vulnerable population and to           (a) designing/implementing a more efficient          about 7500 households; (ii)
                                 improve targeting                     system of targeting the poor (e.g., PMT), and         updating of the PMT targeting
                             (2) Strengthening NAF Technical           developing an MIS system                              formula utilizing the 2008 HIES;
                                 Administrative and Benefit            (b) developing efficient systems (financial           and (iii) revisions of the PMT and
                                 Delivery Capacity                     management/business processes, etc.) to               NAF questionnaires.
                             (3) Improving targeting                   administer the NAF program,                       (b) No information
                                                                       (c) building human resource/institutional         (c) No information
                                                                       capacity

                                                                       All the remaining activities under (b), (c) and
                                                                       (d) related to improving the current targeting
                                                                       system and related business processes will
                                                                       continue, while activities under (a)
                                                                       pertaining to implementation of the new
                                                                       PMT targeting will be cancelled as this
                                                                       targeting mechanism was not approved by
                                                                       the Government.

Project Component C                                                    RESTRUCTURED                                          (1) Sub-component completed
(Improving Access to and                                                                                                         prior to restructuring. No
Quality of Social Work and                                                                                                       indication of adoption of
Care Services)               (1) Developing standards of services          (1) Subcomponent completed                            standards during field visit and
                                 and monitoring mechanism for                                                                    interviews at ICR
                                 compliance with standards
                                                                                                                             (2) 3 centers received funding.
                             (2) Upgrading the model of care in            (2) Ongoing (at time of restructuring)                Amount of financing was
                                 three residential care institutions                                                             limited to transform the three
                                                                                                                                 centers. All centers adopted
                             (3) Piloting of the integrated Social         (3) Reduced to 1 pilot center                         residential care models through
                                 Service Centers (ISSC)                                                                          MoSD funding.

                             (4) Piloting of the Resource and              (4) Reduced to 1 pilot center                     (3) No ISSC functional. However,
                                 Information Centers (RIC) for                                                                   a consulting firm was hired
                                 Persons with Disabilities                                                                       during the project to work with
                                                                                                                                 MOSD on the ISSCs. The firm
                             (5) Piloting MoSD Social Innovation           (5) “all activities pertaining to Social              finalized the locations of each
                                 Program                                       Innovation Fund were cancelled”                   center, and designed the centers
                                                                                                                                 accordingly.
                                                                                                                             (4) One firm was selected for



                                                                           36
                                                                                                                                         rehabilitation and the awarded
                                                                                                                                         contract. Work was completed.
                                                                                                                                         Building abandoned as the
                                                                                                                                         rehabilitated space was below
                                                                                                                                         local building code standards
                                                                                                                                         for persons with disability.
                                                                                                                                    (5) N/A
Project Component D (Project   Strengthen capacity of the MoSD and          The project will support the hiring of a       At closing, the Project did not have a Project
Management)                    other institutions involved in project       project director and procurement office, and   Director. High Turn-over was cited during
                               implementation to efficiently and            will continue with the M&E activities.         ICR interviews as a hurdle to
                               effectively implement the proposed project                                                  implementation. MoSD employed civil
                                                                                                                           servants for procurement and FM functions.
Financing Arrangements                Specific Investment Loan (SIL) is            Fully finance the project             N/A
                                       the instrument to support the                Cancel US$831,797 from the loan
                                       modernization program.                        amount – revised amount $3.18M
                                   IBRD financed US$4.0 including
                                       retroactive financing of
                                       US$400,000. Total estimated
                                       project cost for SPEP is
                                       US$10.9M
Institutional and                  MoSD responsible for the overall                Additional fiduciary management               At closing the FM and Procurement
Implementation                         project implementation. PISU to               by FM and procurement specialist               specialists were civil servants from
Arrangements, FM, and                  lead the work headed by                       (consultants).                                 MoSD
procurement                            Secretary General. PISU is                   New FM Consultant hired                       FM and Procurement were rated
                                       responsible for FM, procurement,             Revision of procurement practices              moderately unsatisfactory
                                       TORs, announcing bids,                        and bidding standards.
                                       organizing evaluation, and project
                                       planning.
                                   Hiring includes: Project Director,
                                       Project Assistant, FM,
                                       Procurement Specialist.
Closing date                   August 31, 2013                              Unchanged                                      Closed on August 31, 2013




                                                                                37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                           Title               Unit
                                                                       Specialty

Lending

                                                                     Program
Afifa Alia Achsien        Senior Program Assistant          MNSHD
                                                                     assistant

Ghassan N. Alkhoja        Senior Operations Officer         MNSSP    Operations

                                                                     Financial
Diana C. El Masri         Consultant                        MNAFM
                                                                     Management

Lina Fares                Senior Procurement Specialist     MNAPC Procurement

Iqbal Kaur                Sr Social Protection Specialist   MNSSP    Co-TTL

Michael M. Lokshin        Manager                           DECRG    Technical

Aleksandra Posarac        Country Sector Coordinator        EASHS    TTL

Haneen Ismail Sayed       Lead Operations Officer           MNSSP    HD Coordinator

Hjalte S. A. Sederlof     Consultant                        IEGPS    Technical

Eileen Brainne Sullivan   Health Specialist                 EASHH    Operations



Supervision/ICR

Name                      Title                             Unit     Responsibility

Aleksandra Posarac        Country Sector Coordinator        EASHS    TTL

Haneen Ismail Sayed       Lead Operations Office            MNSSP    HD Coordinator

Eileen Murray             Country Manager                   MNC01    TTL

Lire Ersado               Sr. Economist                     MNSSP    TTL

Afifa Alia Achsien        Senior Program Assistant          MNSHD Operations

Ghassan N. Alkhoja        Senior Operations Officer         MNSSP    Operations


                                           38
Robert Bou Jaoude         Program Coordinator               SACPK   Operations

Amy Champion              Operations Analyst                MNSHH Operations

Lina Fares                Senior Procurement Specialist     MNAPC Operations

Iqbal Kaur                Sr Social Protection Specialist   MNSSP   TTL

Renata Lukasiewicz        Program Assistant                 CPFCI   Operations

                          Sr Financial Management
Jad Raji Mazahreh                                           MNAFM Operations
                          Specialist

Eileen Brainne Sullivan   Health Specialist                 EASHH   Technical

Setareh Razmara           Lead Social Protection Specialist MNSSP   ICR TTL/ Lead

                                                                    ICR Co- Leader
Amr Moubarak              Social Protection Economist       MNSSP
                                                                    / Co-author

Suzana Abbott             Consultant                        MNSSP   ICR co-author

(b) Staff Time and Cost

Stage of Project Cycle      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                            Number of staff weeks      USD Thousands
                                                       (including travel and
                                                       consultant costs)
Lending
FY07                        45.0                                          230,419.06
FY08                        36.0                                          224,470.56
FY09                        13.8                                           62,510.95
FY10                        12.6                                           58,116.47
FY12                        3.7                                            15,933.63
Total                       111.2                                         591,450.67
Supervision/ICR
FY09                        3.8                                           30,866.64
FY10                        11.6                                          78,033.41
FY11                        15.7                                          90,645.38
FY12                        13.3                                         116,973.20
FY13                        19.6                                          96,065.90
FY14                        10.7                                          66,736.39
Total                       74.7                                         527,686.90
Lending and Supervision                                                1,119,137.57
Total


                                         39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not Applicable




                                      40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
None




                                   41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

 “An Evaluation of the Social Protection Enhancement Project from the view of the
                             Government of Jordan”13

                                      Prepared December 2013
                                    Ministry of Social Development
Introduction:

1.      The Government of Jordan agreed to a project for the total amount of $ 10.880
million US which was to be financed by the World Bank in amount of US $4.0 million
totaling around 40%. The remaining amount was financed by MoSD. The agreement was
signed on 8 July 2008.

2.      The project has three major goals: i) enhancement of the capacity of the ministry,
ii) improvement of targeting mechanisms for the poor, iii) improvement of social care
centers.


3.     To that end the project had 4 components: A) Enhancement of the institutional
capacity of the ministry for social projection, B) Renewal and modernization of the
National Aid Fund, C) Enhancement of the capacities for social care for women and
children, D) Project management of the Social Protection Enhancement Project.

Overall accomplishments of the project from effectiveness until restructuring:

Component 1: Update the National Assistance Fund
A. Enhancement of the Capacity of Ministry of Social Development

4.       Social Solidarity Coordination Commission (SSCC): The commission
component was responsible for purchase of SPSS for DOS. The commission also
appointed an expert on poverty to enhance the capacity of the coordination commission.
The commission also received trainings to increase its overall capacity. However the
commission was disbanded and it became a part of the ministry’s overall structure.
5.       Department of Statistics: This component also move forward with purchase of
statistical packages. The Project also financed the purchase of 75 PDA for enumeration in
a mobile way on the ground. Some of the DoS employees also received training from the


13
  Editor’s note: This is an English summary of the original report which was prepared by Ministry of Social
Development (MoSD) in Arabic and was received by the World Bank on 2/24/2014. The original Arabic report is 32
pages in length and was filed on WB Documentation Database (WBDocs). The summary includes some editorial
revisions.
                                                      42
project. Some of the project participants were also given the opportunity to attend
trainings in Egypt.

6.     The project also spent on recruitment of a statistics expert and a procurement
consultant in the purchase of some of the goods for the project (including the furnishing
of a computer lab in DoS).

7.     Building the Capacity of the Ministry in Human Resources and Monitoring
and Evaluation : The project attempted to recruit an expert in human resources since
2010, however an expert was only hired in March 2011. The Project Implementation Unit
requested that the Bank raises the budget for this component (and payment of expert from
$50,000 to 100,000 US). This came after the Minister approved this. This was not
approved by the World Bank.

8.      Although the World Bank did not approve the increase the allocation of this
component in the project it did contribute in this component in the following ways: i) A
ministerial strategy was developed for servicing cases of delinquent and special needs
kids ii) A national strategy was developed for servicing cases of orphan children iii)
Recruitment of a Monitoring and Evaluation expert (which was paid for by the ministry).

9.      Building the Capacity of the Ministry in MIS: The project moved forward with
the appointment of an MIS consultant to work on increasing the capacity of the
technology and information department of the ministry. The main duties of the consultant
were: i) connect MoSD and NAF with a global server network managed by the Ministry
of Telecommunication ii) Provide a study of the needs to modernize the ministry’s
information systems, iii) Provide a study and recommendations on the needs of the
provincial offices of the ministry, iv) provide a study of the needs of the headquarters
offices of the ministry.

10.     A second consultant was also hired to manage the overall operations of the
implementation. However this work was hindered since it did not have an allocation in
the budget. Alternatively, some of the assistance from this component went to provide
similar studies to NAF. There, NAF leadership appointed a consultant. The consultant
reported on the preliminary steps needed to provide services and register cases via MIS.
11.     60 ministerial processes were also expected to be modernized over the course of
the project. This modernization process involved the purchase of a number of computer
programs at regional offices, as well as the purchase of servers and there was allocation
for funding for training to increase the capacity. However, these processes were not
modernized at the time of the writing of the report.

Component 2: Renewal the National Assistance Fund
                                           43
B. Modernization of Targeting Mechanism for the National Aid Fund

12.     Phase 1 – Pilot phase: During the early phases of the project, NAF brought in a
local expert to develop a PMT formula based on the 2006 Household Income and
Expenditure Survey. The expert specified 75 variables in determining the poverty level of
households using the formula. Accordingly, the ministry hired a private software firm to
put the PMT formula into the NAF database.

13.    In 2009, NAF moved forward with developing a survey questionnaire for 100,000
families and the appointment of 50 social outreach workers to collect and input the
information in the NAF database for purposes of targeting. Between 2009- 2010, Social
Workers brought 7,500 household questionnaire. This pilot was discussed with the World
Bank.

Main outcomes of pilot phase were: i) discussion of graduation and case handling
mechanism for those excluded ii) Upgrading of formula used to determine eligibility of
beneficiaries starting in 2008, iii) World Bank insisted on using a shorter survey of no
more than 67 variables and that field visits are a part of evaluation, iv) World Bank team
agreed to evaluate the 2008 formula for use in NAF targeting.

14.     Phase 2 - Using 2008 Data for Targeting: NAF went forward with using the
HEIS data of 2008 as a way to improve its overall targeting. In 2010, a local expert
presented a new PMT formula using 75 variables to identify and target poor households.
The expert also presented overall estimates of the costs for administration of programs to
reduce poverty in Jordan. This was presented and discussed with the Council of Ministers
after consultation with the World Bank.

15.     Main outcomes of Phase 2: i) a new questionnaire was developed, which was
divided into two questionnaires for both house visit and at center applications, ii) A draft
operational manual for training social workers on the new questionnaire was developed,
iii) The project implementation unit requested of the Council of Ministers to appoint
Outreach Workers to move forward with house visits (the council later rejected the
proposal), iv) Council of Ministers approval was attained, however, for a communication
campaign so that the public understands the new formula developed.

16.     Phase 3- Scenario Planning Phase: During this phase, the ministry was aware
that in order to close the poverty gap JD 105.5 million per year is needed based on the
2008 data. This is with the assumption that the medium expenditure of NAF beneficiary
is JD 23 per month. This required an increase of JD 16 million in the budget. Further,
recommendations were cited that NAF can be used as a utility for cash compensation of

                                            44
subsidies. In fact, utilization of NAF would provide JD 200 million in savings. This was
in agreement with the World Bank expert.

17.     These recommendations were discussed at length with the Secretary General of
MoF. To that end, MoF and NAF agree on the following next steps: i) roll-out of a public
awareness and communication campaign, ii) education of the NAF employees on their
potential change in responsibilities, iii)beginning of a pilot communication campaign in 3
areas to explain the new PMT formula. The gradual approach for introduction of a new
targeting formula was accepted and consultations with the parliament and media were en
route. The work was stopped by the Minister of Social Development at a later stage.

18.    Concurrent activity – enhancement of MIS for NAF: The project went forward
with enhancement of the overall MIS of NAF. This was done after a rapid needs
assessment in 2010. Some purchases of hardware and software were secured.

Component 3: Improve the Quality and Methods of Obtaining Services and Social
Welfare
D. Modernization of Social Care Services to residential fashion

19.      There centers received some assistance in furnishing and reconstruction. They
were: i) Madaba center for incidents (rented property minimum assistance received given
that it is not owned), ii)Irbid Center work stopped due to security incidents in center,
however, some renovation was done, iii) Girls Center in Resayfeh: this contract was not
completely carried out and was therefore partially procured by the contracted company,
iv) trainings for employees in the three centers on principals of residential social care was
envisioned, however, the contract did not move forward.

F. Establishment of Centers for Integrated Social Service Delivery (3 Centers)

20.    The ministry identified 3 centers to be renovated into integrated social service
delivery centers. They were Umm Nuwarah in Amman, Rehsyifeh Center in Amman, and
Karameh Center in Aqaba.

21.     A company (Maharah Consulting) was hired to develop the standards of
operations and training manuals for the employees of the newly envisioned integrated
service centers. However, the contract was partially suspended in 2012 after standards of
operations were submitted and some training material. This was due to the inability of the
ministry to provide the needed human resources and capacity to receive training from the
hired firm and to restructure these 3 centers. The contract was also partially suspended
the project restructuring effort which was proposed by the Bank. This included the
reduction of number of centers (from 3 to 1). The contract was finally closed.

                                             45
G. Establishment of Information Centers for the Disabled (3 Centers)
22.     There were three centers under consideration for this component: i) Manar Center
in Rehsyifeh (only renovation to center, no furnishings purchased), ii) Manar Center in
Irbid (contract stopped), iii) Disabled Persons Center in Aqaba (new center built and it
needed little renovation assistance).

H. Social Innovation Fund
23.     A special committee was created to follow-up on issues related to standards for
service of private charities and organizations that apply to the innovation fund. The social
innovation fund was later consolidated to become part of the working of the Charities
Fund to streamline implementation.




                                            46
	
Annex 7 - Table 1: Social Protection Enhancement Project – activities under
original and restructured project14

Original Project                            Restructured Project                   Explanation

             Component 1: Institution development and capacity building
1.1 Coordinating body for    1.1 Coordinating body for  No change, activities were
social solidarity (CCCSS)    social solidarity          completed and the
                                                        coordinating body for social
                                                        solidarity no longer exists
1.2 Ministry of Social       Cancelled                  For more than two years,
Development: Human                                      the ministry of Social
resource development plan;                              Development did not
establishment of a                                      approve the
monitoring and evaluation                               subcomponents’ contracts
unit, and management                                    and action plans
information system (MIS)
                                                        There is no clear evidence
                                                        that there is ownership and
                                                        that the Ministry of Social
                                                        Development will continue
                                                        circulating the results of
                                                        these activities in the same
                                                        manner.
1.3 Department of Statistics Cancelled                  The government does not
                                                        plan to utilize the funds for
                                                        the remaining activities
                                                        under the sub-components
                                                        of the department of
                                                        statistics

                Component 2: Renewal the National Assistance Fund
2.1 Database and Targeting  Database and Targeting     No change

Planning Mechanism                          Cancelled                              This activity is related to
                                                                                   the adoption of the
                                                                                   targeting test based in
                                                                                   family expenditure,
                                                                                   therefore there is no need
                                                                                   for the adoption of the
                                                                                   above-mentioned previous
                                                                                   test.
Planning instructions,                      Cancel: printed models                 Only some outstanding

14
     The next two tables of this summary are translated fully as presented by the Government.
                                                            47
printed models, media                                     activities to continue to
campaigns, and availability   Keep: Awareness             provide strong ownership
of training                   campaigns and               and ability to unite the
managers/supervisors          development instructions    National Assistance Fund

                              Add: Stationary
Collecting household          Cancelled                   This activity is related to
information                                               the adoption of the
                                                          targeting test based in
                                                          family expenditure,
                                                          therefore there is no need
                                                          for the adoption of the
                                                          above-mentioned previous
                                                          test.
Monitoring and Evaluation     Monitoring and Evaluation   No change,
unit                          unit
                                                          Only some outstanding
                                                          activities to continue to
                                                          provide strong ownership
                                                          and ability to unite the
                                                          National Assistance Fund

National Assistance Fund      Cancelled                   This activity is related to
survey measures                                           the adoption of the
                                                          targeting test based in
                                                          family expenditure,
                                                          therefore there is no need
                                                          for the adoption of the
                                                          above-mentioned previous
                                                          test.
2.2 Management                Cancel: Independent         outstanding activities to
Information Systems           evaluation of third party   continue to provide strong
                                                          ownership and ability to
                              Keep: all remaining         unite the National
                                                          Assistance Fund
                              Add: Conservation
                              (Archiving)

2.3 National Assistance       National Assistance Fund    No change,
Fund capacity building        capacity building
                                                          Only some outstanding
                                                          activities to continue to
                                                          provide strong ownership
                                                          and ability to unite the
                                                          National Assistance Fund


                                          48
   Component 3: Improve the quality and methods of obtaining services and social
                                     welfare
3.1 Development of basic   Completed
standards of services

3.2 Update forms of care in   Keep three welfare centers     No change,
three welfare centers
                                                             Continue and resume
                                                             related activities
3.3 Establish three integrated Keep one center and cancel    One center in Amman,
social service centers         two                           which will continue to
                                                             benefit from renewing the
                                                             work of the remaining
                                                             activities under the project.

                                                             Cancel the project support
                                                             of the other two centers as
                                                             there has been no decision
                                                             on employment in the long-
                                                             term
3.4 Establish three           Keep one information           Continue renewing and
information centers for the   center for the disabled, and   hiring at the Rasefia
disabled as part of the       cancel the other two           (Almanar) center and
ministry of Social                                           benefit from the revenues
Development                                                  of the project according to
                                                             the plan.

                                                             Cancel project support for
                                                             the other two centers (they
                                                             have not been identified),
                                                             and decisions were not
                                                             made with regards to long-
                                                             term employment


3.5 Social Innovation Fund    Cancelled                      Lack of ownership and
                                                             improvement


                        Component 4: Project Management
4.1 ministry of Social      Keep: Project manager and Continue hiring for the
Development administration Procurement Officer           remaining period of the
                                                         project
Project manager, Monitoring Cancel: Financial officer, ,
and Evaluation officer,     Project management

                                          49
Procurement Officer, Project   assistant, and secretary
management assistant, and
secretary

4.2 Technical unit in the                                  No change: continue hiring
National Assistance Fund                                   experts

4.3 Monitoring and             Monitoring and Evaluation   No change: activities under
Evaluation unit                unit                        the individual and budget
                                                           component were combined.
                                                           The initial plan was to
                                                           evaluate each component
                                                           separately, but this is no
                                                           longer the case, evaluation
                                                           of activities will be done as
                                                           one evaluation study for all
                                                           project components.
4.4 Periodic costs and         Periodic costs and          No change
incidental expenses            incidental expenses




	




                                           50
     Annex 7 - Table 2: Reallocation of loan revenues (since the restructuring date):15

Expenditure Category                                  Allocations                     Funding Percentage (%)
                                              Current      Revised                   Current      Revised
Goods and Labor, advisory                     3,727,500 2,895,703                    40%          100%
services and operating costs
Loan management fees                          10,000             10,000
Not specified                                 262,500            262,500
Sub-total amount                              4,000,000          3,168,203,
Amount cancelled after                                           831,797
restructuring
Original total amount                         4,000,000          4,000,000




15
  Editor’s note: Information presented in this table does not correspond to fiduciary reports submitted to the Bank
during ICR.
                                                          51
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                    52
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

      World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (2006)
      World Bank Country Partnership Strategy (2011)
      Project Appraisal Document for Social Protection Enhancement Project (SPEP) -
       P100546 (2007)
      World Bank Mission Aide-Memoires, Social Protection Enhancement Project –
       P100546 (2007-2013)
      World Bank ISR, Social Protection Enhancement Project – P100546 (2007-2013)
      Jordan National Poverty Agenda (2006)
      National Plan of Action for Children 2004-2015 (2004)
      National Strategy for Persons with Disabilities (2007)
      Jordan National Strategy for Youth (2003)
      Jordan National Strategy for Women (2004)
      National Strategy for Family Protection (2005)
      World Bank Poverty Assessment for Jordan (2004)
      “Jordan: A Note on Strategy for Modernization of Social Safety Nets”, World
       Bank Group (2007)
      Restructuring Paper, Social Protection Enhancement Project (SPEP) (2013)
      Mid-Term Evaluation Report, Social Protection Enhancement Project,
       CONSULT-US MENA Group (2011)
      Jordan’s National Aid Fund: Categorical vs. Poverty-based Targeting, Ersado,
       Lire, Victoria Levin and Haneen Sayed(2012)




                                        53
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33424
               35°E                                                 36°E                                  37°E                                           38°E                                39°E
  34°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         34°N




                      n
            Se anea
                r
              a
             er
       dit




                                                                                                       JORDAN
 Me




  33°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         33°N
                                       To                                     To
                                      Zefat                                 Damascus
                                    Lake                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                 Tiberias                                                                                                                                                                Baghdad

                                                       Um Qais
                                                           Irbid

                                                    IRBID
                                                    IRBI D                                                                                                        Ar Ruwayshid
                         AJLUN
                                                           Ajlun                 Al Mafrak
                                           River




                    JARASH                                         Jarash                                                                      MAFRAK
                                           n




                                                   Arda                                                            Mahattat al Halif
                                       Jorda




                                                   BALQA                    Az
  32°N
                                              As Salt                                                                                                                                                          32°N
                                                                            Zarka
                                                                    AMMAN                    ZARKA
                                                                                                       Azraq ash
                                                                                                         - -
                                                                                                       Shishan
                                               Madaba
                       To
                   Jerusalem
                                           MADABA                           AMMAN
                                                   Dead
                                                   Sea
                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                     Al Jawf
                                           Al Mazra’ah

                                                                              -
                                                                       Al Qatranah
          To                           Al Karak
       Beersheba
                                              KARAK
                                               --
                                           As Safi
  31°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         31°N
                                                                                                       Ard
                                           TAFILAH                                                               as
                                  At Tafilah                                                                           Sa
                                                                                                                              w
                                     -
                                         Al
                                 Rashadiyah
                                                                                                -
                                                                                               Ba’ir                              aa
                                                                                                                                         n
                               Ash Shawbak
                                                                                          MA'AN
                                    Petra
                                                                      Al Jafr
                                                                                                                                                                     0       0         50 Kilometers
                                                          Ma'an

                                                                                                                                                                     0            25                50 Miles
  30°N                                     Ra’s an Naqb                                                                                                                                                        30°N
                                                                                                                                                           38°E                                  39°E

                      AQABA
                                 Ad Disi

  To
Nuweiba
                                                                                                                                                                         JO R D A N
                               Jabal Ram
               Aqaba           (1,734 m)                                                                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
      aba




                                                                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
                                                   Al Mudawwarah
 of Aq




                                                                                                                        This map was produced by                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                To                                                                                                      the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                        World Bank. The boundaries,
               Al B'ir                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
Gulf




                                                                                                                        colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                        any other information shown
  29°N                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on                     MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                        the part of The World Bank
                                                                                 To                                     Group, any judgment on the                       RAILROADS
                                                                                Al B'ir                                 legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                        or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                        acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                        boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
            35°E                                                   36°E                                   37°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 2005
