Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1829 BO
(Emergency Social Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 31, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1829 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1987, between the REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from bilateral and multilateral aid and 
development organizations (hereinafter "Additional Financiers") loans and  grants 
(hereinafter "Additional Funding") to assist in expanding the activities of the 
Emergency Social Fund on the terms and conditions to be set forth in agreements to be 
entered into between the Borrower and each of the Additional Financiers;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General  Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement, with the  modification that the last 
sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ESF" means the Emergency Social Fund (Fondo Social de Emergencia)  
established by the President of the Republic of Bolivia as a public entity  with full 
juridical personality, by Chapter I of Decreto Supremo No. 21137 of November 30, 1985 
and revised by Decreto Supremo No. 21456 of November 28, 1986 of the Borrower;
(b)
"Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements" means the contractual arrangements 
to be entered into between the Borrower and ESF pursuant to  Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to such contractual arrangements;
(c)
"SEI Subproject" means a small-scale employment and income  generation 
subproject, including, inter alia, housing, street paving, erosion  control, 
reforestation, irrigation, water supply and sewerage subprojects for Beneficiaries (as 
hereinafter defined) to be financed in part out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(d)
"SA Subproject" means a social assistance subproject, including,  inter 
alia, training, construction of schools and medical centers, food  supplement and 
vaccination subprojects for Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined), to be financed in 
part out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(e)
"Subprojects" means collectively, SEI Subprojects and SA Subprojects; 
"Subproject" means any one of such Subprojects; 
(f)
"Beneficiaries" means residents of Bolivia adversely affected by the 
economic conditions prevailing since 1980 or by the economic stabilization  measures 
taken by the Borrower, including, inter alia, unemployed miners and  public sector 
employees, their families, and those persons with critical nutritional or health 
needs; "Beneficiary" means any one of such Beneficiaries;
(g)
"Implementing Entities" means any of the governmental and 
non-governmental entities which propose to carry out or are carrying out, a 
Subproject; "Implementing Entity" means any one of such Implementing Entities;
(h)
"Supervising Entities" means any of the governmental and non-governmental 
entities which propose to supervise, or are supervising, the carrying out of 
Subprojects; "Supervising Entity" means any one of such Supervising Entities;
(i)
"Subproject Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between ESF 
and an Implementing Entity and, when appropriate, a Supervising Entity, for  purposes 
of carrying out a Subproject, as the same may be amended from time to  time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the Subproject Agreement;
(j)
"ESF Procedure Guide" means the guide (Guia de Procedimiento) issued  by 
ESF for processing and monitoring Subprojects provided by the Borrower to the 
Association on May 13, 1987;
(k)
"ESF Evaluation Guide" means the guide (Guia del Evaluador) issued by the 
ESF setting forth criteria for evaluating and approving funding for Subprojects 
provided by the Borrower to the Association on May 13, 1987;
(l)
"MINPLAN" means the Ministry of Planning and Coordination (Ministerio de 
Planeamiento y Coordinacion) of the Borrower;
(m)
"Interagency Committee" means the committee to be established and 
maintained pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; and
(n)
"Organizational Chart" means the chart detailing key management personnel 
positions for ESF provided by the Borrower to the Association on May 13, 1987.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an  amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR $7,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  expenditures 
made or if the Association shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 1989 or such later  date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind  imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in  the currency  specified in 
this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 
1997, and ending April 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on April 15, 2007 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent 
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end,  shall carry 
out the Project through ESF, with due diligence and efficiency and  in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative and managerial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into subsidiary contractual arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Association, with ESF providing, inter alia, for:
(i)
the transfer of the proceeds of the Credit on a grant basis to ESF 
for purposes of carrying out the Project; 
(ii)
the assistance of MINPLAN in carrying out the studies referred to 
in Part B.2 of the Project, including the provision of competent 
staff in adequate numbers;
(iii)
the obligation of ESF to carry out the Project in accordance with 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, including, 
without limitation, carrying out the Project in accordance with 
Page  4
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Contractual 
Arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, and the 
Association and ESF and to accomplish the purposes of the  Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change, assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive such Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause ESF: (a) to hire competent and qualified 
employees to fill all of the key personnel positions detailed on the Organizational 
Chart; and
(b)
to consult with the Association with respect to replacement prior to such 
replacement of any key personnel at the Director through the Executive Director level, 
as detailed on the Organizational Chart.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
establish by September 30, 1987, and thereafter maintain through  
completion of the Project, an interagency committee, headed by the Minister of  
MINPLAN, and composed of such other members as shall be acceptable to the Association;
(b)
cause the Interagency Committee to monitor the socio-economic effects of 
Subprojects;
(c)
cause ESF and the Interagency Committee to carry out with the assistance 
of MINPLAN the study referred to in Part B.2 (i) of the Project  under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish the results of such study, by 
March 31, 1988, to the Association for its review and comment;
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause ESF to carry out the study referred to in 
Part B.2 (ii) of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish a report of the results of such study and the application of such results, 
by January 31, 1988, to the Association for its review and comment.
Section 3.06. Without any limitation to or restriction upon its other reporting 
requirements under the General Conditions and this Agreement, the Borrower shall, and 
shall cause ESF:
(a)
to exchange views with the Association, at all such times as the 
Association shall reasonably request, with regard to the progress of the  Project and 
Subprojects, the performance of ESF of its obligations under the  Subsidiary 
Contractual Arrangements and of ESF, Implementing Entities and Supervising Entities of 
their respective obligations under Subproject Agreements, and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Credit;
(b)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes, or 
threatens to interfere, with the progress of the Project and Subprojects, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance of ESF of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements, or the performance of ESF, 
Implementing Entities and Supervising Entities under Subproject Agreements;
(c)
provide by September 30, 1987 and by December 31, 1987, reports of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on  the progress 
of obtaining Additional Funding and of implementing the Project and Subprojects; and
(d)
provide by March 31, 1988 a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on the operations of ESF through the 1987 
calendar year.
Section 3.07. The Association and the Borrower agree that: (i) the  Borrower 
shall cause ESF to request approval of, or authorization for withdrawal of the 
proceeds of the Credit with respect to, Subprojects in a  prompt, timely and 
expeditious manner; and (ii) the Association shall promptly review and respond to such 
requests referred to in subparagraph (i) of this Section within a reasonable period of 
time.
Page  5
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, or shall cause ESF, to maintain separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound  accounting 
practices the operations and financial condition of ESF and the  operation, resources 
and expenditures in respect of the Project and each Subproject.
(b)
The Borrower shall, or shall cause ESF, to:
 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
of ESF, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof as 
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall, or 
shall cause ESF, to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until one year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last disbursement 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause ESF:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other  
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with  
sound administrative, financial and managerial practices under the supervision  of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its offices, machinery, 
equipment, vehicles, and other property, and from time to time, promptly as  needed, 
to make all necessary repairs and renewals  thereof, all in accordance  with sound 
engineering, financial and managerial practices.
Page  6
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that ESF will be able to perform its  obligations under the 
Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements or under Subproject Agreements;
(b)
Decreto Supremo No. 21456 of November 28, 1986 of the Borrower shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect  materially and 
adversely the ability of ESF to perform any of its obligations  under the Subsidiary 
Contractual Arrangements or under Subproject Agreements; or
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ESF, or for the  suspension of 
its operations, other than in accordance with the provisions  for  closing the 
operations of ESF set forth in the Decreto Supremo referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: (i) any event specified in paragraph (b) of 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and continue for a period of sixty days; 
and (ii) any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition  to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of  Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary  Contractual 
Arrangements have been entered into between the Borrower and ESF.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in  the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the  Subsidiary 
Contractual Arrangements have been duly authorized or ratified by, and are legally 
binding upon ESF and the Borrower in accordance with their terms.
Section 7.03. The date of October 29, 1987, is hereby specified for the  
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III, IV and V of 
this Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement  shall terminate or on 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministerio de Finanzas
Calle Bolivar No. 582
La Paz, Bolivia
Page  7
Cable address:
MINFIN
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
With a copy to:
Executive Director
Fondo Social de Emergencia
Edificio Banco Central
Piso 12, Casilla 23506
La Paz, Bolivia
Telex:
3528 FSETEL-BV
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day, month and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Illanes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to  each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  SEI Subprojects             5,380,000       75% of amounts
     under Part A.1                              disbursed by ESF
     of the Project                              for each sub-
                                                 project
Page  8
(2)  SA Subprojects              1,790,000       75% of amounts
     under Part A.2                              disbursed by ESF
     of the Project                              for each Sub-
                                                 project
(3)  Consultants'                   80,000       100%
     services and
     studies under
     Part B of the
     Project
(4)  Unallocated                   550,000
         TOTAL                  $7,800,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above and unless otherwise agreed 
by the Association, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except  that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR $780,000, may be made on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 15, 1987;
(b)
expenditures for a Subproject unless the Association shall have received 
the information set forth in the Appendix to Schedule 4 in respect of such Subproject;
(c)
expenditures for a Subproject for which the estimated financing to be 
provided by ESF is the equivalent of $250,000 or more, unless the Subproject  has been 
approved by the Association prior to signing the relevant Subproject Agreement; and
(d)
expenditures for a Subproject for which the estimated financing to be 
provided by ESF is less than the equivalent of $250,000, unless withdrawal from  the 
Credit Account with respect to such Subproject has been authorized by the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) carrying out a 
program of employment generation and social assistance in order to meet  the needs of 
those persons adversely affected by economic recession and economic adjustment and 
stabilization measures; (ii) strengthening the  management, operations and 
institutional capacity of ESF; and (iii) defining long-term policy to alleviate 
poverty.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
 
1.
SEI Subprojects
 
Financing and carrying out of small-scale employment and income generating 
subprojects, including housing, street paving, erosion control, reforestation,  water 
supply, irrigation and sewerage subprojects to benefit unemployed,  displaced and 
low-income persons residing in Bolivia.
2.
SA Subprojects
 
Financing and carrying out of social assistance subprojects, including training, 
construction of schools and medical centers, food supplement and vaccination 
subprojects to benefit unemployed, displaced and low-income persons residing in 
Bolivia.
Part B:
Technical Assistance and Studies
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to ESF and Implementing Entities for  purposes 
of designing, evaluating, monitoring and implementing Subprojects; and
2.
the carrying out of studies for purposes of:
 
(i)
determining and monitoring the long-term social impact of economic 
adjustment measures, including assessing ESF as part of such 
Page  9
adjustment and extending the survey of households conducted by the 
National Institute of Statistics (Instituto Nacional de 
Estadistica) to rural households; and
(ii)
surveying up to 600 displaced workers to determine patterns of 
migration, employment, family and social structure changes.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1988.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
Local Shopping
1.
Items or groups of items, including civil works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited  from a list of at least 
three suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines), in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
2.
To the extent practicable within each Subproject, contracts for civil works or 
for goods shall be grouped in packages for purposes of soliciting price quotations.
Part B:
Direct Contracting
 
Items or groups of items, including civil works and goods, estimated to  cost 
less than the equivalent of $250,000 per contract, may be procured by  direct 
contracting, on the basis of the unit prices established by ESF and  approved by the 
Association, from suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works and goods estimated to  
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs  3 and 
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from  the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts  shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower, ESF, Implementation Entities and  Supervising 
Entities in carrying out the Project and Subprojects, the Borrower shall cause to be 
employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and  terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.  Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as  Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
I.
ESF Operating Procedures
 
1.
Proposals for Subprojects may be initiated or sponsored by governmental and 
non-governmental entities, community and other groups. Proposals for  Subprojects 
shall identify the type of Subproject, describe the works or goods  to be financed, 
Page  10
and identify the Implementing Entity, Supervising Entity and Beneficiaries.
2.
ESF shall process the proposals for Subprojects received in accordance with its 
Procedure Guide. The Procedure Guide shall be modified from time to time, on a basis 
and in a manner acceptable to the Association, and taking  into consideration the 
results of the study referred to in Part B.2 of the Project.
3.
ESF shall:
 
(i)
identify and promote the development of Subprojects; 
 
(ii)
screen and appraise Subprojects;
 
(iii)
identify additional sources of funds and obtain Additional Funding 
to expand the number of Subprojects financed by ESF; and
(iv)
contract for and monitor the implementation of Subprojects.
 
4.
ESF shall evaluate Subprojects in accordance with its Evaluation Guide.   The 
Evaluation Guide shall be modified from time to time on a basis and in a  manner 
acceptable to the Association.
5.
ESF shall determine the estimated value of each Subproject, such estimated  
value to be reasonable and acceptable to the Association.
6.
ESF shall approve each Subproject on the basis of criteria acceptable to the 
Association and shall submit to the Association: 
(i)
each Subproject for which the estimated financing to be provided 
by ESF is the equivalent of $250,000 or more, for review and 
approval by the Association, prior to entering into the relevant 
Subproject Agreement for such Subproject; and
(ii)
each Subproject for which the estimated financing to be provided 
by ESF is the equivalent of less than $250,000, for review, and 
authorization by the Association to withdraw funds from the Credit 
Account with respect to such Subproject.
The information that shall be provided to the Association with respect to  each 
Subproject shall be acceptable to the Association and shall include at  least the 
information set forth in the Appendix to this Schedule.
7.
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to written agreements between  ESF, 
the Implementing Entity, Supervising Entity and other relevant parties,  under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including inter alia, providing for 
the following obligations and rights:
(i)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(ii)
the requirement that: (A) the goods and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance 
with Schedule 3 of this Agreement; and (B) such goods and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(iii)
the right of ESF to inspect, by itself, or jointly with 
representatives of the Association, if the Association shall so 
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any 
relevant records and documents;
(iv)
the right of ESF to obtain all such information as ESF or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the foregoing, the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Subproject and the benefits to be derived from the Subproject;
(v)
the right of ESF to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Implementing Entity and Supervising Entity to use the proceeds of 
the Credit for the Subproject upon failure by any such Entity to 
Page  11
perform any of its respective obligations under its Subproject 
Agreement with ESF; and
(vi)
the obligation of the Implementing Entity and Supervising Entity 
to report on the progress of implementing the Subproject.
II.
Terms and Conditions of Subprojects
 
1.
Subprojects shall be financed on the following terms and conditions: 
 
(i)
financing may be on a grant or loan basis;
 
(ii)
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit shall not exceed 75% 
of the estimated value of each Subproject;
(iii)
a mobilization advance of 20% of the estimated value of the 
Subproject may be paid upon signing of the Subproject Agreement. 
Subsequent payments thereafter may be made on the basis of a 
percentage, acceptable to the Association, of works completed or 
goods procured, and shall be evidenced by written documentation 
thereof. A retention of 10% of the estimated value of the 
Subproject may be paid upon completion of the Subproject, as 
evidenced by a certificate of completion, acceptable to the 
Association.
2.
SEI Subprojects under Categories 31, 33, 34, 35, 41, 42, 43, 51, 61, 62, 63, 64 
and 65 as set forth in the ESF Evaluation Guide and which have an estimated value of 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, shall be eligible for  financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit only if an economic rate of return of at least 12% can be 
demonstrated, calculated on a basis and using criteria acceptable to the Association.
APPENDIX TO SCHEDULE 4
Key Indicators for Subproject Review by the Association
Type of Project:
Total Estimated Value of Subproject:
Total ESF Contribution to Subproject:
Region:
Location of Project:
Target Population:
Description of Project
Duration of Project:
Sponsor:
Implementing Entity:
Supervising Entity:
Summary of costs:
Number of man-months of employment generated:
Total cost per man-month:
Economic rate of return (if relevant)
Other benefit indicators:
(for example, number of beneficiaries, qualitative description, kilometers of 
road, traffic density, number of hectares irrigated, medical services 
provided, quantity of potable water provided, etc.)
Cost recovery provision:
Page  12
Procurement method:
