RESTR I CTED
Report No. P-66
r"'L E C 0P Y
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated orgonizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report moy
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
December 31, 1968



INTERIATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOI1ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
TER.RITORY OF PAPUA AND NJE.W GUINEA
1.        I submit the following report and recomimendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $1.5 rnillion to
tlhe Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea.
PART I - HI3TORICAL
2.        The Territory Administration through the Australian Government
had originally asked for an IDA credit of $6 million to assist in
financing an agricultural development project consisting of three
separate sub-projects: (i) the planting and replanting of coconu.t palms,
(ii) the development and stocking of beef cattle ranches, and (iii) the
development of an oil palm development scheme, which included a nucleus
estate and factory as well as the settlement of 580 indigenous small-
holders. Negotiations of a $6 million credit for this project were held,
but were suspended until IDA was replenished.  The Australian Government,
on behalf of the Adt-inistration, then requested the Association to
consider a smaller IDA credit out of the available balance of IDA funds.
The high priority smallholder palm oil development sub-project included
as part (iii) of the original project, was selected to meet the request.
3.        Negotiations of the original proposal were held in Vlashington
from August 27 to September 7, 1968. The principal negotiators were
Mr. G.A. Lowi, Financial Mlinister of the Australian Embassy, representing
the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia, Mr. A.W. Charles,
Assistant Director, Department of Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries,
representing the Territory Administration, Mr. D. Champion, Chairman of
the New Britain Palm Oil Development Co. Ltd., and Mr. K.G. Crellin,
Managing Director of the Papua and New Guinea Development Bank.
Miodifications to the draft credit docxuments resulting from the revision
of the original project and the amount of the IDA credit were agreed upon
by correspondence during December 1968.
4.        In 1966, the President of the Bank informed the Australian
Government thlat the Territory was considered eligible for assistance, but
that any Bank Group financing should be additional to and not in place of
assistance to the Territory by Australia, which the Bank would therefore
expect to be continued. I am satisfied that Australia's contribution to
the Territory's budget and economy not only continued at the same level
but increased appreciably in recent years.
5.        This would be the first IDA credit to the Territory.  As noted
below in Part V of this report dependence on Australian financial
assistance is likely to continue for the foreseeable future. The
Commonwealth will therefore provide certain assurances concerning future
financial support, provision of funds for the project and the availability
of foreign currencies to service the Credit. Under the provisions of the
Papua and New Guinea Act 1949 - 1968, the Commonwealth of Australia



- 2 -
guarantees public loans received by the Administration of the Territory.
The Commonw^Tealth Government will confirm that the Act applies to the
proposed Credit in a letter on Undertakings by the Commonwealth of
Australia.  A Bank loan of $7 million for the financing of imported
equipment for the improvement and expansion of telecommunication
facilities was signed on June 28, 1968; participations amounting to
$0.3 million were sold. As contracts for supply of the equipment have
not been let, no disbursements have been made.
6.        The Association is still considering assistance in financing
the balance of the original project, which, however, due to the time
elapsed since it was appraised in January 1968, will have to be revised
and reappraised. Beyond that, the Administration is expected to request
financial assistance for transport projects resulting from the
comprehensive UNDP transportation survey which is currently being carried
out with the Bank acting as executing agency.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF TIHE PROPOSED CREDIT
7.        Borrower:                 The Administration of the Territory
Amount:                   The equivalent in various currencies
of $1.5 million.
Purpose:                 To help finance thle cost of settlement
of about 580 smallholders, the develop-
ment of about 4,640 acres of oil palms,
and the provision of necessary infra-
structure and associated services.
kaortization:             In fifty years including a ten-year
period of grace, through semi-annual
installments half of 1% from
September 1, 1979 through March 1, 1989
and of 11-St from September 1, 1989
through March 1, 2019.
Service Charge:           3/4 of 1% per annum.
Estimated Economic
Return on the Project:   9% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        A report entitled "Papua and New Guinea New Britain Smallholder
Development Project" (PA-1A) on the proposed project is attached.
9.        The economy of tne Territory is almost completely agricultural.
Agriculture earns nearly all export income, engages more than half the
people in paid employment and most of the self-employed. Agricultural
production is still dominantly subsistence in character and about two-thirds



- 3 -
of the gross national product is derived from it. The 1963 Bank Survey
.Hission and the 1967 Econoric Hissi.on recommended encouragement of cash
cropping through a strengthening of extension services and the provision
of credit, and endorsed the efforts of the Administration to develop oil
palms and other crops, which had not previously been grown in the
Territory on a commercial scale. The Administration embarked on a joint
venture in oil palm development in 1967 with a well-experienced
plantation company, Harrisons & Crosfield, and set up New Britain Palm
Oil Development Limited (NIBPOD).  The Administration leased to NBPOD
5,400 acres of suitable land for the development of a nucleus estate
and construction of an oil mill.
10.       The proposed project consists of the settlement in an area
adjacent to the nu.cleu.s estate of about 580 indigenous families from
other parts of the Territory on 15-acre holdings and the planting of
eight acres of oil paLns on each holding, totalling 4,640 acres of oil
palms. Supplies of imported planting material would be provided by
NBPOD under contract to the Administration. The smallholders would be
granted long-term loans by the PaDua and New Guinea Development Bank (P-NqGDB)
for on-farm development and subsistence during the initial period of
planting.
11.       The Administration wouuld provide suitable infrastructure for the
settlement area including a bridge, roads and wharf, and necessary welfare
and extension services for the smaliholders. The fresh fruit production
of the smallholders would be processed and marketed by NBPOD under
agreements betwieen the Adrainistration and NBPOD, the execution of which
would be a condition of eFfectiveness of the proposed credit.
12.       The Administration would carry out the project through its
variou.s departments which have the necessary qu.alified and experienced
staff for the job. The Papu.a and New Guinea Development Bank, which has
been in operation since July 1967 and is an autonomous institution
wholly finaLnced by interest-free non-repayable capital appropriations
from the Territory bu.dget, would receive up to $600,000 from the proceeds
of the credit on a 25 year loan with interest at lVo;  it would relend
these funds to the smallholders for 11 years at an interest rate of not
less than 6%. A satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement between the
Administration and PNGDB providing for the relending of part of the
proceeds of the credit to PNGDB would be a condition of effectiveness
of the credit.
13.       The proposed project is estimated to cost $3.3 million.   The
proposed IDA credit of $1.5 million would provide about 57% of project
expenditures after January 1, 1969, equivalent to the estimated import
component. However, it would be administratively difficult to relate
IDA financing directly to the import ccmponent of the project and
disbursements would therefore be made on a percentage basis against
expenditures on infrastructure investments, extension services and
against disbursements of loans granted to smallholders by PNGDB. The
project does not involve any major contractsfor the procurement of major



items which would warrant formal international competitive bidding. The
Administration's regular tender procedures have been examined and are
considered suitable for the procure;ment of goods and services required
for snallholdings and infrastructure.
14.       The appraisal report examinles market prospects for palm oil
and palm kernels on the world market. It concludes that during the life
of the project the c.i.f. Europe price for palm oil will be in the range
of US$155 to us$165 per metric ton, and that for kernels in the range of
US$134 to US$138. These prices comllpare wjith the following average
European market prices for the first eleven months of 1968:  palm oil
US$170; palm kernels US$155. Prices for palm oil in 1968 weakened
sharply in the sumnmer reaching a low of US$141 per metric ton in June,
reflecting exceptionally heavy supplies of fish oil, sunflower seed oil
and soybean oil. At the end of the year, prices were again hardening but
while expected to rise to the range forecast above are not expected to
rise to levels experienced earlier in 1968 and in previous years. On the
basis of this assumption, individual smallholders would have net earnings
of $200 per year six years after the establishment of their smallholdings,
rising to $900 per year at full production from the twelfth year onwards.
The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 9%0 per annum.
15.       The project is economically and financially justified,
particularly bearing in mind that the project has been planned on a
relatively small scale because oil paLn is a newi crop in the country and
that consequently the burden of infrastructure and overhead cost is
relatively heavy.  Conditions ror the production of palm oil are very
good in New Britain and the chances for a later expansion of the project
are excellent.  Since only relatively minor additions to the processing
and port facilities would be required for such an expansion, the project
would set the stage for a further project giving higher returns to the
economy.  Given the stage of economic development in Papua and New Guinea
there are limited opportunities for investments in projects directly
benefitting the indigenous population; the proposed project appears to
be the most promising one for this purpose at this time. The project
would open up a new area of fertile soils for agricultural production,
provide scne relief to problems of population pressure in other parts
of the Territory and establish settlement techniques which could eventually
be applied elsewhere in the Territory and -ith other crops.
PAiRT IV - LEGALL INSTRUTENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Association
and the Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea and the
Report of the Committee required by Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately.
Development Credit Regulations No. 1 w.,ould be applicable to the Developmen-t
Credit Agreement with the necessary modifications to take account of the
fact that the Borrower is not a member.  There is also being distributed
the draft of a letter from the Comnaonwealth containing undertakings and
assurances with respect to the matters stated in paragraph 5 and also
with respect to the completion of the project and certain tax privileges.



17.       As stated above (paras. 11 and 12) execution of the several
agreements between the Administration and NBPOD and of the subsidiary
loan agreement between the Administration and PNGDB is a condition of
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
18.       A report "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the
Territory of Papua and New Guinea" in two volumes (AS-129b) was circulated
to the Executive Directors on August 31, 1967. A memorandum updating that
report and presenting a general picture of the Territory's current economic
position was distributed to the Executive Directors on June 12, 1968
together with the President's Report on the Telecommunication Project
(P-613). Recent developments have not changed significantly the account
given in these documents.
19.       The Administration's budget for FY 1968/69 (July 1 - June 30)
foresees a 14% increase in total gross expenditure over the previous
fiscal year. Although internal revenmes are to be raised almost at the
same rate, largely by higher revenues from direct taxes and customs duties,
the budget continues to be heavily in deficit.  Again, as in the past,
most of the deficit will be covered by the annual Australian budget grant
which will cover about 60% of the Territory Administration's total outlays.
Dependence on Australia's financial assistance is expected to continue
for the foreseeable future.
20.       Exports increased by 34% in FY 1967/68, owing to a vigorous
rebound in copra exports, further increases in cocoa and coffee sales and
the initiation of tea exports. Although the trade gap widened in absolute
terms from $A73.0 million to $A77.7 million, the percentage of imports
covered by exports earnings rose to 48% from only 42% in FY 1966/67.
Australia's annual budgetary support finances most of the Territory's
trade gap. The rapid rise in imports of 18% in FY 1967/68 was because of
the acceleration in imports of capital goods in connection with the
stepped-up development program. In addition, consumer goods imports have
been rising with the growing expatriate community in the Territory and
increasing demand by the indigenes for imported goods.
21.       The Territory's five-year development program covering
Fy 1968/69 through FY 1972/73 was announced in September 1968. The
development program takes into account in large measure the recommendations
made by the 1963 Bank General Survey Mission and the 1967 Economic Mission.
The program appears to be consistent and sound. An economic mission is
scheduled to visit the Territory in March to review the economic situation
and the five-year development program.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 6 -
PART VII - REC0MMENDATION
23.       I recormend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTIOMN NO. IDA 69
Approval of a Development Credit to the Administration
of the Territory on Papua and New Guinea (New Britain
Sma-lholder Development Project) in an amount equivalent
to US$1,500,000
RESOLVED:
THAT thle Assoc.ation shall grant a development credit
to the Ad.i-,inistration of the Territory of Papua and New
Guinea in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one million five hunidred thousand United States dollars
(US$1,500000) to mature on and prior to March 1, 2019,
to bear a service charge of three quarters of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum and to be upon such other terms and
conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of
Development Credit Agree3nent (New Britain Smallholder
Development Project) between the Association and the
Administration of the Territory of Papu.a and New Guinea,
which hias been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment                                 by J. Burke Knapp
December 31, 1968



