CREDIT NUMBER 137 PNG
Development Credit
Agreement
(New Britain Smallholder Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ADMINISTRATION OF THE TERRITORY OF
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
DATED JANUARY 21, 1969


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 137 PNG
Development Credit
Agreement
(New Britain Smallholder Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ADMINISTRATION OF THE TERRITORY OF
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
DATED JANUARY 21, 1969


﻿Drurelpmwenut Trubit Agrnt
AGREEMENT, dated January 21, 1969 between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and ADMINISTRATION OF THE TERRITORY OF
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961 as amended February
9, 1967, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifi-
cations thereof (said Development Credit Regulations No.
1 as so modified being hereinafter called the Regulations),
namely:
S                     (a) Paragraph (f) of Section 5.02 is deleted and the
following paragraph is substituted therefor:
" (f) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Borrower
will be able to perform its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement or there shall occur
any such change in the nature and constitution of
the Borrower as shall make it improbable that the
Borrower will be able to carry out its obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement".
(b) The words "The Borrower" are deleted in para-
graph (b) (i) of Section 3.01 and in paragraphs (g) and (h)
of Section 5.02 and the words "The Commonwealth of
Australia" are substituted therefor.
(c) Paragraph (a) of Section 8.01 is deleted and the fol-
lowing paragraph is substituted therefor:


﻿4
"(a) the execution and delivery of the Development
Credit Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary gov-
ernmental action, including action of the Common-
wealth of Australia; and "
(d) Paragraph 5 of Section 9.01 is deleted and the fol-
1owing paragraph is substituted therefor:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means the Administration
of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea."
(e) The second sentence of paragraph 6 of Secion 9.01
is deleted.
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms, wherever used in the Development Credit
Agreement, have the following meanings:
(a) "NBPOD" means "New Britain Palm Oil Develop-
ment Limited", a company limited by shares, estab-
lished under the Borrower's Companies Ordinance
1963 and in accordance with a Memorandum of Asso-
ciation and Articles of Association, both dated May
12, 1967; and such term "NBPOD" also includes:
(i) "Mosa Plantation Pty. Limited", a company
limited by shares, established under the Bor-
rower's Companies Ordinance 1963 and in ac-
cordance with a Memorandum of Association
and Articles of Association, both dated May
23, 1967, which company is wholly owned by
NBPOD and is sometimes hereinafter referred
to as "the Plantation Company"; and
(ii) "Mosa Oil Mill Pty. Limited", a company lim-
ited by shares, established under the Borrow-
er's Companies Ordinance 1963 and in accord-
ance with a Memorandum of Association and
Articles of Association, both dated May 23,


﻿5
1967, which company is wholly owned by
NBPOD and is sometimes hereinafter referred
to as "the Factory Company".
(b) "PNGDB" means "The Papua and New Guinea
Development Bank", an instrumentality of the Bor-
rower eotablished by the Papua and New Guinea
Development Bank Ordinance 1965 (No. 2 of 1966).
(c) "Jaianagement Agreement" means the Management
Agreement and    Amending    Agreement between
NBPOD, the Plantation Company and the Factory
Company, of the one part, and Harrisons and Cros-
field (A. N. Z.) Limited, a Company incorporated
under the laws of the State of Victoria, Common-
wealth of Australia, of the other part, dated May 29,
1967, as the same may be amended or supplemented
from time to time.
(d) "NBPOI) Agreenwnt' means the agreement or
agrooments between the Borrower and NBPOD, pro-
viding for the undertaking by NBPOD of certain
obligations in respect of the carrying out of Part C
of the Project and related matters, as the same may
be amended or supplemeted from time to time.
(e) ".Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and PNGDB, purstiant to Section 3.01(b) of this
Agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, as the same may be amended or
supplemented from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Agree-
ment set forth or referred to, a development credit in an


﻿6
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million five
hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to
such Credit Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Regulations, and in accordance with the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule
or by further agreement between the Association and the
Borrower.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of the rea-
sonable cost of goods required for the Project and to be
financed under this Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, as shall be required to
meet payments to be made) for expenditures under
Category 1 of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(ii) the equivalent of eighty per cent (80%c) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for expenditures under Cate-
gory 2 of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of expenditures under Category 2, the Association
may by notice to the Borrower adjust the above percentage
as required in order that withdrawals of the amounts of the


﻿7
Credit then allocated to such Category 2 and not withdrawn
may continue pro rata with the expenditures remaining to
be made under such Category.
(b) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Association and the Borrower, no withdrawals shall be
made on account of expenditures made prior to the date of
this Agreement.
SEcTLON 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (,4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SEcTIosx 2.05. Service and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on March 1 and Septenber 1 in each
year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
aitiount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each March 1 and September 1 commencing September
1, 1979 and ending March 1, 2019, each installment to and
including the installment payable on March 1, 1989 to be
one-half of one per cent ('/. of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (11/%) of such principal amount.
SECTTON 2.07. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for purposes of Section 3.02
of the Regulations.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall apply the pro-
ceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of
this Agreement to expenditures on Parts A and B of the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿8
(b) In the carrying out of the provisions of the foregoing
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall relend
to PNGDB, pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the amount of the Credit allocated from time to time to
Category 2 of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured in accordance with such methods
and procedures as shall be determined by agreement be-
tween the Association and the Borrower, subject to modi-
fication by further agreement between them.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively in the
carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SEcTIoN 4.01. The Borrower shall (i) carry out Part A
of the Project, (ii) make and maintain arrangements with
PNGDB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfac-
tory to the Association, for the carrying out by PNGDB
of Part B of the Project, and (iii) make and maintain
arrangements with NBPOD under the NBPOD Agreement,
for the carrying out by NBPOD of Part C of the Project,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound agricultural, engineering, administrative, economic
and financial practices and shall provide, and cause PNGDB
and NBPOD to be provided with, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
SECTIoN 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall (i) cause PNGDB
punctually to perform all the covenants, agreements and


﻿9
obligations of PNGDB set forth in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and (ii) take or cause to be taken all action
necessary or appropriate to enable PNGDB and NBPOD
to perform all covenant,, agreements and obligations of
PNGDB and NBPOD respectively set forth in the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement and the NBPOD Agreement and
shall not take or permit any of its political subdivisions
or agencies to take any action which would prevent or inter-
fere with the performance by PNGDB or NBPOD of such
covenants, agreements and obligations.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the NBPOD Agree-
ment in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bor-
rower and the Association; and except as the Association
8hall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take or con-
Cur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving any provision of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreemeilt.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Association, promptly upon their prep-
aration, the reports, plans, specifications, contract docu-
ments and work schedules for the Project and any material
modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and out of the
proceeds of PNGDB loans made under Part B of the Proj-
ect, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations, administration and
financial condition, in respect of the Project, of any depart-
ment or agency of the Borrower (including PNGDB) re-
sponsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part
thereof or the maintenance o* all works, facilities and
0


﻿10
equipment related thereto and shall enable the Associa-
ton's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and out of the
proceeds of PNGDB loans made under Part B of the Proj-
ect, and any relevant records and documents.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times maintain auditing
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, with regard
to all expenditures made in connection with Parts A and B
of the Project.
SECTION 4.05. (a) The Borrowe    and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower
and the Association shall from time to time at the request
of either party, exchange views through their representa-
tives with regard to: the performance by the Borrower of
its obligations under this Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of any department or
agencv of the Borrower (including PNGDB) responsible
for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof or
the maintenance of all works, facilities and equipment re-
lated thereto, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest concerning: the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and of the proceeds of PNGDB loans made under
Part B of the Project, the goods financed out of such pro-
ceeds, the Project, and the administration, operations and
financial condition of any department or agency of the
Borrower (including PNGDB) responsible for the carrying
out of the Project or any part thereof or the maintenance
of all works, facilities and equipment related thereto.
(c) The Borrover shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which iterferes with, or threatens to


﻿11
interfere with, the accomplislunent of the purposes of the
Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof or the
performance by the Borrower, PNGDB or NBPOD of their
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the NBPOD Agreement. On the part of
the Borrower, such information shall include information
with respect to financial and economic conditions in the
territories of the Borrower and, to the extent possible, the
international balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
itity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SWITION 4.06. The Borrower shall adequately maintain
or cause to be maintained all works, facilities and equip-
ment related to the Project and from time to time shall
make or cause to be made all necessary renewals and re-
pairs thereof in accordance with sound agricultural and
engineering practices and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
STICTIoN 4.07. The Borrower undertakes to insure or
cause to be insured, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Association for the insurance of, the imported goods
10 be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or out of
the proceeds of PNGDB loans made under Part :B of the
Project against marine, transit and other hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 4.08. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free


﻿12
froia, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTIoN 4.09. This Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.10. In the carrying out of Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) grant to qualified settlers (hereinafter called the
smallholders) 99-year leases on Borrower's plots, each con-
taining about 15 acres of land suitable for oil palm culti-
vation, under good husbandry and residence conditions
and under such other conditions as shall be satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association, including, but without
1)eing limited to, the Borrower's right to terminate any
such lease in the event of failure by the smallholder to
perform his obligations thereunder;
(b) cause the smallholders to (i) plant with oil palms
a minimum aggregate of 4,600 acres not later than June
30, 1972, and to properly maintain and harvest such mini-
mum aggregate acreage thereafter, or make alternative
arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, for the pur-
pose and (ii) supply to the Factory Company, until they
have fully repaid the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the loans made to them by PNGDB under
Part B of the Project, their entire production of fresh
fruit bunch, or make alternative arrangements, satisfac-
tory to the Association, the Borrower and NBPOD; and
(c) make arrangements satisfactory to the Association
for the procurement and use of adequate quantities of
cover crop seed and a suitable kind of pollen in the small-
holders' settlement.
01


﻿13
SEcTioN 4.11. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall make and maintain arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Association, with NBPOD under
the NBPOD Agreement, for:
(a) the Plantation Company to grow or import high-
yield oil palm seedlings and to sell adequate quantities
thereof to the smallholders to be settled under Part A of
the Project; and
(b) the Factory Company to (i) accept, process and
market for a period of twenty-five years the fresh fruit
bunch production of not less than 4,640 acres of oil palms
planted by such smallholders at a purchase price to be
established in accordance with a formula to be agreed from
time to time between the Borrower and NBPOD in con-
sultation with the Association, on the basis set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and (ii) withhold, for
PNGDB's accoimt, from any amounts payable to such small-
holders on account of such production such part thereof
as shall be established by PNGDB as amortization and
interest on PNGDB loans made under Part B of the Project,
such withholding not to exceed one-half of any amounts
so payable to such smallholders.
SECTI()N 4.12. In the event that the Factory Company's
processing and marketing facilities shall not be available
s provided in Section 4.11(b) (i) of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, providing for alternative fresh fruit bunch
processing and marketing facilities.
S.cTioN 4.13. The Borrower shall make arrangements
satisfactory to the Association under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement for the establishment and maintenance by
PNGDB of operating policies and procedures in respect
of the Project as are set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment, subject to modification in consultation with the Asso-
eiation and the Borrower.
SECTION 4.14. If, at any time, the Borrower, or the
Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia, pur-


﻿14
suant to Sections 65(b) and 78 of the Papua and New
Guinea Act 1949-1968 of the Commonwealth of Australia,
shall enact or amend, or propose to enact or amend, any
regulations applicable in the territories of the Borrower,
on the marketing of palm oil, palm kernels or derivatives
thereof, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Associa-
tion and exchange views with it thereon.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of the Regulations or in paragraph (a), paragraph
(b), paragraph (c), paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall con-
tinue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower, then
at any subsequent time during the continuance thereof,
the Association, at its option, may declare the principal
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately, and upon any such declaration such principal
shall become due and payable immediately, anything in
this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary not-
withstanding.
SEOTION 5.02. The following are specified as additional
events for the piurpose of paragraph (k) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations:
(a) Any provision of (i) the Palm Oil Industry (New
Britain Agreement) Ordinance 1967 (No. 23 of 1967) of the
Borrower including the Schedule thereto; or (ii) the Memo-
randa and Articles of Association, referred to in Section
1.02(a) of this Agreement, of New Britain Palm Oil De-


﻿15
velopment Limited, the Plantation Company or the Factory
Company; or (iii) the Management Agreement, shall have
been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to adversely
affect the Project or the performance by NBPOD of its
obligations under the NBPOD Agreement.
(b) Any provision of the Papua and New Guinea Devel-
opment Bank Ordinance 1965 (No. 2 of 1966) of the Bor-
rower shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated
so as to adversely affect the Project, the operations or
financial condition of PNGDB or the performance by
PNGDB of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(c) NBPOD shall have failed to perform any covenant
or agreement of NBPOD under the NBPOD Agreement.
(d) PNGDB shall have failed to perform any covenant
or agreement of PNGDB under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(e) A default shall have occurred in the performance
of any covenant or agreement on the part of the Borrower
under the NBPOD Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(f) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that NBPOD or PNGDB will be
able to perform their respective obligations under the
NBPOD Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTIoN 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 8.01(b) of the Regulations:
(a) the execution and delivery of the NBPOD Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower and NBPOD have


﻿16
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary cor-
porate and governmental action; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and PNGDB
have been duly authorized or ratified by all neces-
sary corporate and governmental action.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 8.02(b) of the
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Ordinance of the Borrower authorizing or
ratifying this Agreement has been laid before each
House of Parliament of the Commonwealth of
Australia;
(b) that the NBPOD Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and NBPOD and consti-
tutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower
and NBPOD in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and PNGDB and consti-
tutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower
and PNGDB in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 6.03. If this Agreement shall not have come into
force and effect by May 16, 1969, this Agreement and all
the obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate,
unless the Association, after consideration of the reasons
for the delay, establishes a later date for the purposes of
this Section. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.


﻿17
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1972 or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTIoq 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Association:
International I)evelopment Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
His Honour
The Administrator of
Papua and New Guinea
Port Moresby
Papua and New Guinea
Cable address:
ADMIN
Port Moresby
SECTION 7.03. The Administrator of Papua and New
Guinea is designated for the purposes of Section 7.03 of
the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have


﻿18
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssociATioN
By   /s/ J. BURKE KYAPP
Vice President
ADMINISTRATION OF TIBTERIPTORY OF
PAPITA AND NEW GUINEA
By /s/ G. A. Low
Authorized Representative


﻿19
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                               U.S. Dollar Equivalent
1. Borrower's services to smallholders:
(a) Land sub-division and crop
extraction roads                     430,000
(b) Agricultural extension services      320,000
2. Long-term PNGDB loans for investment
in smallholdings                         600,000
3. Unallocated                              150,000
Total:      1,500,000
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
Categories 1 or 2 shall decrease, the amount of the Credit
thei allocated to, and no longer required for, such Category
will be reallocated by the Association to Category 3.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in
Categories 1 or 2 shall increase, an amount equal to such
increase in the case of Category 1 or an amount equal to
80c of such increase in the case of Category 2, will be
allocated by the Association, at the request of the Bor-
rower, to such Category from Category 3, subject, however,
to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by
the Association, in respect of the cost of the items in the
other Category.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project is the initial phase of development of about
9,000 acres in the West New Britain District and includes:
Part A i) Settlement by the Borrower, before June 30,
1969, of about 580 smallholders on about 8,700
acres in the blocks known as Kapore, Tamba,
Sarakolok and Lakiemata and, within 3 years
after each settlement, clearing and planting
with oil palms of 8 acres on each smallholder
plot.
ii) Provision by the Borrower of adequate edu-
cational and health services to the small-
holders.
iii) Provision by the Borrower of adequate exten-
sion services, including supervision, for oil
palm cultivation and harvesting by the small-
holders.
iv) Construction by the Borrower of all-weather
crop extraction roads linking each smallholder
plot with the factory.
v) Construction by the Borrower of an overseas
wharf capable of handling the export by
ocean-going freighters of the palm oil factory
production, to be operative not later than
June 30, 1971, and of an all-weather road and
associated bridges linking the overseas wharf
and the factory.
Parf B    Provision by PNGDB of long-term loans to
smallholders.
Part C    Establishment and operation of a palm   oil
factory and of oil pumping and storage facili-
ties at the overseas wharf.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Basic principles to be followed by NBPOD and the Bor-
rower to formulate the purchase price of fresh fruit bunch,
payable by NBPOD to the smallholders:
(a) Each calendar month, the Borrower will gazette a
local f.o.b. equivalent of the European main port c.i.f.
price for palm oil and palm kernels as of an agreed
date in the preceding month, less agreed freight,
insurance, commissions, normal wastage and over-
seas port rates.
(b) An agreed deduction will be made for wharf handling
charges and for running NBPOD's oil pumping and
storage facilities at the wharf to determine the
"in-tank" value of palm   oil and the "in-store"
value of palm kernels.
(c) To cover the cost of financing bulk storage, a deduc-
tion of three months' simple interest at 0.5 per cent
per annum over NBPOD's bankers' current lending
rate on commercial advances will be allowed on the
said "in-tank" and "in-store" values of oil and
kernels.
(d) An agreed deduction will be made for transportation
of palm oil and palm kernels from factory to wharf
and for bulk handling, bagging, handling and storage
of palm kernels to determine the factory tank value
of palm oil and the factory store value of naked
palm kernels.
(e) The ex-factory value of the derivatives of a ton of
smallholders' fresh fruit bunch will be derived from
the factory tank value of palm oil and the factory
store value of naked palm kernels by:
(i) first, deducting an agreed amount, per ton of
palm oil and per ton of naked palm kernels, in


﻿lieu of profit, depreciation and working capital
charges and standard company tax;
(ii) second, deducting any levies, cesses, export or
other charges or duties imposed by any taxing
authority of the Borrower, other than standard
company tax; and then
(iii) applying rates of extraction of oil and kernels
from smallholders' fresh fruit bunch, as agreed
on the basis of monthly factory tests satisfac-
tory to the Borrower.
(f) The purchase price of fresh fruit bunch payable by
NBPOD to the smallholders shall be the ex-factory
value of the derivatives of a ton of smallholders'
fresh fruit bunch less the following agreed charges:
(i) agreed factory operating costs, including man-
agement, but excluding depreciation and work-
ing capital charges; and
(ii) transport costs for collection and delivery to
the factory of smallholders' fresh fruit bunch,
if this service is performed by NBPOD.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Operating Policies and Procedures of PNGDB
PNGDB 's Lending Policy published in July 1967 shall
be applied by PNGDB in making loans under Part B of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to-
grether with the following supplemental policies and proce-
dures, as such Lending Policy and supplemental policies
and procedures (other than the interest rate set forth in
paragraph 3 below) shall be amended from time to time
by PNGDB after consultation with the Association and the
Borrower.
Eligibility
1. All credit-worthy settlers selected by the Borrower for
participation in Part A of the Project shall bo eligible for
PNGDB loans.
Loans
2. PNGDB shall lend to each smallholder up to $2,000
Australian Dollars to be disbursed over about five years,
repayable within 11 years including a 5-year grace period.
Standard loan agreements shall include such terms and
conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Association, inter
alia, good husbandry, prompt harvesting and residence
covenants on the part of the smallholder, withholding
of amounts payable by NBPOD to the smallholder in ac-
cordance with Section 4.11(b) (ii) of this Agreement and
adequate rights for suspension of disbursements and
foreclosure or other enforcement of security in favor of
PNGDB.
Interest
3. PNGDB's loans under Part B of the Project shall
hear interest at a rate of not less than 6% per annum on
the outstanding balance. PNGDB shall not increase such
interest rate without prior consultation with the Associa-
tion.
0


﻿24
Amount
4. Subject to the maximum established in paragraph 2
above, the amount of each loan shall be determined by
PNGDB in consultation with the Borrower's Department
of Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries (DASF), on the basis
of a standard budget showing the maximum amount to be
lent for each type of expenditure listed therein, including
a smallholder's monthly cash allowance and interest to
accrue during the grace period.
Disbursement and Records
5. PNGDB shall make arrangements with DASF for
DASF to (i) disburse the monthly cash allowance to small-
holders; (ii) suspeni such disbursements whenever small-
holders fall behind schedule in the clearing, planting or
maintenance of their plots or in harvesting their crops;
(iii) report to PNGDB on the foregoing and (iv) inform
PNGDB of the amounts to be charged to each smallholder's
loan account for goods and services supplied, such infor-
mation to be supported with the smallholder 's receipts for
such goods and services in the amounts to be charged.
PNG)B shall furnish semi-anmal statements to each small-
holder showing the amounts drawn on the smallholder's
loan account, including interest, payments made and the
outstanding balance of the loan.
Supervision
6. PNGDB shall ensure that amounts drawn on small-
holders' loans are applied exclusively to expenditures on
Part A of the Project, and its staff shall regularly visit
the snallholders' plots to ensure that the smallholders are
complying with the terms of their loan agreements.
Relending
7. Proceeds of payments received by PNGDB on account
of loans made by PNGDB under Part B of the Project,


﻿23
which are not required by PNGDB to service the loan from
the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
to meet PNGDB 's expenses arising from Part B of the
Project, shall be relent by PNGDB for the purpose of
financing further agricultural development in the terri-
tories of the Borrower.
Reports and Information
8. PNGDB shall furnish to the Association semi-annual
statements of amounts disbursed under the loans made
under Part B of the Project indicating, in such detail as
PNGDB and the Association shall agree, the specific goods
and services financed therefrom.
9. PNGDB shall transmit to the Association, promptly
after their preparation and not later than four months
after the close of PNGDB's fiscal year, certified copies of
its financial statements (balance sheet and related state-
ment of earnings and expenses) as audited by the banking
section of the Auditor-General's Department of the Com-
m1oniwealth of Australia and a signed copy of such Auditor
General's report.
10. The Association and PNGDB shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accom-
plished. To that end, the Association and PNGDB shall
from time to time at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to: the
performance by PNGDB of its obligations under the Sub-
si(diarv Loan Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of PNGDB and other matters re-
hiting to the purposes of the Credit.
11. PNGDB shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning: the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the goods financed out of such proceeds, Part B of the
0


﻿26
Project and the administration, operations and financial
ondition of PNGDB.
12. PNGDB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit in
connection with Part B of the Project or the performance
by PNGDB of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Miscellaneous
13. PNGDB shall promptly exercise its powers, rights
and remedies under the loan agreements with smallholders.
14. PNGDB shall satisfy itself that the rights and obli-
gations of smallholders are clearly drawn to their attention.


