Doet of
The World Bank
FOt OMIZCAL USE ONLY
Rhpwt N . 12129
SlO TOd AND PRf,iCIn
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND MUERNUATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1590-STP)
JUNE 30. 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12129
Type: PCR
Country Operations Division
Western African Department
Africa region
This docum   has a resticted distribu&n ad may be  db recpients only in te perfomance of
their officil duts  Its co*uts my not othews be disclosed wout World Bak authoriat



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dobra (Db) 1/
1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 (Feb)
USS1.00=   55    87  124  140 280  375  380
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
BNSTP        Banco Nacional de S3O TomE e Principe (National Bank of Sbo Tome and Pincipe)
CPDMP        Central Planing Dfrectorate in the Ministry of Planing
FAO          Food and Agricultnr  Organization
IFAD         International Food and Agriculalr Development
IMF          International Monetary Fund
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR          Special Drawings Right
STP          Sbo Tom6 and PLincipe
WFP          World Food Program
USAll)       United States Agency for Inteational Development
UNIDO        United Nations Industrial Development Orgnzation
UNDP         United Naions Development Progrm
FISCAL YEAR
Govnment: Jamuary 1 to December 31
1/ End of Period



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.SA
Ofi of DIreotor4-Gnea
Operations Evaluaidon
June 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO T EECUIVE DIREC ORSAND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completon Report od Sao Tome and Principe
Economic Rebabilitation and Modenization Project (Credit 1590-STPO
Atehed is the Project Completion Report on Sao Tome and criucipe: Economic Rehabilitation and
Modernization Project (Credit 150-STP) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II of the Report
contains the Govertmert's assessment.
Tne economic rehabilitation program was adopted in 1985 to help the Sao Tome and Principe
Government reverse the economic decline suffered dunng years of central planning by shiRing to a new
sytr     of greater outward orientation. The project fnanced a seres of subprojects designed to remove
critical development bottlenecks resulting from foreign exchange shortage in agnculture, industy, energy
and technical assistnce to assist institutional reform. The project was the first credit to the country by IDA.
The PCR provides a balanced discussion of the problems of implementation. Long delays characterized
the implementation phase, aggavated by lack of ins onal capacity, inaquate familiadty with IDA
procedures, lack of a ft I-time managef, and fiequent changes of project management. Disbursement of the
credit was unexpectedly slow, covering a period of 10 years. Only 60% of the credit was appraised and the
balance was left for subprojects yet to be identified, prepared and appraised. In order to fully utilize the
loan, about one-third of the credit amount was transformed into a quicldy disbursing component, to help
finance balance of payments requiements while awaiting the effectiveness of the Structural Adjustment
Credit.
On balance, the project outcome is rated as satisfctory. However, program sustainability is uncertain
and insfitutional development impact is partal. The OED will review these ratings when it undertakes an
audit of the project, together with an evaluation of the Structural Adjustment Credit.
Atachment
docum    a resticted dbtribudon and may be used by recipients onlyIinthepefoneofthe of Ecialduti . hscon
wris be disclosd wihout Wotld Bk suhoidion.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMNLEnON REPORT
SAO TOMt AND PRNCIWE
ECONOMUC REEABIHTATION AND MODERMNZATION PROJECT
(CREDiT 15904P
Pnre ce                                ..................................  i
Evaluation Summary ..................................  ii
PART I: PROJECTREVIEW FROM IDA'SPERSPECTVE
1. ProjectIentity ..............................  1
2. Backgmund tD IDA's Involvement .............................  1
3.Project Objectives andDescription .................. .                    3
4. Project Design and Organization .............................            4
S. Project             ..le.n.aion.............................  6
6.ProjeReuts .............................                                  8
7.ProtA Sustainability             .................. 8
8.IDA'sPerforance ................................                          9
9.Boowe'sP er ance  ...........              ...      ...............  10
10. Poject Relationship ..................................  10
11. (ousutngServices       ...............................   10
12. Project  aoume  nand Data .............................  10
13. LessonsLeaned                .................. it
Part I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.Background  .............................  12
2.IDA'sPerformnan.e........................ 12
3. Bonwe'sPerforma    .............................  13
4. Rlatonship Between IDA and the Borrower ..........................  13
S.CoufrmaionofContMeofPART m   .......... ............  13
6. Descrion of Sub-projects Fmaed .............................    14
7. Conclusions and Lessons eamed .............................15
Pat m: STATISTCAL INFORMATION
Table 1.     Project Timble
Table 2      Use of IDA's Resources
Tale 3       Credit Disbuements
Table 4      Caegoris and Sub-projects Finced
TAle 5       Pojec Costs ad Fiancig
Table 6      Status of Covennts
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
SAO TOMt AND PITNC1PE
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CREDII NO. 1S90-ST
PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
PREFACE
1.           This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Economic Rehbilitation and
Moderization Project (Credit 1590-STP) in Sao Tome and Principe (STP) for which a credit in the
amount of SDR5.3 million was approved on June 7, 1985. The original closing date for the IDA credit
was December 31, 1988 which was extended to December 31, 1991. rhe final disbursement was in
March 1992. An undisbursed amount of SDR 12,092 is being canceled.
2.           IThe PCR was prepared by Jennifer Edwards, Task Manager and Mr. George Failiace,
consultant. lhe Borrower's comments on Part I and Part m of the PCR are included in Part It.
3.           Preparation of this PCR is based on a detailed review of all the documentation in the
project files, including: the President's Report, the Development Credit Agreent, Project Supervision
Reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, internal IDA memoranda, audt reports,
progress repos, intmviews of IDA staff involved in the implementation of the project and interviews
with Borrower's staff in the field during a mission to STP in lanuary/February 1993.



Ii
SAO TOMt AND PRINCIPE
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND MODERNZATION PROJECT (CR.1S90-SIM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Iadcground
I.           In 1976, £oon after independence, Sbo Tomd and Prfncipe (SIP) embarked on an
economic policy based on central planning which, together with extemal factors, rapidly led to declining
cocoa exports, mouing debt-service and a deterioration of the external accounts as well as severe price
distorions in the economy and deterioration of the country's physical infratructure. In 1984, in order
to resolve the mounting economic and financial crisis, the Govermnent decided to pursre systematicaly
an outward-looling development strategy, which was expected to take advantage of the country's
exteive natural resources. 'he first phase of this straegy, supported by IDA's First Structural
Adjustment Credit, approved in June 1989, focussed on the removal of the most critical macroeconomic
distortions and on restoring the profitability of the agricultural sector and cocoa in particular.
nL,          In parallel to these macroeconomic adjustments the Government sought to remove some
of the physical constraints which could block efforts to improve agricultural production. A series of small
priority investments were identified in agriculture, transport and energy as well as technical assistamce
to undertake institutional reforms. This effort was supported by IDA through the Econom!c
Rehabilitation and Modernization Project, thefirst IDA operaion for the county.
Project Objectives
m.           The credit, approved in May 1985 consisted of a SDRS.3 million (USSS.0 million
equivalent) line of credit, designed to help remove critical physical constrainD that had developed as a
result of the economic crisis. The project covered the foreign exchange costs of small investments in
agriculture, fisheries, transport and eneWr as well as studies, technical assistance and training. In each
of the four sectors selected, the Borrower had either already begun to revise its policies to ensure better
performance or had indicated to IDA the directio. and timing that this policy reform would follow.
IV.          The line of credit was to be mnaged by the Central Planning Directe of the Mistry
of Planing (CPDMP), which was responsible, at that time, for the preparation of annual ivstment
programs. lhe National Bank of Sio Tome and Principe (BNSTP), the country's centra bank and only
commeria bank, was made responsible for the financial administration of the project. Ie CPDMP was
made responsible for identification, apprai and submission of sub-projects to IDA for financing under
the line of crdit. In view of the shortage of qualified personnel of the CPDMP to manage the line of
credi and the lack of familiariy with IDA's procedures and methodology for project analysis, it was
agreed to appoint an expatriate project coordinator to the CPDMP with qualifications and epnce
satsactory to IA.



iii
V.           The Borrower, as part of tihe agreements reached during the negotiations for this projeCt,
presented to IDA the outlines of the economic development strategy that it intended to follow. This
strategy covered many of the areas in which economic policy reforms were necessary. Thus, on the face
of it, policy conditionality could have been included in the project. However, keeping in mind that the
Borrower, during the preparation and appraisal of the project was in a major state of flux - overseeng
the inidal stages of the transition from a centrally planned to a market economy - it was not surprising
that this fist operation in SWP did not, in fact, include policy conditionalities, but focussed on trying to
overoome some of the key physical constraints in the country. It was correctly concluded at the time to
continue the dialogue initiated by the project with a deeper reform progam underpinned by follow-on
credt cotainng specific policy reform objectives.
ImplemenaonEpriai"
VI.          The final disbursement took place in March 1992, about 51 monts after the original
closing date of December 31, 1988. An undisbursed amount of SDR12,092 was canceled. The following
factors were maiy responsible for slower than expected pace of disbursement: (a) lack of a project
coordinator, particularly in ihe early few years of project implemenion; (b) lack of institutional capacity
within the Borower and its agencies; fc) preoccupation of the Ministry of Finance with more pressing
mats connected with the Structur Adjustment Program and the frequent cbanges of Minister; (d) lack
of experience on the part of the staff of the CPDMP and, later, in the Directorate of Economy and
Statistics  nistry of Economy and Finance), in dealing with external financing agencies, and in
pardicular with IDA; and (e) an overamb9sious disbursement schedule. As a result of delays in meeting
the conditions of effectiveness under the First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 1), IDA agreed to
support the Borrower's adjusme  efforts by realocating SDR2.3 million from other categories under
the Credit for quick disbursing emergency balance of payment support. This reallocation was timely since
without these funds, food and other basic imports, which were in short supply in the country, would ntt
have been provided to the population, possibly resulting in loss of support for the Borrower's adjustment
effort.
Project Results
VII.         In spite of the long delays in implementation, the project has largely met its specific
objectives which were to help remove critical physical bottlenecks that had developed in the modern
sect of the economy as a result of the acute shortage of foreign exchange. In the cocoa sector, the
project helped provide the needed fimds to finance the start-up activities fnr the FY87 Cocoa
Rablitation Project; in the energy sector, critical technical assistance was provwed to the power and
water utiliqty (E E) to manage the mntenance/engineen operation and subsequently, to purchase
critcal spare pars; in the transport sector, essntial materals and equipmnt were provided for the
maintenane and rehabitation of priority roads; in the Government sector, the project provided technical
istance, taining and equipment to help the Borrower perform under its structual adjustment process;
finally, emegey balance of payment support for the importation of critcal goods was provided,
pendig the effectiveness of SAC I (January 15, 1988). The project also provided the first contact
between the Borower and IDA and served to open a dialogue at the eady stages of the stuctr
adjustment process which fiacilitaed subsequent operations, particularly the first adjustm  operation.



iv
Sustainability
Vm.          Because of the urgency of going forward with the project to provide as soon as possible
the needed support to the Borrower and becase of the weak institutional framework in the couny, the
project's implementation arrangements were not clearly defined during appraisal. While it was corectly
surmised that a project coordinator would be essential to the implementtion of the project, the Borrower
was apparety not totally convinced of the merits of such an aragemen, and delayed the engagement
of the Project Coordinator. However, given that the appointment of the Coordinator was a condion of
effectiveness of the Credit, the Borrowdr finally agreed. After about one year when, for personal reasons
the Coordinator resigned, the Borr wer made very little effort to replace him and IDA did not press the
point. Ihe end result was a slower than planned implementation reriod and considerable IDA staff tum
spent in longdistance project management and supervision. Clearly, a different more sustainable
implementation arrangement was needed. Such an arrangement has been incorporated under the foilow-
on Multisector I and Multisector II projects, and is working satsfaorily.
Lessons Leaned
WX.          Whte it is important tD provide the needed assistance to a country on a timely basis, it
iS equally important to ensure hat the implementaion arrangements and project monitoring mecanisms
are in place to ensure that the project will be implemented as planned, particularly if the instiional and
administratve capacity of the country is exceptionally weak. Becaue, in this project, these aspects were
not adequately prepared, IDA staff resources had to supplemant this deficiency. Projects in STP should
allow for sufficient implementation support, even if this support is through expatriate advisors. If such
a need Is Idetifed and expatre assistance recruied, then comprehenve training programs should be
pa In place to ensure sls rnsfer to assist in builig up the Government project admisraton and
impleentation Gcapacity. Given the emergency nature of this Credit, litde training was foreseen for the
dational counterparts. While attempts were  *ade later on in the project to crrect t  (by including
sklls-r   cowmponents in consultants' terms of reference), these efforus were hanmered by kaqOiclen
tine and flas.



SAO TOMIt AND PRiNCIPE
ECONOrMIC REH UHTATION AND MIODERNIZATION PROJECT (CR. 1590STP
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FART 1- PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPCmTI
1.    Project Identity
Name                :Economic Rehabilitation and Modeanizaon Projew
Credit Number      :AS90-SW
RVP Unit             "frca Reion
Country             SEo TomE e Prfndpe
Sector              Mulasector
2. Background to IDA's Involvement
2.1           GeneraL   At independence in 1975, the country emerged firm five centuries of
Portuguese colonization with an economy overmhelmingly oriented towards the production of a single
rop, cocoa. Under colonial rle, cocoa was produced on estates covering virtually all the country's
arable land ', leaving no room for smallholders and forciag dependence on imported goods and
foodstuffs. F:liowiAg independence, the new Gover nt was faed with an aging production bae and
a crWical lack of skilled manpower. I responded with an economic policy based on central planing and
priority programs in health and education. The nationalized cocoa estates were regrouped into 15 state
enterprises which performed poorly and cocoa production, which had stood at about 10,000 tons in 1975,
dropped to 4,500 tons in 1987. Poor management, aging cocoa trees, techical fiators, volaie
iteional cocoa pdices and inappropriate exchange and credit policies were the major fiaors for the
sharp decline in production.
2.2          The country has a sfactory resource endowment and inherited a relatively good
infrasucture from the colonial administraton. However, because mainence had been inadequate since
the late sixties, these assets were in great need of repair and rehabilitation.
2.3           oonoindc Perfonmnce: 1980"86. Ihe initial decreases in cocoa production led to large
operatng deficits for the state agricultural enterprises, which the Govemnt finaced through
expansionary credit policies and which, in turn, fueled inflation. With a fixed hange rate policy, this
led to an appreciation of the real exchange rate and a decline in real producer prices, furher incring
opating deficits of cocoa plantations and spiri  production downward. GDP per capita decined by
an estmated 30 percent ireal tes over the period. In spke of the adopt   of a sries ofeconomic
meaues aimed at reforming the incentive system, inernal and exteral imbalances remained at ciical
levels.
do M&Min      z       bim
s_efa_ sbIS? pu#_             iwbfrE pdEuo ossmE  .11mkhusoismu       mmou



-2 -
2.4           Total credit to the Government increased by an annual aver4sge of 93 percent between
1983 and 1986.  lhe large public sector investment progm  (40 percent of GDP on average) was
financed maiy through ectal borrowing and did not contribute signiflcantly to valwt added; insbtead,
it gave rise to heavy racurrent costs which robbed agriculture of the necessary funding to maintain
production levels. Both the Government budget deficit and the overall deficit of the balance of paymens
averaged over 40 percen of GDP during the 1982-86 period. Extemal outtanding and disbursed debt,
excluding arears, increased from about US$0.3 million in 1975 to about US$80 million in 1987, while
export receipts only increased from USS7 million to US$10 million per annum. Scheduled extmen  debt
service payments amounting to USS7.0 million in 1986 represented over two-thirds of the country's
exports of goods ad non-factor services. Extemal reserves represented only 6 weels of imo at the
end of 1986.
2.5         Ibe moundtg debt service burden, together with declining cocoa exports, led to a rapid
deterioration of the exterl accouns. Between 1980 and 1986, deficits in the goods and services balance
averaged S0 percent of GDP. These translated into corresponding deficits in the cunt account balance,
which were finaned through a drawdown on external reserves, short-tetm borrowing in 1982 and 0)84,
rescheduling in 1984 and 1985, and a build-up of extea  arrears from 1983 to 1986. Tbis resulted in
a debt service burden of over US$24 n;llion at the end of 1986 (equivalent to over two years of exports).
2.6         hntal Steps Taken.  In 1984 the Goverment moved progressively to liberalize the
economy. Steps were taken to withdraw the public ser from commercial activities, a new  voestment
Code was adopted to attract foreign private invesment and the land distbution procs was initiaed.
Writhin this framork, the Government's priority was (and still is), to rehabilitate the cocoa sector. An
inease in cocoa production was expected to be achieved through better crop husbandry and improved
magement of the state enterprises. However, it was realized that a long-lasting recovery of cocoa
output and of the agricultur4 sector at large, would depend on the successful implemeon of an
incentive reform. Given the severe distortions which charcterized the SIP economy, these reforms were
not expected to succeed, if a parallel effort was nt undetaken to introduce the fwxdamend changes in
the macroecowmic policies that were identified as the root cause of the decline of the sector.
Considering the size of the imbalances and of the external debt conracted prior to 1986, subst
balance of payment support was required to bridge the external financing gap until the cocoa rehabilitadon
projects could start yielding increased export revenues.
2.7         IMe Medium-tem  Franework and the Govenment's Structural Adjustment
Pmogram. In order to resolve the economic and financial crisis and to avoid a further deterioration of
the situation, the Government decided to pursue an outward-oriented development strategy. This strategy
was expected to take advantage of the conr's extensive natur  resources for the e4pansion of
agriculture and take into account the county's socio-economic s t  resulting from five centries of
monoulsvation of a cash crop and the very small nuibers of independent farmers. Ibe Govermenes
str       was based on four essendal objectives to be carried out in two phases: (i) create the enabling
vironmet for a strong expansion of agicultural output and ex    and progressive d i
towards other foeign exchange earners, particularly torism-rated acties; (i) reduce the public sector
deficit while shifting avlale reurces towards the productive sectors, paricuary agriae; (ii)
stmuate grow  by reforming the incentve systm, including pricing and wage policies, in fa    of the
nura sector and of greater prvate sector participaton; and (iv) implement a finncia strategy to mobilize
the cocesol  tenal resources needed to achieve stabilization and balanced gowth.



-3 -
2.8          The first phase of the Goverw ent's progran was designed to remove the most crtcal
macoeconomic dLitortons (overvued cumncy, excessive fiscal deficts and monetwry eWansion) and
restore the prftabiity of the agrctural sector and cocoa In paricular. This phase was supported by
the First Ztuctural Adjustment Credit, approved in June, 1989. During this phase, long-term techical
sistance (coordined by UNDP and financed by the UNDP, AtDB, IDA and IMF) was selected to
assist the Govenment in main the structural adjustm    process. A second phase was planed to
assst In consold4ng progress made under the flrst phase of the adjusmn efort.
2.9          In parallel to these macroeconomic adjustment, the Government sought to remove some
of the physical  stais affecting not only the cocoa sub-sectr, but other economic sectors which could
block the effor undertaken to improve cocoa production and encourage diversification. A series of smal
priority investm     were identified in agriculture, transport and energy, as well as technical assistance,
to undertake insttonal reforms.  Tbis effo  was supported by IDA, through the Economic
Rehabilitaion and Modenization Line of Credit, the first IDA operation for the country.
3.    Project Objectives and Desription
3.1          As the first opem on in STP this project was desiguned to help remove critical physical
conStrant which had developed as a result of the acute shortage of foreign exchange. The project
covered the foreign exchange costs of small investments (sub-projects) in agriculture, transport and
eergy. Studies, technical assistance and some training were also to be financed. It consisted of a
SDRS.3 million (US$5 million equivalent) line of credit represening about 25 percent of estimated total
investments in Sbo Tome and Prfncipe during the estimated four-year disbursement period of the Credit.
3.2          The sub-proje"s to be fianced were selected on the basis of the following cria:
(a) support for the revival and expansion of cocoa and/or other productive sectors of the economy; (b)
fuller utilization of existing capital assets; (c) financing not available from other sources; (d) least-cost
method of achieving the desired objective. Because of the nature of the investments or the absence of
data, it was not epected to be possible to calculate economic rates of return for many of the sub-projects,
but where possible, a minimum rate of return of 12 percent was required 2.
3.3          The following specific investment totalling US$2.6 million were originally reviewed and
found justified by the appraisal mission: (i) a road maitance program in 1985 and reconstruction of
20 km of selected sections of the road network ($227,000); (ii) spare parts for buses and taxis ($350,000);
(iii) the invemsent program of the National Fishing Company (EMPESCA), ($514,000); (iv) pesticide
and fertlizer requirements for cocoa in 1985 plus training ($713,000); (v) technical assistae  to
detmine fatilizer requirements for cocoa during the second half of 1985 ($50,000); (vi) small
equipment and reagents for the laboratory of the new vetinary post ($35,000); and (vi) electricity, water
meters and load regulators plus billing equipment for the power and water supply company ($482,000).
3.4          The credit also refinanced a PPF which was made available for the preparation of a power
and water supply project. Finning of these sub-projects, rinancing of the PPF and the cost of the
2
rMMMOOOM S'   s smd  I  ailasmWOzu   gkk bpjsswn    i ak,1ium   U..Iaaalnqni W   is
FM_ U  k  qo  saqkd eyidd ssl _ss tlahw td_I oppztiy aduk  wZ b~ iO.%, 04purus*imwd
_if  a iiA AisaA inas ae_yidswebspssu toIp 40%   _  sai     s_la   b_is       _ _s
fbr t cow AIu_



-4-
project coordinator, v.as to absorb about US$3.0 milliou of the Credit; the balance of the line of credit
was left for sub-projects, yet to be identified, prepared and appraised 3.
4.    Project Design and 
4.1          Borrower's Support   Policy Efforts.  In each of the four sectors, selected duing
appraisa; (cocoa, fisheries, roads and electric energy), Xt Borrower had either already begun to revise
its policies in order to ensure better se¢te performance or had Indicated to IDA some of the areas in
which policy reforms were to take place. In the cocoa subsector, the Borrower developed an inceive
system for agriculwral workes, began planning for the privaization of cocoa estates and for the
liberalization of the marketing system. While imports of essetial food items and exports of agdculu
products contied to be a ste monopoly handled by the Foreigl Trade Enterprise (ECOME),
discussions with the Borrower had been initiated (in comection with the preparaton of the First Strutural
Adjustment Credit), to elimine ECOMEX'S import monopoly. The Borower recognized the need for
pnces of imported goods to reflect Ittermational prices (and pnces of domesticaly produced goods to
reflect their real cost). In the energy sector, an Integrated Energy Development Program was established
to make full use of the comparative advantages of the national resources. Efforts for a more ratona
investment program were initated giving priority to new investment wih foreign-change earing
capacty and financial soundness. The Borrower started to adjust the foreign exchange rate, and to study
the exchange rate regime, assisted by the IMF. Finally, the Borrower decided to give public entrprises
more management autonomy and financial independence.
4.2          Eteal Compmentary Efforts.  In the selection of the sub-projects consideration
was given to foreign assistance being provided by bilateral or multilteral agencies: (i) in the
transporaion sector, the AfDB was financing the reconstucion of an additional portion of the South
Road and had iniiated discussions with the Borrower on a large program of road rehabilitation (which
now is under implementation); (ii) in the fisheries sector, the sub-project was designed to complement
an on-going IFAD project to increase the catch of small fisherm; (iii) in the powerwvter seaor, the
sub-project was complemented by a technical assistce project finced by the AfDB with the national
power and water company; (iv) the sub-projects in the agricuaural sector were designed to fil the gap
left by the FAO when it stopped financing similar uts in 1982.
4.3          Project Organization and Procedures. The ir f credit made available to STP was
to be managed by the Central Plnning Directorate of the Ministry oi -ning (CPDMP) which was then
responsible for the preparation of annual investment programs 4. The National Bank of Sbo Tome and
Prfncipe (BNSTP), the country's central bank and only commercial bank, was made responsible for the
financial adminitration of the project. The CPDMP was made responsible for identification, appis
and submission of sub-projects to IDA for financing under the line of credit. In view of te acute
shorage of qualified personnel in the CPDMP to manage the line of ct and the lack of familiary with
3
3    sist fmyMniW 1 o '4mapamhdus   ii 1sfumS =pwdaticl                  for  11936
ai tmauctio d    Iaddid pi.db mfad X _).
WbP CPD1DUPwaie _wAak for ft amM OtUdsp*rceetd las  41 1 of v to  idulu*-jarojgwit, W.
tbobesandd stby uhiid ao  _ ==W   ai _ i.dWN



. 5 -
IDA's procedures and methodology for project analysis, it was agreed to appoint an expatriate project
coordinator to the CPDMP, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA.
4.4          Each of the investmers to be finced under the credit was subject to individual review
and approval by IDA, except for those utilizing less than $50,000 equivalent from the credit, in which
cases, a brief description of the investment, the purpose and the procurement procedure to be followed,
was considered sufficient. Me aggregate amount of such projects could not exceed S500,000 equivalent
To ensure diversified use of the credit, sub-projects costing over $600,000 equivalent were not eligible
for financing. The Borrower agreed that, on a case-by-case basis, when profit-making enterprises were
to be the final beneficiaries of the credit funds, these fuids should be on-lent on terms and conditions
sisfacty to the Association.
4.5          Because of the nature of most of the investments, notably spare parts, studies, minor
repairs, etc., procurement was to be through prudent international shopping in which at least three price
quotations for each purchase would be obtained. This was the normal procedure followed by the Extunal
Trade Enterprise (ECOMEX) which was in charge of all purchases abroad. However, for contracts of
$200,000 or more, intnational competitive bidding (1CB) was required.
4.6          lhe Credit was to finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures for goods required for sub-
projects and for expenditures for consultants' services, studies and training. Since this was the first
operaion in the couty, full documenion was required; however, the Association was periodically to
review disbursement perfomnce with the intention of allowing statements of expenditre for all
disbursement  -ainst commitmens of less than $20,000 equivalent. A Special Account facility in foreign
exchange equivalent to $500,000 was set up in Chase Manhattan Bank under tems acceptable to the
Associadtion for fnancing all project expenditures The Special Account was to be replenished monthly
against actual expenditures. Other disbursement procedures were to be used only with prior approval of
the Association. The credit was expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1988.
4.7          The BNSTP was to maintain separate accounts for the project and have those accouns
audited anmuay by auditors acceptable to the Association. The audited accounts and the auditors' report
were to be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. The
Central Planming Directrate was to maintain adequate records to monitor the progress of the project and
to prepare and furni to the Association a completion report on the costs and benefits reslting from the
project.
4.8          Appropiatees of Scope and Timing.  The Borrower, as part of the areements
reached during the negotions for this project, prented to IDA the outlines of the economic
development strategy that it intended to follow in the medium-term in those sectors supported by the
projecL  he deveopment strategy presented covered may of the policy areas in which economic policy
refbrm was felt by IDA to be necessary. Some degree of policy conditioy could have been included
in the project, had the Borrower, at the time of preparation and appraisal of the projet, not been in a
major state of flux - overeeing the initi stages of the transition from a cenrally planned to a market
ecnmy.  It was not surpring, therefore, that this fi operation in STP did not include policy
couditionalitles, but focussed mainly on tying to overcome some of the key physical constain  in the
country. It was correcdy concluded at the time to continue the dialogue initiated by the project with a



-6-
deeper reform program underpinned by follow-on credits contning specific policy reform objectives'.
Based on this lending strategy and considering the severe constraintsfacdng the Borrower at the dme, the
project's scope and tmng wre aroppriae, In spite of the over-optmstdc schedule for project
Implemenaon. In addition, funds were provided under the project to finance technical assista   to the
Borrower for preparing and assisting in implementing its first strucural adjustment program which served
as a basis for SAC I.
4.9          Tne Central Planning Directorate (CPDMP), at tlae time of appraisal, was the uni in E
Borrower responsible for preparing the annual public investment program, for set   intrsectoral
priorities, and for the allocation of the foreign exchange. In this regard, the selection of this Directorate
to manage the line of credit, was the only option available at tde time. Given that the BNSIP was also
the only central-o-commercial bank in the country there was little choice as to who should handle the
financial administrton of the project The appraisal team correctly saw die limitations of the CPDMP
staff to carry out tis supervisory function and also their lack of familiarity with DA's procedures and
methodology for peoject analysis; therefore, the project provided for the appointment of a fultime
coordinatr with experience in these areas to work within the CPDMP. The coordinator's responsibilities
included: (i) assistng in the selection and analysis of invesms proposals for financing under the credit;
(ii) helping to coordinate relations with other entities involved; (ii) folowing up on sub-project
implemeentation (iv) providing advice when needed in matters of procurement, disb nt and other
aspects of project iplemeion; and (v) appraising sub-projects for submission to IMA for finacing
under the line of creditv Given the importance of the project coordinator to the success of the project his
pointm  was made a condition of effectiveness of the Credit. The Borrower nominated a project
coordinator acceptable to IDA in October 1985, thus meedng the effectiveness condition, but because of
protacted contrac negotiations he did not begin work in SIP untl July 19M6 and no di   were
ahorized until his appoimment becme effective. Unforunaely, because of personal reasons, the
project coordinator resigned in June 1987 and was never replaced I . The director of the CPDMP
initilly took over the fumctions of the project coordinator. Subsequenty coordination of the project
passed to the Director of Economy and Finance who fulfilled this role until the project was completed.
Because of the director's many other duties, particularly foWlowing the merger of the Ministry of Planing
with the Ministy of Economy and Fmance in early 1988, the project did not receive the attention t
required particubly in the identification and simple apprisal of viable sub-projects for financing. This
situation was aggavated by the start-up of th First Structral Adjustment Credit, vwich was being
bandled under the same departm. In retrospect, IDA should have insisted in the appointme of a new
project coordinaor, at least until local staff were trained sufficiendy to carry out this function.
S.    Project Implemendtion
5.1          Critical Variances in Project Implementation. The final disbursement took place in
March 1992 about 51 monrt after the original closing date of December 31, 1988. An undisbursed
amount of 12,092 SDR is being anceled. Disbursemenwere completed in amost seen years. Whie
XCw cRda PmjegtcI. 1830<.ur fn. appiui bytaBoe2d a i 23, 1987, wM d  I - poIu_
~sqw~iNmuIuuSr, h         i    - =AWa=whI.p=ivaivhwm ad.ipoiI 1u atp& ui =Ur6n&ftVIM8W  A4WIuCQudb
(MCL182SrMd=qswx      . 23,1987,t smic6 "Om11ha       & A
6     A uad hu_I pr4sg      __ a Pf _ p e     u fn  m  W  to be b SO b * IM but sp    -to
_ Zi_



-7 -
there is no disbursement profile for Sm for thbis type of project, the more recent experience under the
very similar First Multisector Project  (approved in June 1989) indicates that the project disburset
considerably more slowly than should have been the case, particularly during the early years (Figure 1).
YEARLY DISU                             ACCULATED DISBURSEMENT
ESNJ VSACiML                               ESIED VSACAL
I:''   Fi                                   I!1 
§~~~~~~C YrA                                              FI1P W
I-MMMIMN- --r__w-
Figure I                                   Figure 2
5.2    Reasons for Variances Bdwees Planed and Actual Results.  The following factors were
mainly responsible for slower than expected pace of disbursement: (a) lack of project coordinator
particularly in the early few years of project implementation; (b) lack of insttutional capacity within the
Borrower and its agencies; (c) preoccupation of the Ministry of Finance with more pressing matters
connected with the Strucwral Adjustment Program and the fiequent changes of Minist (three in three
years); (d) lack of experience on the part of the staff of the CPDMP iniily and subsequenty in tlhe
Directorate of Economy and Statistics (Ministry of Economy and Finance), in dealing with exteanal
financing agencies, and in particular with IDA; and (e) an over-optmistic disbursement schedule. As a
result of delays in meeting the conditions of effectiveness under the First StrucuWal Adjusnt Credit
(SAC 1), IDA agreed to support the Borrower's adjusment efforts by reallocatng SDR2.3 million from
other categoies under the Credit for quick disbursing emergency balance of payment support'. Ihis
reallocation was timely since without these funds, food and other basic imports, which were in short
supply in the cotry, would not have been provided to the population, possibly resulting in loss of
political support to the Borrowers adjustment efforL
7      rom Na1h   t4g d U  *s    ddo cm& hdb bern o mia6me.  ameqmsd W unbbmb-Ofi bseftd*id
I      Molb ..mqa hr& prniid fies &m A" ub we ad by to O-Afo ts4m   wmbt u,unM   0w    w
~Sf  Xwa_f,  I_d O_L



- 8 -
5.3          Project Risks. The project did not involve any unusual risks. Of the potential risks
identified during appraisal the risk of misinvestment of funds was small. Because the expatriate project
coordinator was not replaced and due to the lack of experience of the CPDMP (and later of the
Directorate of Economy and Statistics), 1DA was forced to become much more involved in all financing
decisions (no mmatter how small). Thus there was little chance of misinvestment. The risk of failing to
achieve the necessary conditions to expand cocoa production and planned exports was minimized through
the significant amount of technical assistance that IDA was providing to STP for the preparation of the
Cocoa Rehabilitation Project and the subsequent large amount of support being provided to the sector
under the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project. However, two risks which were not mentioned in the President's
Report, had an effect in project implementation: (a) the lack of administrative capacity in the Ministries
involved to handle the project; and (b) the general a tratve ineffectiveness of the Borrower. Both
of these risks would result in substantial delays in project implemention. However, the effec of the
delays in implementation on the project overaU development effieness was largely mitigated by
increased IDA staffiius io projectmonitoring and s*rtiion usichpenitted the completion of those
sub-projects necessary for the preparation of other sector-specfic projects fl.e. in the cocoa sector).
5.4          Actions or Dedsions Taken or not Taken which Affected Projet  pl    ion.
The Credit Agreement required BNSTP to maintain separate accouns for the project and to have those
accounts audited annially by auditors acceptable to the Association. CPDMP was to maintain adequate
records to monitor the progress of the project. Unfortnately, during the early years of the project, little
effort was made to ensure that satifactory record keeping and management information systems were set
up. When the Borrower failed to comply with the audit requirement for the 1987 and the 1988 accounts
(and following the recommendation of the auditors for the 1989 accounts), at IDA's insistence, steps were
taken to set up financial control and reporting systems. Again this delay may have been a direct result
of not having an experienced project coordinator in the early years of implemenion who would almost
cetainly have set up such basic accounting and reporting systems. The lack of a project coordinator, a
requirement under the Credit Agreement, affected the project in a more critical way, however. The
prject failed to receive the attention it required particularly in the identification and the simple appraisal
of viable sub-projects for fitncing. Given that no previous experience existed in STP with IDA's
procurement procedures, the lack of a coordinator also delayed procurement decisions, especialy since
the decision process was diffused, with various departments trying to second guess the requirements.
6.    Project Results
6.1          Aclievement of Project Objectives and Impact.  In spite of the time taken in
implementaion, the project has largely met its specific objectives which were to help remove critical
physical bottlenecks that had developed in the modern sector of the economy as a result of the acute
shortage of foreign exchange. In the cocoa sector the project helped provide the needed fiuds to finace
the start-up activiies for the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project; in the energ sector criical technicl assistance
was provided to the power and water udlity (EMAE) to manage the mainnce/engineiog operaion
and subsequentdy, to purchase essential spare parts; in the transport sector vital matels and equipme
were provided for the mainenance and rehabilitation of priority roads; in the govemment sector, the
project provided   hical a  nce, training and equipmant to help the Borrower perform under its
stuctural adjstment process; finaly, emerge   balance of payment support for the import     of
critical goods and foodsuffs was provided, pending the effectiveness of the SAC I (anuary 1988). The
project also prvided the first contact between the Borrower and IDA and served to open a dialogue at
the early stages of the structal adjustment process.



-9-
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1          Of Insttutional arrangements.  Because of the urgency of going forward with the
project to provide, as soon as possible, the needed support to the Borrower and because of the weak
institutional framework in the country the project's implemention arrangements were not clearly defined
during appraisal. While it was correcdy recognized that a project coordinator was essetial to the
implementation of the project the Borrower was not totally convinced of the merits of such an
arrangement and delayed the engagement the project coordinator. However, given that the appointm
of the Coordinator was a condition of effectiveness of the Credit, the Borrower eventally agreed. After
about one year when, for personal reasons the Coordinator resigned, the Borrower made very little effort
to replace him. The end result was a slower than plamed initial implemetion period and considerable
staff time spent by IMA in long-distance project management and in supervision, particularly during 1988-
1990, when disbursements accelerated (Figures 1 and 2). In 1989 a similar multisectoral project was
approved by IMA . Under this new project, a flexible and simple instiutional arangement was set up
for rapid and effective implementation, namely the creation of an autonomous Social and Inastructre
Fund (SIF) responsible for identifying, appraising and supervising the implementation of small subprojects
in any sector. This institutional arrangement has so far proven to be effective as a mecdanism for
financing small, multisectoral public sector sub-projects (para. 5.1) 10.
7.2          Of subprojects financed. The activities in the various sectors were divided into broad
categories or 'sub-projects' for convenience and to facilitate accounting and project monioring. Within
each sub-project', a wide range of activities were financed, genetally with close links between activides
(Table 4). The sub-projects financed were important in removing critical bottlenecks; however, given
that the assistance was more of an emergency effort than an atempt to achieve longer-tem effects, its
sustaimability is more difficult to assess.  Nevertheless, the sub-projects generally led to more
comprehensive efforts in specific sectors, such as cocoa, energy and water, which are incorporated in
longer-term development goals.
S.    IDA's Ferformance
8.1          Man Strengths and Weaknesses.  IDA played a key role through the project in
initiating a dialogue with the Borrower leading to SAC I. In addition, when the Borrower needed balance
of payment support for its adjustment program, IDA demonstrated flexibility by reallocating funds from
the Credit for this purpose. Throughout the implementation period of the project IDA provied the
needed support to the Borrower's program by helping to develop tems of reference for critical
consultancies and with logistics as needed. On the negative side, due to the urgency of the project, it
appears tbat the depth of preparation and of IDA appraisal work could have been greater. Thi would
have permitted a more realistic implemntion and disbursement schedule. While it might have been
unnecessary, given the nature of the operation, to prepare the individual sub-projects in greater depth,
certainly the institutional argements and the oantional and record keeping systems could have been
given more atentin at preparation and appraisal. In addition, during implemtion, DA could have
9
Awrmi by to Bad i s l9WuMad a00c hi &Miiw 59
10
The use IDA Sud p4ma us qpumd h 5991 h    ~    ad b s Dbida ad Ke& umm aE w_I_W arm 8Wt  ad_
-umutwapsaed *amm.             'X- _s___s_.yF .__Lw h



- 10-
been more insistent on the re-appointment of a project coordinator 11 and on the completion of the 1987
and 1988 audit reports, all of which were covenants under the Credit Agreement. 'he amount of
supervision was adequate. However, in view of the problems with project coordination, the supervision
rating of '1 (1985-90) might not have been fully justified.
9.    Borrower's Perfornance
9.1          Main Strghs and Weaknesses. The Borrower at the start of project imple a
was in a major state of flux - overseeing the initial stages of the tasition from a centrlly planned to
a market economy. As such, this tasition was justifiably the overiding priority, but k was also
recognized that to accomplish the change critical physical constains hampering the development of the
country must be removed. It was in this context that project's implemenation was inidated. The
Governmen's lack of familiarity with IIDA procedures was known to IDA, but apparenty not completely
appreciated by the Borrower. Neither the Government nor IDA apparently fuly understood the extent
of the lack of instional capacity to meet the requirements of the project With hindsight, the Borrower
could have more readily accepted the advice of IDA on the admintration of the project and realized
more fully the need to appoint a project coordinator, with appropriate experience, to help bridge the gaps
in the sysm, unti local staff could be trained to take over the implemention  Given these limitations
and the already heavy burden imposed by the adjustment process, particularly by SAC I, the staff of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance did remarkably well under the circumstances. OveraU, the Borrower
pefonned as well as could have been expecred under the clrcwnsances.
10.   Project Relonship
10.1        Main Strengths and Weaknesses. IDA's relationship with the Bonrower, whle
somewhat strained at the outset, (following the proacted contracting of the project coordinator), and
fiurher complicated by the frequent changes of the Minister of Fance, were generally cooperative and
positive. IDA played a key supporvive role throughout the project in initiating a dWogue with the
Bofrower leading to SAC I and generally providing understanding and needed advice. An example of
the close coopatn was the timly request by the Borrower and the quick response by IDA for a
SDR2.3 million of emergency balne of payment support for the adjusment programL  Both
de motredfleibility and cooperation by quickly requesting and implementing the reallocation of Credit
funds for ths purpose. IDA's relationships with the donor community were equally copeative and
positive throughout project Implementtion.
11.         Cosuting Sevic
11.1        Role and pWrformane. With the assistace of the project, the Borrower was able to
conact an advisr to the Miny of Economy and Fiance on macroeconomic maniagement and a
spca   to assist in the implemntin of the public enetprise reform. Both of these advisos
pefomed crtical roles n the adjustm  poess. In addion, the project financed an initial evauaton
of the public entprise sector caried out by UNIDO. This study was crucial to the entprise efrm
which owd (and is cunay underway). The project also fianced cosulting sewi  to develp
11
1DAa             _ _..  Wsa_p         _ aIgm_mIdbhine"apbma ima Ip
k Uiw*  ih mk X                  _i..t-_1             in



- 11 -
a master plan for the energy sector. This plan subsequendy became the basis for the rehabilitadon of the
sector.
12.   Project Documentadon and Data
12.1         Project documentation and data includes the legal documents, the Presiden's Report,
missions' back-to-office reports and supervision reports, and progress rs  provided by the Borrower.
12.2         The lega agreements and the President's Report were adequately prepared except that
more atention could have been given to the implementation arrangements and provisions made to ensure
the setting up of adequae accounting and reporting systems. The lack of a systematized accouning
systm and fiancial control system made record keeping difficult to follow. Ihe requied amnal audits
of the account were not carried out untdl 1989. Supervision reports after 1988 gave a good picture of
the project evolution. The supervision reports prior to ta year were not sufficienty detailed to
recontuct accuately the evolution of the project during the early years.
13.   Lesoss Leamed
13.1         The major lesson that may be leamned from the experience gained in the project is that
although it is unportant to provide the needed assistane to a country on a timely basis, it is equally
important to ensure that the implementaion arrangements and control mechnisms are in place to ewpedite
disbursemens of funds for the inended purposes, particularly in countries with a known or suspected low
level of administrative capacity. Because instittional arrangements and procedures were not in place at
the outset of project implementtion IDA staff resources had to supplement this deficiency. During the
initial years of project implementation the main preoccupation of the Borrower and of IDA was, with just
cause, the adjustment process and the project did not receive the attention it merited. Ihis is
understandable given the priorities at the time, but it was precisely because of this and because of the
known limied administrtive capacity in the country that more attenion should have been given to
providing the needed safeguards to ensure timely implemention of the project It is also essenal in
such craes that adequate provision for training of local staff accmpany tecbnical assistance for
capacity-building_?2
2 lbe botower recognizes that, given the instaional weanesses, inadequae atentio and suppor
was given to  ainng needs and institional arangements.



- 12 -
PART H- PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  BACKGROUND
(a)    Signa=  of Cdit -1590-STP
The Econonuc Rehabilitation and Modernization Project, commonly known as Credit
1590-STP, came into being at a time in Sio Tome's history when its economy was suffeing from major -
- and, in some cases, chronic - structral imbalances, nd from an acute shortage of the foreign exchange
resources that would enable the Government to undertake the priority actions it regarded as necessary.
The Credit Agreement was signed in August 1985 between the Government of Sao Tome
and the Intenaional Development Association (IDA) and became effective in October of that year.
(b)   Amount and cumea
Line of credit 1590-STP was approved in the amount of SDR 5.3 million (US$5 million
equivalent).
2.    IDA'S PERFORMIANCE
(a)   IDA's performance during development and implementation of the project
In its capacity as the financing agency, IDA played a major role in the successful
implementation of the project. It was at fault to some extent, however, in faing to realize that tne
country's introduction to a new and complex system, and the fact that local personnel were both
inexpeienced in the type of work ca}led for and unfamiliar with IDA procedures and methodology, -neant
at adequate training for project staff should have been provided from the outset.
This project was the first undertalken together by the Government of Sbo TomE and
Principe and the IDA.
Te STP authorities were exremely surprised to learn that there were plans to appoint
an expatriate coordinaor to manage the project, and then, when the appointee resigned his post, that no
action was taken to find a replacement or designate an STP national to take fulltime responsibility for
the success of the project.
(1) 
(1)    That, for fiumt  projects of this scope, the IDA should recommend the institutional
st g stucte for project management and propose the terms of reference for appointment of a project
coordinatr.



- 13 -
(2)    Tbat an intensive training program should be provided for project staff.
3.  BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
(a)    Project inmiementation and objectives
Within the limitations to be expected in the case of introduction of a new and complex
process, the Borrower performed its role satisfactorily.
Project objectives were clearly accomplished, despite lengthy delays in execution resulting
from disagreemens between the Borrower and IDA over the setting of priorities.
The project was instrumental in helping to lessen the seriousness of the country's
economic situation.
As a source of support to the Government, the project enabled the country to acquire a
wide range of equipment and materials such as vehicles, photocopying machines, computers, mopeds and
office supplies, etc. It also guaranteed financial support for a series of subprojects, mainly in the enr,
highway and agriculture sectors. About 50% of the proceeds was earmarked for emergency imports,
training of local personnel (unfortunaely not completed because fimding to allow completion of the
second part of a training course in Dakar could not be guarateed), and technical assistamce. The other
50% was used to finance key subprojects in strategic sectors of the country's economy.
4.  RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN EDA AND THE BORROWER
Geerally speaking, the relationship between the IDA and the Borrower was satisfactory.
MDA was always willing to negotiate with the Borrower on any issue.
However, both IDA and the Borrower were negligent with respect to the decisive and
important role of the technical staff assigned to the project. In particular, the original project coordinaor,
who resigned, was never replaced, making the relationship between IDA and Borrower somewhat
difficult; moreover, the local staff who managed the project never received any recognition or inceive
for their efforts, despite the size of the amount (SDR 5.3 million) involved.
S.  CONFIRMATION OF THE CONTENT OF PART Im OF THE REPORT
The STP authorities agree with the content of Part m of the report and therefore confirm
its validity.



- 14-
6.    DESCRlPION OF EXECUTION OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED FROM  CREDIT
PROCEEDS
(a)    coa sector wb=ject
With an initial allocation of approximately SDR 675,000, this subproject was crucial In
paving the way for the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (1985-87), since it guaranteed the prefinancing
needed to support rehabilitation of the sector and laid a fim foundation for implemenion of that project
once MDA Credit 1830-STP became effective in June 1987.
Of the total allocated for this subproject, 93.08% was spent, the balance being reallocated
to other subprojects.
(b)    Support to the ener  sector
Me projea guaranteed implementation of an Integrated Energy Development Program,
designed to provide EMAE with technical assistance under contracts signed with Elearcidade de
Portugal (EDP) and Cummins Engine Co. Ltd. for insllation of a new generator.
Of the amount allocated, namely SDR 1.18 million, 71% was utilized, the unused balance
being reallocated to other subprojects.
Despite the fact that the energy sector is still facing serious problems today, it is clear
tha Credit 1590 played an important role during the period 1988/89 by allowing purchase of the
generating set and rectification of difficulties at the metering point.
(c)    Support to the road secr
An amount of SDR 310,000 was initially made available to finance a road mainnance
program in 1985 and recostuction of 20 kmi of selected sections of the road network  A total of 91%
was utilized for the following sections of road:
-     Madre-de-DeusfTrindade (SIo Tomd);
-     Almerim School/Cruzeiro (Sao Tome);
-     Santo Antdnio/lospital (Principe).
(d)    Support to tie Government
The purpose of this component was to help modemize the administrative system by
allowing equipment and materials essential for the success of the strctual adjusmet program to be
purchsed: e.g. computers, printers, diskettes, photocopiers, air-conditioners, vehicles, fax machines,
motorized pumping sets, duplicatig machines and office supplies.
TMis subproject also made study trips possible. Of the SDR 520,000 originally allocated,
only 81% was spent, the unused balance being reaUlocated to other subprojects (e.g. 'Emergency
Impors).



- 15 -
(e)    TchniW Aslisance
Of the amount allocated to this subproject (SDR 530,000), 86% was disbursed. In the
opinion of the STP authorities, this expenditure proved pointless, chiefly because the consultants failed
to join forces wih local specialists to devise methods which would ensure that their work could be taken
over at some point by their local counterparts.
An enormous amount of money was spent on this component, with nothing to show for
it, all because no policy had been established for selecting consultants and drawing up their terns of
reference.
(t)   Tiaining
Only 50% of the amount allocated was spent, leaving an unused balance of SDR 20,000.
In other words, not even the small amount allocated was used, despite the obvious need for training.
(g)   SO=Qor Mn     rts
Designed to provide balance of payments support for the structural adjustment program,
this expenditure category, to which SDR 1.74 million was initially allocated, finally showed an overrun
of 29.9%.
7.    CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
-     Project objectives were satisfactorily achieved, despite the lack of experience of this type
of venture among STP personnel.
-     Agreements signed ana, by extension, commitments made need to be stricly complied
with in future.
-     In the case of projects of similar scope, mechanisms should be devised that will guaratee
some incentive for project management personnel.
-     Efforts should be concentrated on the contation of this project and its administive
modernization component, and on the necessary reconciliation of sector interests that this
will involve.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLInON REPORT- PART m
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
ECONOMIC REHABILTATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT# 1590-S
TABLE 1-PROJECT TIMETABLE
item                    Date Planmed    Date Revised        Date Actual
P.EPARA`nON                                                 01/84
APPRAMAL MISSION DEP.  10/12/84          _                   10/12/84
CREDIT NEGOTIATIONS   03111/85                              03111/85
BOARD APPROVAL          05/07185                            05/07185
CREDiT SIGNATURE        08/14/85                            08114185
CREDIT TFFECTIVENESS   10/11/85 _                            10/11//85
CREDIT CLOSING          12/31/88         12131/91; 12/31/90    12/31/91



- 17 -
PROJECT CONPLEnON REPORT-PART m
SAO TONE AND PRINCIPE
ECONOMIC   AOND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1590-S
TABLE 2-USE OF BANK RESOURCES
_______ ______ _____   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ ______ ______(S taff w eek )
Stage of Project      Fiscal Year   Staff weeks in   Performance  Types of
Cycle                                Field             Rating          Problem
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ s ta tu s_ _ _ _ _
Preappraisal          1984            1.8              NA              NA
1985           0.1
Appraisal             1985            14.1             NA              NA
From Appraisal to     1985           3.2               NA              NA
Board Approval
Supervision           1985           0.7                1              none
1986           9.2               1               M
1987           3.0               1               M
1988           8.0               1               M
1989           17.7              1               M
1990           12.0              1               M
1991           10.1              2              MNO
1992          4.6                2               M/O
| Total              |               65.3
a/    Key to Status: 1. Problem-free or minor problems; 2. Moderate problem.
b/    Key to Problem: M - Managerial; T - Technical; P - Political; 0 - Other.



- 18 -
PROJECT COMPLE1ION REPORT-PART MI
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
ECONOMIC REHABILIIATION AND MIODERNIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1590-Sr
TABLE 3-CREDIT DISBURSEMENm
Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursements (in SDR mfillons)
DATE                       ACTUAL A-MT.           ORIG. AMT.              ACTUAL AS % OF
L________________  CUMULAIM                        CUMULATVE               ORIGINAL AMf.
JUN 1985
DEC 198                                          0.9S
JUN 1986                   .23                     1.27-                  18%
DEC 1986                  .68                     1.91                    36%
JUN 1987                   1.13                   2.54                    44%
DEC 1987                  2.21                    3.18                    69%
JUN 1938                  3.01                    3.82                    79%
DEC 1918                   3.66                   4.45                    82%
JUN 1989                  4.56                    5.09                    90%
DEC 1989                  4.73                    S30                     100%
JUN 1990                   4.85                              _
DEC 1990                  4.92
JUN 1991                   5.02
DEC 1991                  5.11
JUN I992                   S.27
DEC1992                   5.27
EXCHANGE RATES: USD per SDR (ead of the pead
=__          1986       1987      11988         1989        1990        1991        1992
MUNE        1.17757     1.27802    131061       1.24639     132388      1.31452     1.43117
DEC.        1:2_19      1.41866    1340         131416      1.42266     1.43043



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT-PART III
SAO TOME E PRINCIPE
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1590-ST?
TABLE 4-CATEGORIES AND SUBPROJECTS FINANCED
CATEGORY  SUBPROJE  NO.  NAME OF SUBROJWE   PURPOSE                                                    ACrUAL
_-                                              ~~~~~~~COSI    .
A-001                 Support to Cocoa Sector      Fuanced freg  echange coss of       628,251.08
two ma mgen contacts for Cocoa
Er-"s to enabl early st-up
before the Cocoa R      dhbiitaion
Pnoect (Cr. 1830-SF  had been
approved; abo financed pesicides,
spare pats and other agculkum
needs for the cocoa es.
A-OM                  Support to Enery Sctr        Financed a Master Plan for Energy   841,791.82
Invetmtrs emegeey puirhas of
new gentonrs, spar pas and
technicl a   _sstn  to EMAE,
_emergeny repair of Contador CamnL
A403                  Support to Road Sector       Emagency ipoit of  a  pass for   282,099.21
bus compay; small emergey
eabilitto  of key rads and
impots of eIa  mateias sch as
asphaLt
A4004                 Suppost to Fishing Sector    No investmesds made due to closum   0.0
of Stae Fishig Enteprie.
A-0S                  Genea  Support to            Maals, vehicles, office sli         471,28.25
Govermen                    expenses for officid tavel abrmd.
2                                     Consulting Sevices           Financed a Study of PubLic          503,979.62
Enaptises caried out by UNIDO;
Macreconomic Advisor to M isr
of Econom  and Finc; Techial
Asance to impleme  P.E.
Refonm.
3                                     Tinng                       Study Tours and taing abrd.          20,005.45
4                                     Emegeny Inmp                 Finnced emegnc c        _onmer goods   2,260,338.52
prior to effe_tivenes of SAC I.
S                                     PPP rfinaning                                                    234,975.3
Special Acount                                                  45.181.2
TOTAL                                                                                                  5,300000.oo



PROJECr COMPLON REPORT-PART ml
SAO TOME E PRINCIPE
ECONOMIC REIITATION AND MODRENIZATION PROJECT (CREDIT 159-STP)
TABLE 5SPROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(SDR Mllion)
PROJECT OSS                                    FNA1NG PLAN
APPRAISAL  SIMsrATE                      ACTUAL
COMIONENr                APPRAISAL    ACTUAL         IDA       GOV'T       TOTAL        IDA        GOVT    TOTAL
SUBPROJECTS:Agrculture  0.798             0.628       0.798      0.0        0.798       0.628       0.0         0.628
Trport  0.577             0.282       0.577      0.0         0.577      0.2#2       0.0         0.282
Fisheries 1' 0.514         0.0        0.514      0.0         0.514       0.0         0.0         0.0
Power/Waler  0.482           0.842      0.482       0.0        0.482       0.842       0.0         0.842
Assitance to GoYnt P  0.0           0.471       0.0        0.0         0.0        0.471       0.0         0.471
OTHER   2.099            0.0        2.099      0.0         2.099       0.0         0.0         0.0
SUBTOTAL   4.470            2.223       4.470      0.0         4.470      2.223       0.0         2.223
TECHCAL ASSISTANCE               0.570          0.524       0.S70      0.0        0.570       0.524       0.0         0.524
EMERGENCY DMPORTS '             0.0             2260        0.0        0.0        0.0         2.260       0.0         2.260
PPF REFINANCE 1                 0.260           0.235       0.2C0      0.0        0.260       0.235       0.0         0.235
CANCELLATIONS                   0.0             0.012       0.0        0.0        0.0         0.012       0.0         0.012
SPEC1AL ACCOUNT                                 0.045                             0.045                               0.045
TOTAL                              m            5.300       5300       0.0        5.300       5.300       0.0         S.300
NOMh The Govemnseo_'urtlon to Ohe prjet Wa to hid, Le., he Govaene pkied fofice pmse ad other adtWa in Wt s soff maN for poJect a,oordAo.
,L    Au etance to EMPESCA (te rlshbag eaterpris) was crried ot under Pubic Enterpre Reform effort.
p1   'ThS mbpr.jet Wm edlbaD hbendd under the tecna a^msa  componee.
2!     ahD 198a* I%? IDA qusu On sppeuq of up-fromt pesy ummm bdn take by e Govement) to alocate 80k 2.3 nmlu of quikk. damng% fund for cukca emtrgeny lupout.
4/   To rdnsae. hpeperatoa war supt and per proeJt whih er _atestad.



- 21 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT-PART m
SAO TOME E PRINCIPE
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1590-SIP
TABLE 6-STATUS OF COVENANTS
CREDIT AGREEMENT
SECTION                              SUBJECI                                         STATUS
2.02.(b)       The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and  Complied.
maintin in dollars a special account in its Centwal Bank (Banco
Nacional de Sao Tome e Principe) on terms and conditions
saifactory to thc Association. Deposits into and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.02.1c)      Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on  Complied.
behalf of the Borrowe, withdraw from the Credit Account and
pay to itself the amount required to repay the pnncipal amount of
the Project Preation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as
of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
2.03.          The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or such later date   Fmal Closing Date was extedod
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall   to Deeember 31, 1991.
!______   promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
2.04. (a)      The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charW    CompLied.
at the rate of onoe-half of one per cent (1J2 of I%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit not wthdrawn from time to
time. The commitment charge shall acwrue from a date sixty days
after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
2.05.         The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the   Complied.
rate of three-fouths of one per cent (314 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn end outsunding
from time to time.
2.07.         The Borower shall repay the prinipal amount of the Credit in  Not yet applicable.
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November
15 commencing May 15, 1995, and ending November 15, 2034.
Eh installment to and including the installm ent payable on
November 15, 2004 shall be one-half of one peront (112 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each instllment theafer shall be
one and one-half pecent (1-112%) of such princip  amounL



-22-
3.02.         Except as the Association shall othewise agree, procurement of    CompLied.
the goods and works required for the Poject and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the employment of
consultants to asist the Borrower in carrying out the Poject
*ball be govemed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agemet.
3.03.         For purposes of assistng the Borower in, er alia, selecting  Employmet of Pojea
and analyzing the Sub-projects, coordinating the carrying out of    Coordinator deayed u-til July,
the Project by the departments and agenies of the Bonower and   1986, because of protrced
supervising the execution of the Sub-projets, the Borrower shaU   contact negotiatos Coordinatr
employ a qualified and experienced Poject Coordaor. The  resgnd on June, 1987, for
provisio  of Schedule 3 to this Agreement shall apply to the  personal reans, and was not
employment of the Project Coordinator.                   replaced.
3.04.(a)      The Borrwer shall request t  Association's approval of any  Complied. Because th Project
proposed Sub-poject for which the Borrower requets financing    Coordiator was not replaced. all
out of the proceeds of the Credit of more than SDR 55,000  sub-pjets, even below the 'froe
equivalent and less than SDR 650,000 equivalent. For this  limit' of SDRSS,000, were set
purpose. the Borrower shall fumish to the Association an  to the Bans for review.
evaluation of the prposed Sub-project and a description of the
expenditus proposed to be finnced out of the poceeds of the
Credi In the case of f _elimit Sub-projects, the Borrower shaU
funish to the Association a bref descripton of the Sub-project
and evidenc of its approval by the Project Coordintor. The
amounts set forth in this Secdon may be changed by agreemenat
of the Bonower and the Association.
3.04.(b)      Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the requests and   Not Complied. See comments
infornation referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section shall be    under 3.04(a).
prented to the Association on or before December 31, 196.
3.05.         In the case of Sub-projects to be camed out by entriis other  All procm  handled betwoe
than the Borwer, the Borrower shall transfer to any such entity  project unit in Minisy of
such proceeds of the Credit as shall be allocated to the Sub-  Eonomy and Fmnce and
project to be carried out by it. The terms and conditions and  BNSTP and no transfer of funds
conual arrangements for any such uanfer shall be         was necessary.
satisfactory to the Associaon.
3.06.(a) 'l    Open a contrpart funds account in Banco Nacwnl do Sao Tome  Complied.
a Pdncipe (BNSTP) or such other bank as shall be acceptable to
the Association and deposit in sad account the local curncy
fiunds genated from the sale of foreign exchange under Paft C
of the Pwject.



- 23 -
3.06 (b)      Use such counerpoa    ds for set_lm  of the Bonowe's net    Compliod. Coutepat funs
smn   in payment due to BNSTP and for servcing its extnal   geated from Part C of tho
dbt; and                                                  Project wor deposited in MlW
acmount and camarkd to educe
Govaemet debt with BNSTP.
3.06 (c)      Fumish to the Association, for its mview and commat,      Complied.
quary repos on th use of said countpat fuds in such
__________detai as the Associatio shall reasonably reques._____________
4.01.(a)      lbe Bormw  hall maitaini or caue to be matained records    Geally comoied HI3wer,
and sepat accounts ad     to refoct in sources and       th lck of a system_atizd
expenditr in rspet of the Projec of the departmnts or     acuntn system ad financial
agnce of the Borwer reponsible for cuayig out th Pojet  contol system mae t  reorod
or ay pat theof.                                          keeping diicult to folbow.
4.01.(b)      Me Borrwer shall: (i have t  accounts rrred to in         (a) Not in compliance uni 1989;
pargraph (a) of this Section, including the Special Account for    1987 and 1988 acou   wei not
each fisal yearaudted, in acordanc with apprite auditing   audited.
principe  contely appied, by indpendt auditor             (b) 1989 accouns adited in
aaccpepb  to th Associaon (i) furish to the Associa , as    1990. 1990 and 1991 acou
soon s available, but in any case not later than four mouths afaer  audited in 1992.
te ed of each such yer, a coned copy of the report of such
aud by the said audi4r, of swh scope and in such delail as the
Associaton shall have reasonably requesed; and (iii) furish to
th Assoati  such other ifmaton concernng th said
accoun and th audit therof and said reoords as t  Asoiaion
hll from dtme to time rsonably request.
1                                    .e364  i)~(  sddb    mk  kI . 15 . b~isham?A      Ad2
efst Paojst. bm wdehf              _ tluUmased_ _ mIt mddbf u11e ino atvlin.b-X__



TIE WORLD UhUK1IIC/.I.G.A.
ROUTING SLIP           DATE: June 30, 1993
NM                      ROOM NO.
Mr. Mark Baird, Acting DGO             T-9101
URGEN                        PER YOUR REQ'UEST
FOR COMMNT                   PER OUR CONVERSATION
FOR LCTION                    SEE My EMAL
I FOR APPROVAL /CLXARACE       FOR INFORMATION
FOR SIGNATURE                LET'S DISCUSS
NOT AND CIRCULATE            NOTE AND RETURN
RE: PCRs SAO TOME & PRINCIPE:
Economic Rehabilitatiou & lModernization
(credit 1590-MTP
May I have youir approval to print, please.
i~~~~~O                   . - 0-
FROM:               I ~~~~Room NO.:  IEXTENSION:
A.M. S. for C. Stcat          T-910_1 1666



