Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
C J4. /S2o - s-7
Repor No. P-4028-STP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 5.3 MILLION
TO THE
DEMIOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
FOR AN
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
April 17, 1985
This document hu a restricted distribution ad may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                      Dobra
SDR 1.00              =            45.25 Dobras
Dobra 1.00             -           SDR 0.0221
Dobra 1 million        =           SDR 22,100
Fiscal Year
Government of the Democratic Republic of Sio Tome and PrSncipe
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
GWh       gigawatt hours, equivalent to 1 million KWh
ha   =    hectare, equivalent to 2.47 acres
Kg   =    kilogram, equivalent to 2.2 pounds
km   =    kilometer, equivalent to 0.62 miles
KWh  =    kilowatt hours
t    =    metric ton, equivalent to 0.984 long ton
TOE  =    ton of oil equivalent, equivalent to 7.4 barrels
of oil
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      =         African Development Bank
CCCE      =         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
ECOMEX    =         Empresa de Comercio Externo
EXAE      =         Empresa de Agua e Electricidade
EMPESCA   =         Empresa de Pesca
ENCO      =         Empresa Nacional de Combustiveis
FAO       =         Food and Agriculture Organization
GDR       =         German Democratic Republic
GDP                 G Gross Domestic Product
IFAD      =         International Fund for Agriculture Development
IRCC      -         Institut de Recherche pour le Cafe et le Cacao
IMICH     =         Ministerio das Industrias, Construgao e Rabitagio
HLSTP     =         Movement for the Liberation of Sao Tome e Principe
SDR       =         Special Drawing Right
SE                  State Enterprise
STABEX    =         Stabilization Fund for Export Commodity Prices
STP       =         Democratic Republic of Sao Tomne e Principe
UNDP      =         United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
LINE OF CREDIT FOR THE REHABILITATION AND
MODERNIZATION OF THE ECONOMY
Borrower:           Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
Credit Amount:      SDR 5.3 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Purpose:            The proposed IDA Credit would make available $5.0
million equivalent to help finance the foreign
exchange component of priority investments in
various economic sectors. Such investments have
been and will be selected in such a way as to
utilize existing assets more fully and to provide
a basis for successful implementation of measures
to increase production and exports of cocoa, which
are currently under formulation.
There are no significant risks concerning the
appropriate allocation of credit funds to specific
investments, given the safeguards built into the
procedures for determining their use. The risk of
the country failing to meet the longer term
objective of expanding cocoa production and
exports is reduced by the involvement of the Bank
and IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program in the analysis
of the cocoa subsector and in the formulation of
measures to be taken in that respect.
Estimated
Disbursements:
Fiscal Year
1986     1987     1988      1989
- -    (US$Million)-
Annual                2.6      1.2      1.0      0.2
Cumulative           2.6       3.8      4.8      5.0
Rate of Return:     N.A.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             None
map:                IBRD 13640
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their offcial dutieL Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPNENT
CREDIT TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE FOR
AN ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and PrIncipe for
SDR 5.3 million (US$5.0 million equivalent) to help finance an Economic.
Rehabilitation and Modernization Project. The Credit would be on standard
IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Two economic missions visited Sio Tome and Pr!ncipe in January
and June 1984 to review the economic situation and prospects of the coun-
try. An economic report is now in preparation. The missions' findings and
conclusions are presented briefly in the following assessment of the state
of the Sao Tomean economy and its prospects. Country data, to the extent
that they were available or could be estimated, appear in Annex I.
Background
3.        The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe (STP) consists
of two islands located in the Gulf of Guinea, some 200 miles west of Gabon,
covering a total area of 1000 km2. The island of Sao Tome (857 km2) con-
centrates 95 percent of the total population, estimated at 100,000 in 1981.
The islands were discovered in the late 15th century and colonized by the
Portuguese up.il independence in 1975. The population is fairly urbanized
(39 percent) and encompasses three main groups: native Sao Tomeans (85
percent) and Cape Verdeans and Angolans (15 percent). Since independence,
the country has been organized as a single party state.
4.        The islands were probably uninhabited when discovered by two
Portuguese navigators in 1469 and 1472. Thereafter, the Portuguese began
to develop plantations in successive crop cycles, initially sugar cane,
then coffee and finally cocoa, with slave labor from the African mainland.
STP history is characterized by cycles of prosperity and decline based on
the export of primary commodities. Production of coffee peaked in 1898 at
2,500 tons but had practically disappeared at independence (45 tons).
Cocoa was first introduced in 1850. Production peaked in 1913 at 36.500
tons, representing 12 percent of world production, but declined steadily
until the pre-independence years, reaching an annual plateau of about
10,000 tons, with a cultivated area of 20,000 ha. This decline is
attributed mainly to emigration to Brazil, where conditions for larger
scale plantations were more favorable, of Sao Tomeans and Portuguese who
were cultivating marginal lands.



-2-
5.        The country has a satisfactory resource endowment.  Cocoa vas
developed by the Portuguese in medium-to-large estates with fairly impres-
sive investments in buildings and agro-processing facilities. The country
also has inherited a relatively good infrastructure from the colonial admi-
nistration, especially roads (total network 380 km of which 200 km of paved
roads), buildings, electricity and water supply. At the beginning of the
1970s, however, the prospects of independence led the Portuguese corpora-
tions to disinvest and not fully maintain their STP assets:  most of the
infrastructure is today still in much need of repair and maintenance. In
the agricultural sector, the soils and the variety of micro-climates render
possible the cultivation of almost all tropical products. Arable land
totals 40,000 hectares and a significant unexploited potential exists in
fisheries and forestry. In the energy sector, it is estimated that only 10
percent of the hydroelectric potential (200 GWh) on both islands has been
harnessed so far. Industrial activities are handicapped by the small size
of the local market and the remoteness of the islands.
6.        The Central Government is composed of the Presidency of the
Republic, the Popular Assembly and 13 Ministries. Political activities are
organized under a sole party, the MLSTP, created during the pre-indepen-
dence liberation movement. The MLSTP de facto makes most Governmental
decisions following the system used in many centrally planned economies.
So far, economic policy has been based on rigid central planning with only
a marginal role given to the market mechanism. However, recent signs point
to the beginning of some liberalization of economic management.
7.        The structure of the economy is overwhelmingly oriented to the
production of a single crop, cocoa, which represented near 50 percent of
GDP and about 90 percent of exports in 1980. The other major sector is
government services, which accounted for 14 percent of GDP. Commerce,
tourism and other services accounted for 10 percent of GDP. Manufacturing
(about 7 percent of GDP) was limited to bakery products, beer, lumber and
other wood transformation, and soap. In the primary sector, food produc-
tion was limited to bananas, breadfruit, palm oil and root crops; foodstuff
imports represented in 1980 about 25 percent of total imports.
8.        Since independence, most of the agricultural land has been natio-
nalized and the large agricultural and industrial enterprises are owned and
managed by the State through a number of State Enterprises (SEs). Economic
activities are centrally planned and administered, with the Ministry of
Planning being responsible for public finance, central and commercial
banking, foreign exchange management and the financial control of the 42
SEs. Prices, wages and salaries are administered by the Government.
Centralization is partly a consequence of the size of the country, of an
acute shortage of qualified personnel which followed the departure of the
Portuguese and many of the Cape Verdeans in 1975, and of the very small
number of independent farmers resulting from colonial policies which
discouraged subsistence farming.



-3-
Recent Economic Developments
9.         Full understanding of STP's economic performance since indepen-
dence is hindered by a poor data base and frequently changing accounting
practices. However, estimates by Bank and Fund missions show that GDP per
capita rose to about $480 in 1980, mainly because of strong prices for
cocoa and copra, but fell to $237 (in constant 1980 prices) by 1983, due to
a sharp decline in cocoa output and prices. Cocoa production fell from
10,000 tpa in the last years before independence, to about 6,000 tpa right
after independence and about 3,500 tons in 1983.
10.       Cocoa and other cash crops of minor importance are grown by SEs
that were created at the time of independence to manage the plantations
abandoned by the Portuguese. These enterprises have a variety of problems
which have caused the alarming decline in cocoa output and productivity.
Foremost among these problems are weak management and lack of qualified
manpower together with a system of remuneration to management and labor
that fails to provide incentives. Other important problems are: a)
insufficient autonomy within a centralized bureaucratic system which does
not encourage initiative; b) poor allocation of labor between direct
production and support activities; c) poor work discipline and absenteeism;
d) difficult to quantify, but sizeable cuts in real wages since 1981; and
e) financial constraints within the enterprises.
11.       STP's external situation has worsened in step with the easing of
the world price for cocoa and the substantial drop in output. From size-
able surpluses in the late 1970s, the balance of payments registered large
deficits totalling nearly Db 0.9 billion (about $2.0 million)in the years
1981-83. As a result, gross foreign exchange reserves which at the end of
1979 exceeded one billion Dobras (nearly 20 months' imports) were down to
the equivalent of about three months imports in 1983 and net reserves were
negative. In 1983, the current account in the balance of payments
registered a marked improvement following a successful effort to compress
imports for both investment and consumer goods. This, however, has resulted
in acute shortages of basic consumer goods (including food) and a further
demotivation for agricultural and other workers to produce. Due to past
borrowing at relatively hard terms, whose grace periods are lapsing, STP
could be facing a debt service problem in the short run, particularly under
the present export performance. The debt service ratios for 1980 and 1981
were estimated by the Fund at 4.8 and 8.6 percent, respectively, and may
have reached 30 percent in 1984.
12.       The situation described above and the harvest shortfalls caused
by the 1983 drought have led to a large increase of food donations from
humanitarian organizations and bilateral agencies. Since STP has a small
population, these donations are often close to meeting total food require-
ments and, since the food is not resold to the public at international
prices, these food donations may have undermined the market for
STP-produced food and the achievement of the Government's objectives to
increase domestically produced food supplies. To help avoid such an
effect, the Government has gradually increased food prices and now makes
part of the food aid available to the working population as payment for



-4-
work done. Unlike food, other consumer and capital goods are in very short
supply or non-existant. These shortages cause considerable hardship to the
population and disrupt the productive process; lack of spare parts has
immobilized vehicles and machinery, lack of asphalt hinders road
maintenance, lack of pesticides reduces further cocoa yields, etc.
13.       Virtually all prices in STP are administered.  Imported products
are marketed officially at prices that generally cover import costs, except
for food and other basic necessities which have subsidized "political"
prices and which make up the bulk of officially traded goods. These prices
have changed little since they were established in 1978 or 1979 and there
is suppressed inflation, although in recent years the STP authorities have
been more willing to change prices to reflect costs. In part as a result
of this, the importance of consumption subsidies has been declining in the
most recent years. Domestic produce is sold at freely determined prices,
even though official prices also exist for most of these goods. Incomplete
data indicate that prices of domestic produce rose rapidly since 1981 in
part as a result of inflation caused by central bank financing of
government deficits and in part because of scarcity following a drought.
14.       STP's currency has been pegged to the SDR at Db 45.25/SDR since
September 1977, and has markedly appreciated against the currencies of its
major trading partners, notably Portugal (140 percent). Real effective
exchange rates, although difficult to calculate because of the absence of a
reliable price index, also seem to have appreciated considerably when a
variety of proxies for STP price movements is used. Although the exchange
rate has little impact in the allocation of foreign exchange, which is done
by dictum from the central planning authorities for rigidly controlled
imports, the Fund has undertaken a study of the exchange rate of the dobra
and is now recommending a substantial devaluation and the pegging of the
dobra against a more suitable basket of currencies than the SDR.
15.       The deteriorating economic situation has caused a marked weaken-
ing of public finances. The revenue base (essentially trade-related taxes
and contributions from State Enterprises) has been badly eroded while
expenditures have risen because of high administrative expenditures,
payment cf sizeable subsidies to loss-making agricultural enterprises and
high capital expenditures. The result was a rising budget deficit which
reached Db 700 - 800 million in 1982 and 1983 (about 55 percent of GDP).
In 1982, the deficit was financed principally by external borrowing (about
65 percent), the balance coming from government deposits. In 1983 domestic
financing covered the greater share of the deficit and the Government's
creditor position with the Central Bank declined sharply. As a result of
this monetary expansion, a credit overhang of some size exists in STP. At
present, because of widespread, rigid controls it cannot threaten the
balance of payments, but it could if international trade were liberalized.
Similarly, the monetary overhang appears not to have had much of an impact
on the prices of officially marketed imports, which are not actively traded



-5-
in secondary, parallel markets. The main result of the monetary expansion
therefore appears to have been iiflation in the market for freely traded
domestic produce, the prices of which are reported to have risen markedly,
but for which no systematic statistics are available.
Foreign Assistance
16.       Sao Tome and Principe is receiving a substantial amount of
foreign assistance on both concessional and commercial terms. Eastern bloc
country assistance tends to be oriented towards capital intensive projects
such as the ceramic and beer factories (East Germany) and the hydroelectric
plant under construction (Soviet Union), or towards technical assistance to
the Government (mainly Cuba, Romania and Bulgaria). Yugoslavia is financ-
ing the construction of the first tourist hotel in Sao Tome. Portugal has
maintained close cultural and economic links with the islands and has an
extensive technical assistance program, especially in the education sector.
USAID has had a small agricultural project and proposes to support agricul-
tural research through a Trilateral Cooperation agreement with Portugal.
The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) is financing the
rehabilitation of a cocoa plantation, and FAC finances a project in the
food crop subsector. The Dutch (livestock) are also active in the country.
Multilateral assistance is provided by the EEC (Agricultural Research), FAO
(Technical Assistance and importation of agricultural inputs), the OPEC
Fund (oil storage facilities), the IFAD (small fishermen) and the AfDB
(agriculture, spare parts for agricultural machinery, power and transpor-
tation sectors). In the next three years the World Food Program will
provide a substantial amount of food to be sold to the workers of the
agricultural enterprises. Aid coordination should improve after the UNDP
Roivnd Table schaduled far late 1985.
Development Strategy
17.       The development strategy of STP over the medium term has to be
centered on restoring the production and exports of cocoa, the major
determinant of economic activity in the country, and on promoting other
cash crops, while developing to the extent possible the production of
foodstuffs which weigh heavily in the balance of payments and limit import
capacity for investment purposes in the economic sector. The Government is
fully aware that achievement of those objectives will require important
adjustments in macroeconomic policies, the organizational structure of the
productive apparatus and considerable amounts of investment in the
agricultural and other sectors of the economy. Government's appeal to IDA
and to donors other than its traditional sources of finance and advice is
indicative of its awareness of the fact that to tackle the problems which
have led to negative growth in the last four years will require a more
pragmatic approach.



18.       STP's macroeconomic policies should aim at shifting resources
towards the productive enterprises and at correcting the distortions intro-
duced by long standing price controls and a fixed exchange rate. Such a
shift may be achieved by increasing producer prices of export goods,                     a
especially cocoa, and by appropriate adjustments in the exchange rate. An
adjustment of the exchange rate would also reduce demand for imported goods
and stimulate domestic production of substitutes, particularly food. The
dialogue with the fMF on the appropriateness of the current exchange rate
indicates that the STP authorities are considering the use of the exchange
rate as a means of economic policy to achieve financial equilibrium and to
promote development.
19.      Urgent action is required to remove the constraints on successful
operation of the state enterprises (SEs), particularly in the cocoa
sub-sector. To that effect, the Government has undertaken a number of
initiatives. In the first place, it requested Bank assistance to prepare a
project for the rehabilitation of cocoa production for subsequent
financing. Under this process, ways and means of providing a greater degree
of autonomy to state enterprises managers, together with the provision of
technical assistance while STP personnel is trained, are being explored on
a pilot basis for two cocoa SEs. Simultaneously, the Government is
exploring with foreign private firms the possibility of forming joint
ventures to run some of the enterprises, and has also called on CCCE to
assist in the rehabilitation of cocoa production. All these initiatives
are indicative of the commitment of the Government to restore reasonable
levels of cocoa production and of its readiness to take the measures which
may be required. These may include restoring the real wages of cocoa
workers, increasing the proportion of labor directly involved in cocoa
production, as opposed to "supportt" activities, and devising a wage system
that provides incentives and generates greater labor discipline in the
sector.
20.       However, the above actions cannot be taken in isolation from the
rest of the economic scene. Needed investments in other economic sectors
which may condition the potential production of cocoa ought to be under-
taken urgently, to avoid shortages of food, transport facilities, electric
power, machinery, etc., that would block the efforts to be undertaken in
the cocoa subsector. The proposed project will help carry out such
investments by providing part of the external financing requirements, and
assistance in their selection and preparation.
Prospects
21.       The immediate outlook for STP's economy are for a continuation of
economic stagnation over the next two to three years while the causes of
the decline in cocoa production are analysed in depth and programs to
remedy those are put in place. Medium term prospects, however, are for
rapid growth provided that appropriate policy adjustments are carried out,
even under the assumption, as projected by the Bank, that the long term
real price of cocoa will be below the 1980, and even the 1983, price. With
appropriate policies and institutional reforms, an increase of cocoa
production at a rate of 10 percent during 1987-92 and of 5 percent during



-7-
1992-2000 should be possible. This could lead to a 50 percent increase in
real per capita GDP at the end of the period.
22.       The adoption of appropriate policies and the implementation of
needed investments to increase cocoa production and exports and domestic
food supply, will require important flows of external assistance. In view
of STP's early stage of development, limited fiscal capacity and high debt
service burden, the country will continue to need foreign aid and financing
assistance on the most concessionary terms possible to cover its
requirements for the foreseeable future. Even under this scenario, the
debt service ratio is expected to grow, because of past borrowings, to an
unsustainable 70 percent at the end of the 1980s, unless, as is likely,
debt relief from the traditional lenders to STP occurs before then.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       Sao Tomen and Principe joined the Bank and IDA in 1978, but rela-
tions have developed slowly due partly to frequent changes of personalities
in the Government during the years immediately after independence and
partly to STP's access to financing from Eastern Europe. In April 1979,
the Government submitted a first project to upgrade the electric power and
water supply systems in the country and the Association in 1980 made a
$350,000 Project Preparation Facility Advance to prepare a suitable pro-
ject, but after appraisal of the project, the Government withdrew its
request. Thus, the proposed line of credit for economic rehabilitation and
modernization would be the first World Bank Group operation in the country.
24.       The lending strategy to be followed by the Bank in Sao Tome and
Principe is directed toward facilitating the recovery of the country-s
productive capacity.  While the country should ultimately attempt to
diversify its productive base, the most immediate results can be obtained
by reviving cocoa production. As noted above, the Government is already
*           adopting policy changes for the management of the sector that are designed
to reverse the trend of declining output. It is proposed that the Bank
Group support this revival through a line of credit that will directly
assist several of the cocoa plantations.  The preparation of such a proj-
ect, which would be financed together with the Caisse Centrale de Coopera-
tion Economique (CCCE), was begun in 1984. However, it is expected that
this preparation will -require up to two years. In the meantime, there are
a large number of small investments that are needed quickly in order to
support STP's efforts towards a more open economic system which, in turn,
will allow an expansion of cocoa and other production. The line of credit
proposed in this report has been prepared with the object of financing such
small investments.



- 8 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
25.       As indicated above, the project was designed jointly by Bank
staff and the Government in the course of a mission in January 1984.
Appraisal took place in October/November 1984. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from March 11-15, 1985. The Sao Tomean delegation was led by
H.E. Ambassador Joaquim Rafael Branco.  There is no separate staff
appraisal report for the proposed project. A credit and project summary is
at the front of this report and supplemental data on the project appear in
Annex III. A map of the country is attached.
Objectives and Description
26.       The proposed project would support a series of institutional
reforms to be taken by the Government and cover the foreign exchange costs
of small investments in agriculture, transport and energy. It would
consist of a US$5 million line of credit. The credit would also cover
studies, technical assistance, and training. The amount represents about
25 percent of estimated total investments in Sao Tome and Pr!ncipe during
the proposed four-year disbursement period.
27.       The principal criteria that would govern the selection of sub-
projects under the line of credit are:
a)   each sub-project would support the revival and expansion of
cocoa or other productive sectors of the economy;
b)   priority wou'ld be given to sub-projects that permit fuller
utilization of existing capital assets;
c)   the sub-project could not be readily financed from other
sources;
d)   the sub-project should represent the least-cost method of
achieving the desired objective. Because of the nature of
the investments or the absence of data, it would not be
possible to calculate economic rates of return for many of
the sub-projects, but in those cases where it would be
possible to make such a calculation, a minimum rate of
return of 12 percent would be required.
28.       Specific investments totalling US$2.6 million have been submitted
for financing under the line of credit and were reviewed and found jus-
tified by the appraisal mission. The investments already submitted and
found acceptable are summarized as follows (see Annex IV for details): i)
a road maintenance program in 1985 and reconstruction of 20 km of selected
sections of the road network ($227,000); ii) spare parts for buses and
taxis ($350,000); iii) The investment program of the National Fishing
Company (EMPESCA), including an increase in its cold storage capacity, the
repair and small expansion of its fleet of trucks for distributing fish and
spare parts for small fishing boats and the two modern fishing vessels
($514,000); iv) pesticide and fertilizer requirements for cocoa in 1985
plus training on the use of such pesticides ($713,000); v) technical
assistance to determine chemical composition of soils and fertilizer



requirements for cocoa during the second half of 1985 ($50,000); vi) small
equipment and reagents for the laboratory of the new veterinary post
($35,000), and; vii) electricity, water meters and load regulators plus
billing equipment for the power and water supply company ($482,000). The
credit would also refinance the PPF which was made available for the
preparation of a power and water supply project (para. 23) which is being
repaid over five years (current balance about $246,500).
29.       The economic rates of return of the sub-projects already identi-
fied have been estimated taking into account IDA's experience in similar
operations in Western Africa. In the agricultural sector, in the absence
of virtually any agricultural inputs in 1983, cocoa yields fell below 200
kg/ha, from average yields of 350/400 kg/ha in the late seventies. The
increase in yields resulting from the application of pesticides and ferti-
lizers necessary to achieve the estimated opportunity cost of capital in
Sao Tome (10 percent) is only 10.5 percent, well below the increase in
yields achieved by comparable operations in Africa. A 15 percent increase
in yields would result in an economic rate of return of the order of 40
percent. In the fisheries subsector, the investment to increase total
distribution capacity (+85 percent) and fish exports (+12 percent) has a
financial rate of return of 20.4 percent.  This constitutes a minimum
figure for the ERR as the increased supply of fish will displace foodstuff
imports. In the energy sector, the installation of 4,300 electric meters,
load regulators, and 2,500 water meters to presently non-metered con-
sumers, together with an adjustment in electricity tariffs, will increase
the revenues of the State Power and Electricity Company by 55 percent. The
ERR of the subproject is estimated at no less than 25 percent. Finally, in
the transportation sector, the subproject benefits from the existence of
idle equipment and manpower. Similar rehabilitation projects financed by
IDA have obtained EERs between 25 and 40 percent.
30.       Special care has been taken in the selection and appraisal of the
sub-projects to complement foreign assistance from bilateral or multilater-
al agencies: (i) in the transportation sector, the AfDB is financing the
reconstruction of an additional portion of the South Road; (ii) in the
fisheries sector, the sub-project is complementary to an IFAD project
designed to increase the catch of small fishermen; (iii) the sub-project in
the power/water sector will be enhanced by a technical assistance project
financed by the AfDB with the national power and water company; (iv) the
sub-projects in the agricultural sector are filling a gap left by the FAO
when it stopped financing similar inputs in 1982; and (v) some 80 percent
of the amount to be disbursed the first year will directly or indirectly
benefit the cocoa sub-sector in which the Association is preparing an
assistance project. Financing of these sub-projects plus the cost of the
project coordinator would absorb about $3.0 million of the line of credit,
the rest being available for investments to be identified, prepared and ap-
praised during 1985. Sub-projects already identified would be the provi-
sion of pesticide requirements for 1986, in amounts to be determined and
appraised in the light of the experience gained in 1985, provision of
fertilizers for 1986 also to be appraised towards the end of 1985. and the
reconstruction of an additional portion of the road network in 1986.



- 10 -
31.       In each of the four sectors - cocoa, fisheries, roads and elec-
tric energy - the Government has begun to revise its policies in order to
ensure better sector performance and has indicated to IDA some of the areas
in which policy reforms are to take place. In the cocoa subsector, the
Government has acknowledged the importance of organizational and managerial
problems, as well as labor productivity issues. The Government will
develop an incentive system for agricultural workers, by rewarding them
according to individual production and increased supply of consumer goods.
It will also consider the possibility of mixed public/private enterprises.
Moreover, it intends to introduce some liberalization into the marketing
system. Imports of essential food items and exports of agricultural
products will continue to be a state monopoly handled by ECOMEX, the
Foreign Trade Enterprise. However, liberalization will be introduced for
imports of consumer goods other than food. Exceptions to the ECOMEX
exports monopoly may be allowed if other public and private enterprises
appear to be more efficient in securing better market terms. In the energy
sector, an Integrated Energy Development Program will be established to
make full use of the comparative advantages of the national resources. A
more rational investment program will be pursued giving priority to new
investments that have foreign-exchange earning capacity, and are
financially sound. The Government intends to adjust the foreign exchange
rate, and is studying the exchange rate regime with assistance by the l4F.
It recognizes the need for prices of imported goods to reflect
international prices, and prices of domestically produced goods to reflect
their real costs. Government expenditures will be better controlled as a
result of the Government's decision to give public enterprises more
autonomous management authority and financial independence.
Implementation
32.       The line of credit would be made to STP and managed by the Cen-
tral Planning Directorate of the Ministry of Planning (CPDMP), which is
responsible for the preparation of annual investment programs on the basis
of submissions by the technical ministries, global investment resources and
intersectoral priorities, and for the allocation of foreign exchange. The
National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe (BNSTP), the country's central bank
and only commercial bank would be responsible for the financial administra-
tion of the project. The CPDMP would be responsible for identification,
appraisal and submission of sub-projects to IDA for financing under the
line of credit. The capacity of the CPDMP to manage the line of credit is
limited by the shortage of qualified personnel which is pervasive
throughout the administration, as well as by the lack of familiarity with
the Bank's procedures and methodology for project analysis. Therefore, it
has been agrei-d that a project coordinator with qualifications and experi-
ence satisfactory to IDA would be appointed to the CPDNP to assist I- the
selection and analysis of investments proposed for financing under   : cre-
dit, to help coordinate relations with other entities involved (i.e. the
BNSTP, implementing agencies or State Enterprises, etc.) and to follow up
the execution of sub-projects, providing advice when needed in matters of
procurement, disbursement and other aspects of project implementation. An
additional function of the project coordinator would se to provide advice,
when requested, on other investments at an early stage of identif'cation



- 11 -
and thus contribute to better allocation of resources in general. The
appointment of the coordinator would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
33.       The Government has agreed that for agriculture sub-projects, the
purchase of inputs will be conducted through the Support Unit that has been
created under the approved PPF for the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project.
34.       Each of the investments to be financed under the credit would be
subject to individual review and approval by IDA, except for those
utilizing less than $50,000 equivalent from the credit, in which cases a
brief description of the investment, the purpose and the procurement
procedure to be followed would be sufficient. The aggregate amount of such
projects would not exceed $500,000 equivalent (Section 3.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Simultaneously with the approval by IDA of
a sub-project proposal, IDA would authorize withdrawal from the line of
credit of the amounts of foreign exchange required to carry out the sub-
project in accordance with the approved submission. In order to ensure
diversified use of the credit, sub-projects costing over $600,000
equivalent would not be eligible for financing under the credit (Section
3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government agreed
that, on a case-by-case basis, when a profit- making enterprise is to be
the ultimate beneficiary of the credit funds, these funds will be on-lent
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.05 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
35.       Because of the nature of some of the investments, notably spare
parts, investment studies, minor repairs, etc., procurement would be
through prudent international shopping in which at least three price quota-
tions for each purchase would be obtained. This is the normal procedure
followed by the External Trade Enterprise (ECOMEX), which is in charge of
all purchases abroad. However, for any contracts of $200,000 or more,
international competitive bidding would be carried out.
Disbursements
36.       Disbursements would be made for 100 percent of foreign expendi-
tures for goods required for sub-projects and for expenditures for consul-
tants' services, studies and training. Since this is the first operation
in the country, full documentation will be required; however, the Associa-
tion will periodically review disbursement performance with the intention
of allowing statements of expenditure for all disbursements against commit-
ments of less than $20,000 equivalent. A Special Account facility in
foreign exchange equivalent to $500,000 will be set up in the Central Bank
under terms acceptable to the Association for financing all projectW
expenditures (Section 2.02 (b) of Draft Development Agreement). The
Special Account will be replenished monthly against actual expenditures.
The use of other disbursement procedures will be made only with prior
approval of the Association. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed
by Lecember 31, 1988.



- 12 -
Accounts, Audit and Evaluation
37.       The BNSTP would maintain separate accounts for the project and
have those accounts audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion. The audited accounts and the auditors' report would be furnished to
the Association not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
(Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Central
Planning Directorate would maintain records adequate to monitor the
progress of the project (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement), and would prepare and furnish to the Association a completion
report on the costs and benefits resulting from the project.
Benefits and Risks
38.       In global terms, the main benefit of this project is that it
would help remove critical bottlenecks that have developed in the modern
sector of the economy in the last four years as a result of acute scarcity
of foreign exchange. Thus, the proposed project would help better utilize
existing assets in various sectors, increase production of some critical
products (fish) or stop further decline of others (cocoa, livestock) and
ultimately permit the success of actions to be taken in the cocoa sub-sec-
tor which are currently being studied and defined. Thus, the proposed
credit would help break the vicious circle in which the limited production
(and exports) of cocoa does not allow for imports of inputs or services,
which in turn is one more factor limiting output. Rates of return on
sub-projects would vary between 12 percent and 40 percent (para. 29).
Because the sub-projects would mainly permit the utilization of hitherto
idle capacity, few problems of implementation are expected to be
encountered.
39.       The investments to be financed under the project, selected with
sound criteria and duly studied and analyzed will also produce important
economic benefits to the country. Other benefits whiclh may be expected
from the project include: i) the adoption for other investments of the in-
vestment criteria and methods of analysis used for sub-projects under the
credit; ii) the technical assistance and training effects in the Director-
ate of Central Planning which would result from the implementation of the
project, and; iii) the increased coordination that the project would bring
about among the Planning Ministry, the BNSTP and some of the state enter-
prises.
40.       The risks of the project as regards misinvestments of funds is
minimal. Funds would be controllable by the Association during project
implementation, given the safeguards built into the procedures established
for the utilization of the credit. The risk of failing to achieve the
necessary conditions to expand cocoa production and exports is minimized
through the financial and technical assistance that the Bank (through the
PPF advance and the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program) is providing to the
Government of Sao Tome and Principe for the preparation of a future cocoa
rehabilitation project.



- 13 -
PART IV - L.EG4A  INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
41.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Sao Tome and Pr!ncipe and the Association and the Recommenda-
tion of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the AssociatLon are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
42.       A special condition of effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement is that a project coordinator has been appointed (Section 5.01 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). Other special conditions of the
Developmen; Credit Agreement are mentioned in Section III of Annex III.
43.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
41.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approved the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
UWashington D.C.
April 17, 1985



- 14 _
ANNEX I
T A IL B 3A
SAD TUEM 4 MIlNIP         I OCTAL INDITCATOBI DATA SHEET
SAO T0NC &  PRNUP                     REFRENCE GROS (WE           A
Uos?               W(MOST 31CC  EfN"TV",
LtCUlcmT    LOU INCOM  ARIZCA         MIDDLE recaN
L9 -       L970Qt    tsTiiEDIA2dE     SOUTH or SAunA        AFRICA S. 0I SAHARA
AMA (TSUQU3A 0. JU)
TOTAL                                  1.0         1.0          1.0
aGRICULTURAL                           0.4         0.4          a.'
o nP  CAITA (uss ).                                 140.0        370.0            249.L                    :112.9
tat   wtiSIn  PM caPItA
CKLtcRANs or OIL EQUIVALENT)          52.0        76. 0        123.0             2. 0529.0
POPULAIXOM AM VITAL STAIES?
POPULATION.HID-TEAR (THOUSANDS)       63.4        73.6         99.6
URBA  POPUZATION (20 o TOTAL)         1.1        24.0         32.0             19.2                      as.;
POULATION PROECTtONS
POPULATION LA VAR 2000 (MILL)                                 0.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)
POPULATZION NDHETI
POPULATION DENSITY
PU SQ. IN.                         S6.0         76.7        100.4             32.5                      55.8
PEB sQ. K. ACRE. LAND             1L6.L        204.4        2614.            1L9.2                     LL.5
POPULATION ACE STRUCTUE (Z)
O-L4 YRS                             .           .            ..             .45.                       45.6
15-6i4 S                              ..          .,           ..              L.5                      51.7
S AND ABOVE                                 ..                  .              2.9                       2.9
POPULATION GROWTV RATE CZ)
TOTAL                                0.S         1.5          2.5              2.8                        2.3
URBAN                                0.3         5.5          5.               6.2                        3.2
CRUDE BURT  RATE (PE  THOUS)                                   40.0             48.6                      47.0
CRUD ODATH RATE (PER THOUS)             * **                    9.0              17.J                      15.2
RSS REPtODUCTON RAZ                     ..6                                      3.2                        3.Z
FARMIY PLAMNMN
ACCEPTORS. A L (TOUS)                 ..          ..          0.3
USERS (S OF MARRED eGEN)              .5 ..
FOOD A     wng&Tma
INDEX Or FOOD PROD. Pt CAPITA
(1969-71-.L00                           ..          ..           ..              5.8         -            9L.6
PE-R CAPITA SUPPLY 3F
CALORLtS C? OF REQUIREENTS)         75.0        9'.0         9L.0             54.4                      98.2
PRMTEIlS CQaES PER DAY)             *7.0        50.0         46.0 o9.9                                  5S.r
OP WKiCI  ANIMAL AND PULSE        22.0        L7.0          14.0  c          138.3                     17.0
CHILI) (ACES L-4) DEATH H                ..                                     23.8                       18.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT *tR7Y CYEAIRS)          ..          ..         62.0             .8.'                       51.,
IYFA3iT -!RT. AE C Pf TzOUs)         L19.7       6S.           62.3            -1i.5                     L;Z.Z
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (IMP)
LOTAL                                 ..          ..         80.0             .l.^                      35.6
LRBA                                  ..          ..           ..             1.5                        54.L
RURAL                                 ..          ..           ..               AZ                       27.)
ACCESS ro EsCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                                          12.00
tSBA                                  ..          ..           ..               .2.
RAL                                   ..           .           ..             24.8                          .
POPULArTION PEI PEHYSICIN           4330.0      5030.0       1860.0          Z7477.8                    11948.3
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                 ..       780.0        670.0           3396.2                    2248.1
POP. PER HOSPITAL StD
TOTAL                               20.0        40.0        160.0            1089.0                     9B4.
LRBA                                40.0 /d     50.0         80.0 lc         393.2                      368.7
RtRAL                               50.0 El   13100         z9o.o 77        304.0                      4012.1
AMSSSIOS PE HOSPITAL BED                .                      22.4
smins
AVERAGE S111 OF HOUSENOLI
TOTAL                                 ..          ..          3.8
AVZILC JI0. Of nausoll
RUTAL
u                                     ..          ..           .                 ..
RURL                                  ..          ..
ACCS TO ELECT. (C 0r UUCOLII)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         32.0
UBA                                   ..          ..           .                 ..
RRL                                   ..          ..            .                 ..



- 15 -
ANNEX I
T A B L L  3A                                         PALE 2
SAO TONIC 4 PRINCtPC     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DArA SHEET
SAO roNE 4 IR FINPc                    RBFERLNCE GROUPS (CEIGHTED AVERACES) Ia
NOST                   (NOST RECENT ESTIMATE) Jb
RECENT       LOW INCCME AfRICA          MIDDLE INCONE
l960L_    197,nb      ESTIKATILb      SOUTH or SANARA        AFRLICA S. OF SAHARA
ADJUSTED ENROLLNENT RArTOS
PA L'AR'fI  TOTAL                                                                69.2                       91.0
HtALE                                                                 8 6.                      90.5
rEMAL                                                               57 .6                      73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                                                                 I .                        L 7.4
HALE                                                                 17.6                       23.7
FEMALE                                                                8 .3                      14.6
VOCATIONAL (C OF SeCOmDARY)            13.0         8.6                             7.2                        5.3
PUPIL-TEACIER RATIO
PRIMARY                              50.0         33.0         27.0 /c           *6.L                       38.6
SECONDARY                            11.0        16.0                            23.9                       24.3
ADULT LLTERACY RATE (I)                                                            44.3                       35.6
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             9.5         17.7                            3.6                       20.7
RADIO RECEIVrRStTHOUSAND POP           10.9        6l.5         244.7              41.9                      100.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSIAND POP                                                          2.0                       1R.s
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST) CIRCULATION
PER TNOUSAND POPULATION                                                           S 4                       17.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA                                                     14                         0.3
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)                                        29.0
FEMALE (PERCETr)                                               31.0              36.5                       33.S
AGRICULrURE (PERCENT)                                          56.0              77.4                       57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                                              8 0              9.S                        17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                                          30.4              11.0                       36.3
KALE                                                                             52.1                       47.6
FEMALE                                                                           30.2                       25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                                                           1.2                        1.4
IlCM  DISTRBTIOM
PERCENT OF PRMIATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HlGHEST 5S OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGCEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 20X OF HOLSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40  OF HOUSEHOLDS
19M= TAfCT GROUP5
ESTIMATED ASOLULTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                           168.3                      525.3
RURAL                                                                            90.6                      249.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                           107.7                      477.6
RLRAL                                                                            65.0                      186.0
ESTIIATED POP. BELOW AfJOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (S)
URBAN                                                                            34.7
RURAL                                                                            65.4
NOT AVAILAIILE
NOT APPLLCASLE
N o T E S
/a   The group averaen for each Ladicator are population-wighted erltbmectc *  no.  Coverage of countries mass the
Indlcators dependa on avaLlabiLLty of data and le not uniform.
/b   Unless otherlwse noted.  Datc for 1960- refer to mny year between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for Monc Recent Ectime- between 1980 and 1982.
Ic   1977; /d 1962.
JUNE. 1984



- 16 -                                                                                        Annex I
tto"twtte bea"s at tIc Lath .1 taadpetdta  datliatlat A   Pa , tttatt   tee   he  'Ao dilart latItts  it attlattlo  l%- data. Mb data at. taebthas. aetaa  ta
dtadaita ctd.. ci -fotacattada         "-o.-W-. istt   iai.a    batta  .. eJat dlftt5ttt   hattt  taiatt*ta.ln
lTM  W-alaa   on".p at. CII tat atm     ee amp at tu bt -hea PAtat' tad CO) a Natata  i.p alit Ame,at hmalw  -tt   tea   that tha nNtq  shp d t
aahj.at grmmar (aiapt tar 'tuch tnameC It tugaaat     IAre. SLit  udii toancto ba   daa ad Midloae tsar i It a.d. hIwat  .1 SttnMP  taataa ltta
atitti    . In tararta   Ira. cdts Ift taflAan pnapitsi  -at'ift  a-ittatt. atasd tat ate  Itolat,a tAd MALm tae "a  ana.lt, of ala mo rtetg  ha
de."  hat data It tha t inttat.  lSt=  lha tatarta  at tadatti  .asa  tat itdstr a-dpaada at [th  attil        1tttt  at data Ma  t tat aKttia. atteoda ma  ha
*IAf!hsaad "q.tdo.                                ,         ~         ~         ~         agpa.~j                  - vateteatta dia."" IV sahar ti PaMttatag
- aa  mifaae. .m aaaprtt.tt                           P-AOII                                                        tafatadttateitti
P",a-sm   a. LIA    dkU.  W.                   .I.11-  O.                        Patajattaigat5ttittPta *ttltt    ita  h                  ta  ptta.
patr..ata  as wit.eha,  eb.  t     ta"ta notait "111d*                    astetSt.tpit. -   ..     rdnta    pmldlmr
H-rl -ttaon liftSnOdata.166412  -:.. l                                                          r,14 1at u a-"   otal.j   .   nAw   Pnal-tizts    tel
pnrnI- . nt'rol 8- P    NF4-.    t-eArsa.ntn             alcd   brat h.aptta  ht-e  a-talaa  at  a
toat. tad  ttl dat.                                                                                                         ."taaAtltL t-ftl~   at ataat.atd la w  ttwaa.c
-  a-it.tatt.6d.  - asitJay t   itS. ItItv,14                                   nd  Otlnt. at    I..tAi  boapnat a.  tatta        IF.. an 6:Te!."  o Ia.a
A-d  --1-11960.lo     it - alW     it-a t. tatt -apsftt.eg-                               Maid55   taats  a an- ar a-    atetgottt
pite 1. d.tlt.satra. 1ta atp titan. PswaeaLltt  at data -a JI,Masml.C  ah        ~t    an                                                t   h   tj
atat  eattPtat  tat.Ott  _.5t) .da, 11         -d:                                 -ta   atast f-  eas-L'tital RI pt.-n                               -
tae   ap  tia    ta  as = 1. sdtha,f.    aLt abS tsrtttt                           dattag.e?patt.r.Pait-a  .itt   ta aa Cataata
Fatt. Tb tp-At-r  tar  aIttiftty rat. ala  bat thia  at.-ta                           atteal  -ba. as tis daiILto4  raftatttate
atmll  atmitce ts   --trcdand9 a tam     - tand as ti tastY
platii  an raat.   .e.  taatv  atha tatistd -  at tata  iA-t t
-aiatit  a   estI  tal .ttt  Irtad  tarpralatitt  papaas                      1tttmtt            "lo-iat
straat  aUItraata  - I. - . tiet   ae- as   -pa-alteit  aatiae                                                  -1 as rants - Gt-ata aa, ta. as ft.."
a-t .a  -  tbtics  aitr  tai  pate. .iit  at-aa    -rrrttty                         ttitsi  tat-m   -  tat pitet  h-_I =t at          ..imato attmat
it.bai t1isttait.y ractta  at raptatst  itt  (tea                                    p'statr ttha..a    papittett  ac'tatlgy,lat   etta.a-          a-HI
raatat -tet.t.  a- aw. apdpattt-.  at. birth tea. a.  -1ta                        pnani bat adjwad ta- dittvas  Lewim- at patasay Alooeitat t
ash .ga  ta ta  d-t  aT, Atat tPa trettr  it a..  t a1tan.d a b tat                     tatata   ppLth attsna    A,ati  tantm a,a               tea2 qpsa
are- raaitta. Mbatataari  Apaea  sta  a~ ta1tteta  atF               mtaa  t   aiaanats.  Wntaattttt ttt
amt. as ta  tea at datum at tatttit I  Ttt  ta eapte-m- tata.                           tditstqta   t t   Wa tatr  .s.        PplsF ptt   ttodeatlnt
nstataata t.itat -ta tha tadatty fa  papatatia ermth 5 tasttmaptaaths ameat. tatstg-J       t.-.L tae  ticahap t_ nitatam  ta
ata  tat tie  that -I-apt natl-aai ristattit  ba baa aebtatad  tha                      tpqtiO aall at 32 ts tIF F-st als a....a.a-  mes  An
i.  ataala  ta  it    nea       e.- ba  aaittd it. lbt                              otarurty  -Jts..
nAmeln at    attilatta  1.ta al  gta it. mattid at a  t.t at tat                    laatttsttaa  qrtta  ae                         aaattanot tflowesa
tIttes  titee    aatap  at    aaeiaI saoa     "" .rL-W l    .t  pa  ,ealdd  rhta.ihttl       ta  atteet  eAd  W-tos
ta   =amta  thttrtt~eas.t  ttattttI fia  paartat9e     dpram   ttaa                                                               mta
tac.  -tO   data.  p-ttsti-at --1-aZIAeta   dAI- aaay  tad attsnd -atiat  ta                                                                      matdI
Para.  ha. ncrtatt-ra   Mad - C.appta  atata  tat ar-ttattra  mad                       a prtatl   Cat tet  dat  aptet  qad tis PAw             a
astt tte  tItt as tact c...
fttatttat tr _rttist,ststt  - Ciii... Il-I. tatr. -tkts-,a  It-lnt'l
LPy-i a    ais  i   t    sstI) at pa-ntee  ai aid-,aeraat   e   aretttdpmatt      ate    taaasiat
ramia-tat Ct     tN.              -N.t!nJ   - fet-  a-ati rate si arba                    bidiat  i  .arip tt pe Aats                  at staststt  -at
PIMaaaa.-  tat It                 idt1i-4t.                                             aiteitcattt.1   is tomtrtat ml it 7a Aa. raciattetso at inod
C,ada ttrth Utspa      .5afl - on-tL Las bhttti pa, thta.  isd                             ta       saln.dat trw tam   tAti ate ml is sAMAbitat aAm                :
tratabarbtees tar hamatt - smat sati  pa, leaad at  td-,r         it tetai  eaiatsttstttI - It eas...  ta- hiadtta 
ar.Uttiata.MPs   W-ANta._.taat at2tbar      e  itttari                            ttautsa   htpit,              tats.a P".    t    utwtat,am  aaTVat
p.Iltr.7         t-1Lta  dd drla  it.a-. ia adasr.t                                                                                             JtatIaalas  a
rattte risattac - beat tattam. at atettad ..maiLo-oNetatiassbatmmrrt.                                                        ft t. aata.
. at stidbtatra  0        sawp -irts.  ma-t   _W natd  t-raWv t                                     glnf           9      i      
1a4s,at Fnd et.c   t-.tss tta-t-tt     rltd. .i at aitiam . gyffl'-taatte  tsht  tes o w- p   agaat  at-.a t-ite teem.
_atda   t  t aa.a  asbt.  mt.    tat -L.,. ~ptimre sad  i.                         tatnW - asammac  al tea         ta     ..r a.m . tOa .w. a-M    1t
trmasw Amatldai.Idttmt  rdatis.tat.-ablat laits [MO.aSct t  aeatai ttel  ab   srctlssngl
bat Wttaiia  aat J.daarar. asrattat  as-s.Wt.  ad tot,                              as tasi cat..V Ineu  
a  A-t..t.                                                                    Pan -a   11.C.I  tetaIr a lata (tarstat)- teat WAis  astrant.4 -FI-tial ana  at
tsr eats .nM  te at e-idt.tm tie..ia        a-dtr.mtia    h - Caaedia                     agattal .t.  an -Ataa    as P--atnt -Fte  md Iamb te-nPlts at.
day.esetebe srati. aapeaitd.a.ttteeaastat.t.t tP a              t            ee.  ilt  as t-L dt.  li. f1 ata         .at rW  pa1ti apoatpat teas
qatsta   m  to las pritmaa. ad litta  t d.arlbatea.  Utati-                        fat iaaa  alt tam  Wtatas  smt.
.a.Iais atamtd by FaG hasp as O 93.hiitaaaa  -adaf     - ta  ttt                                  I~f t. - teanU    pmattte  nnim, isa hi ad-e
1attty as  -Iatib aatadsta  -aa - .ata  a-ap-ta. bacy -Ltab..                          aistibaaqW ." --t-ta  (ttha agd tIs-"At.
et  athtii.t  lot-i ~t-na    tw    jt.                                             teat ato.ag....
ma%-pt t ad  a d.I  isa-y, a.. a.rt atw fd it.  datin .a-pam,rats   tpa...                                                       a...a    atiga  pvm
qaemt . e' ai   mera  atita-hylt   fla    a                    _tt  _aaa.hatda.
palmpaat,a  eag trii        Am.bat. ha aata-t pemta  Ibt.                           tittt  1S?f
data.         [.---a.e    l  -4    " "  ,M1 ... I aiacb I..                                            WW-t   -6 1
::K-  1-  -i-In -  W-  t. '__  n,I &F: SW[  1. 1.70t.ada at7. ndjataa  e  biajr sass atl litfas te  Jm NA mats.
ChUW   1acat, at-taptia t.ait  -  ..sa.  a. -trCe..f girt.An      rtmi.ta                  a  ae    tar.. atpaahtimtaasana)                       a    asatat
'sal,tr ate pat          e titatt   t. tAl- tts.  loreta   lfla data.n - .  A                                                     -91   ntdf=t             .
WAmitaty . fstti (as  p tttat  a      .-J.their ra.att pa .at i. tea
iM         p- y  atatdrda  hat06- atehtt eta"bi  tItat -          tha
lb a, t  tasatw  ti  rasptyn  , an.  m      t..
Ant. s     it1a (tartti attatata - tet are. aMes
ad 4 aa. asat1 b  te   rat-att   teaa   atlt  m  1ptprama
ttatle       atatatpitm



17 -                               ANNEX I
Page 4
DMCCRAfC REPUIILIC DP SAD TOE AND PRINCIPE
ECOHOMIC INDICATUSO
Aiount
(dllkm lS*
(ui Laot Its$ at
National Accounts  current prices)      In million of Dobras constant 19W prices   1980-1983
1983               1980      1981     1982    1983        Average %  annul
Crank Rate
Crosa Dom. Product
at Market Prices       31.5                1629     1235      1269   1031            -16.4
Consumption            38.7                1640     1549      1528   1399             -5.5
Government             14.7                435      438       486    531             +7.0
Private                24.0               1205      1111     1043    868            -U.5
Investnent              7.5                 655      328       783    327
Export of GII           10.1                720      463       497     394           -22.0
Imports of GUS         24.8                1385     fl05      1540   1089               -
Gross Dom. Savings      -7.2                -11     -314      -259   -368
Prices
GDP Deflator                                100     104.0    120.1  131.1
Average Exchanga Rate Period (USSI-)         35.17   38.86    41.49  42.85
Cocoa Prices (US J/g)                       238     198       168    212
GOVERNME  FDICE        M Dobras at current prices             In % of Groa Domestic Product
1981      1982       1983             1981          2982       1953
Current Revenues        645       537         518              50.1          38.4       38.4
Current Expenditures    516       590         707              40.2         42.2        52.4
alence of Current Budget 129      -53         -78              10.1          -3.8       -5.6
Capital Expenditures    338       755         323              26.3          54.0       23.9
Tresaury Operatics      -49       80        -286              -3.8           5.7      -21.2
Overall Public Sector
Deficit               -260      -728        -797             -20.2         -52.1      -59.0
Foreign Fiancing         97       466         109               7.6          33.3       15.5
805KY. CREDIU AND PRICES    In Million of Dobras at the end of the period (a)
1984               1982               1983
Domestic Credit              1238               1679               2027
Goveroent                   -736               -473                -31
Public Enterprises          1875               2015               1887
Private Sector                98                137                171
Mony and Quasi Noney         959               1071               1422
Net Foreign Assets            216               -125                -97
Money and Quasi Money in t of
GDP                           74.6               76.6              104.3
Annual Change in:
Mony Supply                    -                 16.8               32.7
Domestic Credit                 5.2              11.7               20.7
CDP Deflator                   4.0                5.9               18.9
(a) At current prices



ANNEX I
Page,
EXAL TRADEZ                   Amt
(tM US  at current  In   of Gross Domestic Product
prices) 1963           1981       1982      1983
Merchandise Export.           U.5                  21.5      25.8      27.1
cocoa                       6.8                  17.5      23.4      2L.5
Capra                       1.4                   3.0       1.7       4.3
Frozen risb                 0.3                    -         -        0.9
Merchandise Import.          17.4                  65.7      78.9      55.2
Foodstuffs                  5.7                  11.6      14.7      18.2
Other Cossuner Goods        2.3                  28.0       5.9       7.3
Energy                      1.7                   3.6       5.5       5.3
RaY materials &
Seai-finished Products      2.2                   9.3      14.0       7.1
Capital Goods               5.4                  13.5      39.4      17.2
Trade Balance              -8.9                 -44.2     -53.1     -28.1
(excluding capital pod.
imports)                  -3.5                 -30.7    -13.7      -10.9
Exporc Price Index
(1980 - 1D0)                 -                   79.2      89.2    I10.2
Import price index
(1980 - 100)                 -                 102.4       98.4      97.7
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS           In USS Million (s)             In t of Gross Domestic Product
1981      1982      1983               1981      1982       1983
Merchandise, f.o.b.      -14.6     -17.9      - 8.9             -44.2     -53.1       -28.2
Services (net)           - 3.7     - 8.2      - 6.5             -11.2     -24.2      -20.7
Private Transfers          0.8       0.4        1.2               2.3       1.4         3.8
Official Transfers       - 0.4       1.0        5.5             - 1.1       2.9        17.2
Current Account Balance  -17.9     -24.7      - 8.7             -54.1     -73.2      -27.7
Non NMoetary Capital (net) 3.7      21.1        4.4              11.2      62.6        13.9
Overall Balance          -14.2     - 3.6      - 4.4             -42.9     -10.6       -13.8
Financing
Chunge in Net Foreigm
Assees                   4.1       4.0        2.1              12.4      11.9         6.7
Change in Arrears        10.1     - 0.4        2.2              30.4      -1.3         7.1
EXTERMAL DEBT                           In Million of US$ (a)
1980      1981      1982      1983
External Debt Ouatsanding
(disbursed, end of year)     1.99      20.6       36.1      39.1
Arrears Outatading               -       10.1       9.1      11.0
External Debt Service          0.3        0.6       2.1       2.3
Interest                       0.04      0.05       0.42      0.46
Amortization                   0.23       0.55      1.7       1.9
MeO:
Debt Service Ratio (t)        1.5        5.0      17.5      22.8
External Debt Outstandlng in
S of CDP                    43.0       64.8     107.1    124.1
(a) At current prices



- 19 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 6
IMW/IDA LendinR December 1. 1984
IMtD      IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed     0.0       0.0
Undisbursed                   0.0       0.0
Outstanding Including
Undisburbed                  0.0       0.0
WAGES AND EnDLOyTENT                    1980                                   1983
Wage Bill     Labor Force    Per worker    Wage Bill  Labor Force   Per Worker
USS      %      '000             u sS         USS          '000    v         s$
(a)                                       (a)
Agriculture,
Livestock and
Fishing           13.9    62.1   14.7  71.0         9416         9.80   51.1 11.7  65.3       837
Non-Agricultural
Productive Sector 3.5    15.6      2.7   13.0       1296         3.7   20.8   3.2   17.9    1156
Government          5.0    22.3     3.3   15.9      1515          4.3    24.2   3.0   16.8    1433
TOTAl             22.4   100.0    20.7  100.0       1077        17.8   100.0  17.9  100.0     994
(a) at current prices



- 20 -
ANNEX II
BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN SAO TOME AIND PRINCIPE
INot applicable
This credit would be the first operation in the country.



_ 21 -
ANNEX III
SAO TOME AMD.PRINCIPE
LINE OF CREDIT FOR ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
Date of first presentation to the Bank         October 1983
Preparation Mission                           January 1984
Appraisal Mission                              October 1984
Planned date of Effectiveness                 July 1985
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
Review of sub-project proposals
Section III:   Special Conditions
a)   Sub-projects requiring external financing over
$50,000 up to an aggregate limit of $500,000 would
be approved by the Association. (para. 28).
b)   Unless agreed otherwise, sub-projects requiring
external financing over $600,000 would not be
eligible for financing under the project. (para.
28).
c)   As a condition of effectiveness, a project
coordinator satisfactory to the Association would be
appointed in the Central Planning Directorate.
(para. 27).



- 22 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 12
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
LINE OF CREDIT FOR ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION
SUBPROJECTS
Use of Funds by Sector and Subprojects (1985)
US$
1. Agriculture                                               798,000
Fertilizers                                             150,000
Pesticides                                              543,000
Veterinary Clinic                                        35,000
Technical Assistance                                     70,000
2. Transportation                                            577,000
Road Maintenance & Repairs                              227,000
Import of spare parts                                   350,000
3. Fisheries                                                 514.000
Freezing storage                                        360,000
Transportation fleet                                     24,000
Spare parts                                             130,000
4. Power and Water                                           728,500
Import of water meters                                   30,000
Import of electric meters                               377,000
Import of billing equipment                              75,000
Refinancing of PPF                                      246,500
Total (1985)                                               2,617.500
Others                                                     2,382,500



- U
- 23 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 12
SUBPROJECTS
SUBPROJECTS 1 & 2: TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Sectoral Content
1.        Sia Tome and PrIncipe (STP) inherited from the Portuguese a
relatively extended network of roads. There are 200 km of bitumen roads
and approximately 180 km of packed dirt roads on the island of Sao Tome.
The total number of vehicles under 8 years old was estimated at 3,500 in
1983, 45X of which are used for commercial purposes (buses, light and heavy
trucks, machinery). The Directorate of Transport and Ports of the Ministry
of Transport and Commmnication is responsible for coordinating the
maintenance and repair of the land transport network. The repairs are
undertaken by the Construction Division (Ministry of Industry, Construction
and Eousing) or by a private Portuguese construction company, Ramalho Rosa.
Ltd. In addition, the Ministry of Transport and Ports is in the process of
setting up a resealing unit within the Ministry, whose objective would be
to carry on routine maintenance and emergency repairs in a more timely
fashion. Spare parts for all privately owned vehicles are sold through the
Stand Nacional, a State-owned enterprise responsible to the Ministry of
Transport and Communication.
2.        The present condition of the main roads is precarious.  The lack
of maintenance and repairs since independence has led to a progressive
deterioration of the network. Potholes are found virtually everywhere and
a significant portion of the network needs total resurfacing. Ramalho Rosa
Ltd., in a study published in 1982, estimated the total cost of repairing
the network at $22 million. Such an investment being out of proportion
with the country's size and financial situation, the Directorate of
Transport has undertaken a study on traffic frequency and on the condition
of Sao Tome's network in order to establish priority investments. Traffic
counts show that on.ay 4 roads have daily traffic in excess of 350 vehicles
a day. One of them (the Airport Road) is in good condition. The remaining
three roads (North, South and Center) cover a total distance of 120 km, of
which 34 km need selected resealing and 86 km require total resurfacing.
Subproject 1: Road Maintenance and Repair
Description and Objectives
3.        The resurfacing capacity of the construction company is estimated
at 30 km/year. In addition, the company has the equipment and manpower
necessary to reseal some 20 km per year. The equipment is presently idle
because of the lack of asphalt in the country. Under the Economic Rehabi-
litation and Modernization Line of Credit, the Association would finance
the import of asphalt to resurface and reseal selected portions of Sio
TomE's road network. In agreement with the Directory of Transport it was
determined that the road between Sio Tomk and Neves should be repaired in
priority considering the great number of commercial vehicles using the
road. Neves is an industrial city and port some 27 km from Sao Tome. Most
of the traffic consists of EMPESCA and ENCO trucks distributing fish and
petroleum products respectively throughout the country. The brewery is



-24-                         ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 12
also located in Neves. In addition to 17 km of complete resurfacing and 10
km of selected resealing of the North Road, it is proposed to finance 10 km
of selected resealing on the Center Road, between Slo Tomn and Trindada,
the second largest town in the country.  The Government of Sbo Tome vould
provide both equipment and manpower, and the asphalt would be imported in
quantities conforming to the agreed work program.
Costs and Justification
4.        The asphalt cost per km of complete resurfacing is estimated at
$11,000 and the asphalt cost per km of selected resealing is estimated at
$2,000. The total amount financed through the project during the first
year would thus be $227,000. During the second year, the Association wculd
finance the asphalt cost of the rehabilitation of the South Road between
Sio Tome and Ribeira Afonso. This road is mainly used to transport cocoa
to Sao Tome harbor and for daily commuting between Santana and Sbo Tome. A
detailed implementation plan would be prepared by the Project Coordination
unit and the Directorate of Transport taking into account the results
obtained during the first year. The benefits of such an investment for STP
are high because of the opportunity cost resulting from idle equipment and
mnmpower. Furthermore, the present condition of the road network is such
that without urgent repair and maintenance the cost of rehabilitation is
likely to be much higher in the future. Finally, the condition of the
roads causes excessive breakdown of vehicles whose use-life is reduced by
as much as 40% in relation to the manufacturer's specifications.
Subproject 2: Import of Spare Parts
Description and Objectives
5.        The second component of the Credit in the transportation sector
concerns spare parts for commercial and privately owned vehicles. Of the
estimated 3,500 vehicles on the island, about 50% are idle because of lack
of spare parts. Only 6 of the 22 buses are presently in operation. and 70X
of the taxis are out of service, waiting for spare parts. This situation
leads to an over utilization of the functioning vehicles and the diversion
of transport trucks and tractors for passenger transportation.
6.        The lack of foreign exchange, a consequence of declining cocoa
production, and procurement procedures are the main reasons behind the
shortage of spare parts. Within the Ministry of Transport and Ports, all
the Directorates have their own maintenance workshops. The Ministry of
Industry has a large garage/workshop within the Directorate of Construc-
tion. The workshops are generally well organized and conveniently staffed
with experienced nechanics, but without work because of the lack of spare
parts. The Stand Nacional markets spare parts to the private sector but
its stock is virtually nonexistent. The procedures to import parts are
very cumbersome and inflexible. The different Ministries and the Stand
Nacional prepare, once a year, a list of parts. The procedure then
involves the Ministry of Plan, which is responsible for foreign exchange
allocation, the ECOMEX which is the procurement company and the Central
Bank which controls the foreign exchange payments.



_ 25 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 12
Costs and Justification
7.        Under the Credit, procurement procedures would be simplified
since the Ministry of Transport and the Stand Nacional would be working
directly through ECOMEX. It has been agreed with So Tomean authorities to
give priority to public transportation (buses and taxis). The cost of
rehabilitation of the bus fleet, plus the building-up of a stock of spare
parts representing one year's demand is estiuated at $150,000 (list of
parts to be financed available in the Project file). Cost estimates for
the taxi component are being prepared by the Ministry of Transport and will
be submitted to the project coordination unit. Similar financing has been
made available to STP by the African Development Bank for imports of spare
parts in the agricultural sector.
Transport cnlponent of the credit (1985)
(Subprojects 1 & 2)
I.  Subproject 1: Road maintenance and repair (asphalt only)       US$
Sio Tome - Neves : 17 km of resurfacing                     187,000
Sbo Tome - Neves : 10 km of selected resealing               20,000
Sao Tome - Trindade : 10 km of selected resealing            20,000
227,000
II. Subproject 2: Import of spare parts for the public transport syntem
US$
Spare parts for buses                                       150,000
Spare parts for taxis                                       200,000
350,000



- 26 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 12
Subproject 3: Fisheries Sector
Sectoral Content
8.        Following the epidemic which wiped out pork production in the late
seventies, fishing became the principal source of protein in STP. It is the
most dynamic sector of the economy with total catch increasing from 505 tons
in 1974 to 4050 tons in 1983, of which 754 tons were exported. The fishing
sector is composed of artisanal fishermen who were responsible for 38% of
total catch in 1983 and the industrial fishing undertaken by the state
enterprise EMPESCA. Contribution of the fishing sector to GDP increased from
2.5Z in 1980 to 4.7Z in 1983. Industrial catch in the first half of 1984 has
been hampered by boat failures, labor unrest and imbalances between fishing,
storage and distribution capacities.
9.        The artisanal sector is composed of 1200 fishermen in 19 colonies.
The artisanal sector production is estimated at 1500 tons in 1983, up from 244
tons in 1974 and 1238 tons in 1980. This sector is supported by an IFAD
project whose objective is to increase productivity by financing the
acquisition of small engines and spare parts. The fishermen market their
products on the free market at an average price of 380 dobras/kg, 8 times the
official price for frozen fish sold by EMPESCA.
The Implementing Agency: EMPESCA
10.       The fishing state enterprise owns 5 small fishing boats and two
large fishing-processing vessels. The small boats are not operational because
of a lack of spare parts. EMPESCA's current production is carried out by the
two large vessels acquired in 1980 and 1982. Each vessel has a crew of 41 and
a fishing capacity of respectively 270 tons and 400 tons. EMPESCA also owns a
freezing/storage facility with an effective storage capacity of 380 tons. The
distribution of fish to the consumers and to the storage facility of Sao Tom-
is also the responsibility of EMPESCA which has a fleet of 6 medium size '
trucks (20 tons). Half the distribution fleet is presently idle because of
lack of maintenance and spare parts.  EMPESCA has its own repair shop with
qualified mechanics.
Description and Objectives
11.       Total catch of the industrial sector up to September 1984 stands at
only 50% of the 1983 level. This decline can be attributed to three causes:
(i) both vessels were damaged in the first semester - because of the lack of
maintenance and repair capacity, the boats had to be sent to Spain for repair;
(ii) EMPESCA experienced severe labor problems, with direct effect on
productivity; and (iii) because of poor management, the schedules of the two
boats were insufficiently coordinated, resulting in unnecessary delays in
unloading the vessels. Insufficient storage and distribution capacity
aggravated this problem. In spite of the low volume, and excluding the
amortization of boats, EMPESCA remained marginally profitable in the first
three quarters of 1984.
12.       Government has taken a number of measures to deal with EMPESCA's
managerial problems. The Ministry of Fishing was abolished, and the company



- 27 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 12
is now integrated in the Ministry of Commerce. A new administrator was
appointed at EMPESCA in 1984. An agreement with the workers was reached in
August, and for the first time in STP, take home pay varies according to
productivity.  More specifically, sailors' earnings now depend both on the
catch volume and the duration of the fishing trip, while the unloading crew's
salaries depend on the speed of the operations. According to the company's
management, the time necessary to unloaJ che boats has been reduced from 12/14
days to 415 days. The sales price of the frozen fish is fixed by the Govern-
ment and varies between Db 8 and 45 per kg according to species and a study is
underway to determine the optimum level of these prices.
13.       A problem that needs resolution is the imbalance among EMPESCA's
fishing, storage and distribution capacities. The effective storage capacity
(380 tons) represents only 6.8% of the total annual catch capacity and the
fishing vessels are used as storage facilities when there is no on-shore
storage available. The distribution capacity is actually estimated at 11 tons
per day (245 tons per month). Because of the lack of spare parts to maintain
the existing fleet, and the over-utilization of the operating trucks, this
situation is likely to deteriorate in the near future. The management of
EMPESCA has proposed an investment program which would: (i) increase the
maintenance capacity on both vessels and on the distribution fleet by
importing spare parts; (ii) augment the cold storage volume by the acquisition
of an additional freezing room of 250 tons of capacity; and (iii) expand the
distribution capacity by the acquisition of two pick-up trucks for short
distance deliveries.
EMPESCA PRODUCTION LINE CAPACITY
(IN TONS PER MONTH)
Fishing   One Time Effective Storage   Distribution
1984                          467              380                       245
1985 (after investment)       520              580                       490
Costs
14.       The spare parts component of the investment will include the import
of spare parts to rehabilitate and maintain the 6 existing trucks, estimated
at $30,000, the import of parts and material to repair two of the 5 small
fishing boats actually damaged ($20,000) and the import of spare parts
($30,000) which will allow partial maintenance on the two vessels, thus saving
a trip to Cape Verde for routine maintenance. With the acquisition of two
pick-up trucks ($24,000, including 10% for spare parts) for short distance
deliveries, the distribution capacity will be double, from 11 to 22 tons per
day. The additional fishing capacity resulting from local maintenance of the
two vessels and the repair of the two small fishing boats is estimated at 636
tons per year. The acquisition cost of a 250 ton cold storage room is
estimated at $360,000, including an additional forklift truck and a generator
to counter the frequent power shortages. Finally, the credit will finance the
import of various parts for the maintenance of the fishing capacity such as
nets, cables, etc., for an amount not to exceed $50,000.



- 28 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 12
Investment Financed by the Line of Credit
US$
1.  Freezing storage room (250 tons)                                   360,000
2.  Pick-up trucks (2) and spare parts                                   24,000
3.  Spare parts to repair trucks and stock for 1 year                    30,000
4.  Spare parts to allow routine maintenance of fishing vessels          30,000
5.  Spare parts to repair 2 of the damaged small fishing boats           20,000
6.  Spare parts and various fishing materials                           50,000
Total                    514,000
Justification
15.       EMPESCA warrants support because it is the vector for two innova-
tive policies in the Sio Tomean context. First, the above-mentioned new
remuneration system has already increased productivity and improved
relations between workers and management. Second, the company was allowed
to apply its own foreign exchange earnings against the foreign exchange
costs incurred in maintaining the boats. Such a policy constitutes a
departure from the centralized foreign exchange allocation system now in
use in the country. The strengthening of the fishing sector allows for
both a reduction in imports and an increase in exports. As all the
substitutes for fish (meats) are imported or require imported feed to be
produced locally, increasing fish production and distribution should lower
the demand for imported proteins and inputs, and reduce STP's dependency on
foreign aid. The considerable amount of foreign aid the country is
receiving renders a precise evaluation of the foreign exchange savings
difficult. The impact on export earnings of increasing the production to
6,500 tons is estimated at $200,000/year, assuming that 20S of the catch is
exported at an average price of $350 per ton.



- 29 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 12
SUBPROJECT: POWER/WATER SECTOR
Sectoral Content
16.       Total energy consumption in STP is estimated at 15,000 TOE per
year of which 5,000 TOE are from non-commercial sources such as firewood
and agricultural wastes.  About 6,000 tons of refined petroleum are
imported each year from Angola. The hydroelectric potential on both
islands is estimated at 200 GWh per annum, of which less than 10 percent
has been developed so far. Power demand in year 2000 is not expected to
exceed 66 GWh. The electricity generation capacity is estimated at 5,720
kwh, divided between 2000 kwh by hydrogeneration and 3,720 KWh by thermo-
generation.   Effective thermogeneration capacity, however, is currently
limited to 1,500 KWh due to breakdowns, lack of spare parts and maintenance
capacity.  In the water sector, the Sio Tjme water supply system, con-
structed in 1955, has a capacity of 400 m /hr which is adequate to meet
actual demand.
Description and Objectives
17.       The Empresa de Agua e Electricidade (EMAE) is the State Enter-
prise responsible for electricity production and electricity and water
distribution. EMAE was created at independence and is controlled by the
Hinistry of Industry, Construction and Housing (MICH). EMAE has a total
staff of 250, including 3 executives and 6 departments heads. Maintenance
standards are poor in both power and water divisions due to the lack of
skilled technicians, tools and spare parts. However, the staff do a
commendable job given the lack of inputs and show a keenness to learn.
Since the prepalation of the first Power/Water Project (1982), the situa-
tion of EMAE has significantly deteriorated because the increase in number
of customers has not been accompanied by a correspondent increase in energy
generation and accounting capacity. Total number of customers is estimated
at 11,000, only half of them being equipped with meters. This represents a
45 percent increase over 1981. EMAE has not been able to prepare annual
accounts in 1982 and 1983 due to the lack of qualified accountants. The
breakdown of two antiquated billing machines in 1983 has provoked a serious
backlog in the company's billing division. In October 1984, EMAE was
completing the billing of June 1984. The backlog has had a direct impact
on EMAE cash situation. Furthermore, the loss of income on non-metered
consumers, who are presently billed on a consumption pattern estimated at
the date of connection, is evaluated at 50 percent by the Direction of
EMAE.
Costs and Justifications
18.       The Government is fully aware of EMAE precarious situation and is
awaiting the completion of a joint World Bank/UNDP Energy Assessment Report
- scheduled for completion in mid-1985 - to define the best long-term
energy policy for the country. Priority investments in the energy sector
and possible sources of financing would then be discussed at the UNDP Donor
Round Table to be held in Sio Tome in the fall of 1985.  In the meantime,
the CGovernment has asked the Association to finance, through the economic
Rehabilitation  and Modernization  line of  credit,  the  import  of



- 30 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 12
electricity/water counters and accounting equipment. The objective of the
investment is to solve the most urgent operational problems of EMAE by
rapidly reestablishing the billing capacity and reabsorbing the actual
backlog, and by installing, over a period of two years, the meters which
will allow the company to charge customers on a real consumption basis.
EMAE new meters installation capacity is estimated at 4,000 per year. For
water meters, the installation capacity is 2,500/year. The total cost of
meter imports for 1985 is estimated at $407,000. The accounting machine
cost is estimated at $75,000, including two man/months of techbical
assistance provided by the manufacturer. The amount to be financed the
second year would depend on the effective meter installation in 1985.
Subproject 4: Power/Water Sector (1985)
US$
1.        Imports of 2,500 water meters                             30,000
2.        Imports of 4,300 electric meters and load regulators   377,000
3.        Import of billing equipment, including
technical assistance (2 months)                           75,000
Total                                                   482,000
19.       The African Development Bank is preparing a technical assistance
project for EMAE, the objectives of which are to strengthen the accounting
systems, the maintenance and management of the equipment, and the training
of personnel. A total of 45 man/months are budgeted under the technical
assistance project, including an expatriate Certified Public Accountant for
a duration of two years, who will be able to assist the IDA project coor-
dinator and EMAE to select the most suitable billing equipment to be
financed under the Economic Rehabilitation and Modernization Line of
Credit.



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 12
SUBPROJECTS 5,6 & 7: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Sectoral Content
20.       The poor economic performance of STP since independence, and
particularly since 1980, stems largely from the inability of the Government
in managing efficiently the agricultural sector. Cocoa production averaged
10,000t in the years preceding independence and production has gradually
declired to 3,600t in 1983. It is expected to remain at this level in
1984. Cocoa represents over 90% of the country's export earnings and the
consequences of the production decline on an economy with very limited
prospects for import substitution cannot be overstated.  Low foreign
exchange earnings resulted in a shortage of consumer and intermediate goods
which progressively contributed to the paralization of the other sectors of
the economy. The shortage of foreign exchange contributes to further
decline in cocoa production, as imported inpuEs such as fertilizers,
pesticides and spare parts for agricultural machinery are not available
anymore. Average yields are presently estimated at 180 kg/ha, one third of
their pre-independence levels. Finally, the shortage of foreign exchange
has reduced the supply of traditionally imported foodstuffs which has led
to intercropping cocoa with subsistence food crops and has further
contributed to the yield decrease. Two other factors are responsible for
the poor performance of the cocoa subsector: (i) managerial and
organizational problems at the state farm level; and (ii) an inadequate
incentive system.
Justification
21.       The Bank and the Sao Tomean Government are addressing these
issues in depth through a proposed Cocoa Rehabilitation Project, which is
under preparation. The Government has also agreed to a revision of the
incentive system in order to increase the productivity of the agricultural
workers by attributing to each worker a cocoa plantation plot and by
linking the salaries with the productivity of the plot. In addition, food
*            plots would be distributed to the workers as a reward for good husbandry in
the cocoa plantation. The Government has already agreed to study the
organization of the state farms and their relations with the Central
Government. As the first benefits of the Cocoa Rehabilitation project
cannot be expected before the end of 1986, the Sio Tomean Government asked
the Association to finance the import of fertilizers and pesticides in 1985
and 1986. The objective of the Credit is to avoid further decline in cocoa
production before the introduction of far-reaching reforms in the sector
through the Cocoa Rehabilitation project.
Subproject 5: Import of Fertilizers
22.       Theoretical amounts of fertilizers to be applied have been
estimmated with the technical help of Bank/FAQ missions. However, the
knowledge of the correct mix of fertilizer varies according to the chemical
composition of the soils and it is not possible, at this stage, to
determine with precision the correct mixes to be applied. Furthermore, the
effective application capacity is unknown. The Credit will finance only a
part of the 1985 fertilizer requirement, and will finance a study on the



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 12
chemical composition of the soils so as to determine the best fertilizer
mixes for different areas. A technical mission FAO/IRCC (Institut de
Recherche pour le Cafe et le Cacao) visited Siao Tome recently to determine
the fertilizer needs.  A medium-level technician (cooperant) financed by
the Line of Credit would join the FAO/IRCC mission and remain in Sio Tome
for one year in order to collect soil samples, ship them to France for
chemical analysis, and train Sao Toiaan in the application of fertilizers.
The cost of the technical assistance is estimated at $50,000, including the
cost of the chemical analysis. The amount of fertilizers financed the
first year (1985) would be limited to $150,000: this amount would be
revised for the second year according to the result of the study.
Subproject 6: Imports of Pesticides
23.       Pesticides and fungicides are urgently required to stop the
decline in yields. An estimated 15% of the 1983 cocoa production was lost
because of rodents. The quantities necessary to treat preventively 13,000
ha twice a year have been established by the mission and the Government.
In addition, a list of the pesticides to be stocked in order to treat 1,000
ha of contaminated areas was prepared. Total costs of pesticides and
fungicides imports for 1985 are estimated at $543,000.  In order to
increase the application capacity and enhance the application techniques
presently in use, the Line of Credit will finance a one-month seminar on
pesticides application. The cost of the seminar is estimated at $20,000.
Subproject 7: Veterinary Clinic
24.       The Ministry of Agriculture is presently in the process of
setting-up a veterinary clinic - the first one in the country. In addition
to routine animal health tasks, one of the objectives of the laboratory is
to study the conditions under which cattle, pigs and poultry can be fed
locally grown products instead of imported feed. The line of credit would
finance the acquisition of small items of equipment, vaccines and other
chemicals for an amount not exceeding $35,000.



- 33 -              ~~~ANNE  IV
Page 12 of 12
Subprojects 5,6 & 7: Agricultural Sector (1985)
Summary Cost Table
US$
I.   Subproject 5: Import of Fertilizers           Total           200,000
-    Import of fertilizers                                    150,000
-    Technical Assistance on chemical
composition of soils                                     50,000
II.  Subproject 6: Import of Pesticides            Total           563,000
-    Imports of pesticides                                    543,000
-    Seminar on pesticide
application                                              20,000
III. Subproject 7: Veterinary Clinic
-    Imports of small equipment, vaccines and
chemicals                                                35.000
Total - Agricultural Sector                             798,000



IBRD 13640
JUNt 1971
i A F R I C A    \<J 
-,30
D,o'oVa           Fo            -
.~~    ~~~                                                     I *z /\o&^        
L   '-f 11 ,<-'';|1g'. i
soma'                                    \-*rC                                              e7
-j~~~~~~~~~~-
Juliono do Soua - 
Colon./ Ac.eono
l- ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~                ~         ~~       ~     ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~        a-8 W.'J'-X -
U~~~~~ -,                                                              .s'            .E-_ 
L
Democratic Reublic oF Sao TomU Ond Princip.
SAO TOME
-1    iain .mds
Rive's
,~~~~                                                     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Tow .p,nr
o]   Io,pao.ro  plantationss
,Elovaros i mewsI
--County boundre
KILOMEERS
-r                                     COLAS                                                              0       !      2   -3        4 1
.010LAS t                              - Democrofic R         MIpLES o
ViE~$                                             o                      V4Frs          AOT M






