OFFICIAL
EFI TAJ CREDIT NUMBER 1590 STP
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Rehabilitation and Modernization Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       A   P, 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1590 STP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                               , 1985, between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SA0 TOME AND PRINC,PE (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, hase requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions'
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the   context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated November 23, 1979 and
January 11, 1980 between the Borrower and the Association;
(c) "Sub-project" means a specific Sub-project under Part A
of the Project to be carried out by the Borrower and for which
the Borrower has requested or obtained financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and "free-limit Sub-project" means a "'Sub-
project" for the financing of which less than SDR 55,000 equiva-
lent out of the proceeds of the Credit is requested; and


﻿-2-
(d)  "Project Coordinator" means the coordinator referred to
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terps and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Right: (SDR 5,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central
Bank (Banco Nacional de So Tome e Prfncipe) on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and pay-
ments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn      and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall prompt@; notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿-3-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall reasonably    request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the,_"urposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amcunt
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1995, and ending November 15,
2034. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2004 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project or cause
the Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate financial and administrative
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Pro-
ject.


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the go'ds and works required f or the Pro-
ject and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
employment of consultants to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For purposes of assisting the Borrower in,
inter alia, selecting and analyzing the Sub-projects, coordi-
nating the carrying out of the Project by the departments and
agencies of the Borrower and supervising the execution of the
Sub-projects,   the  Borrower  shall   employ  a   qualified  and
experienced Project Coordinator. The provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement shall apply to the employment of the Project
Coordinator.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall request the Associa-
tion's approval of any proposed Sub-project for which the Bor-
rower requests financing out of the proceeds of the Credit of
more than SDR 55,000 equivalent and less than SDR 650,000 equi-
valent. For this purpose, the Borrower hall furnish to the Asso-
ciation an evaluation of the proposed Sub-project and a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be ),.inanced out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit. In the case of free-limit Sub-projects, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a brief description of
the Sub-project and evidence of its approval by the Project Coor-
dinator. The amounts set forth in this Section may be changed by
agreement of the Borrower and the Association.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
requests and information referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section shall be presented to the Association on or before Decem-
ber 31, 1986.
Section 3.05. In the case of Sub-projects to be carried out
by entities other than the Borrower, the Borrower shall transfer
to any such entity such proceeds of the Credit as shall be allo-
cated to the Sub-project to be carried out by it. The terms and
conditions and contractual arrangements for any such transfer
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in


﻿5-
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Project Coordinator has been em-
ployed.
Section 5.02. The date 60 days after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿6-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minis tro do Plano
Sao Tomé
Republica Democratica de Sao Tomé e Principe
Telex:
225 MIPLANO STP
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representativis, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND
PRINCIPE
By/        0O7i              A~~#tC
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By4//b~
A otw-0 Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be finarnced in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Goods for specific         2,440,000         100% of foreign
Sub-projects                                expenditures
(2)  Consultants'                 460,000        100%
Services
(3)  Training                .    110,000        100%    .
(4)  Special Account              530,000        Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 (a) of
Schedule 4 to
this AgreeMent
(5)  Refunding of                 260,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6) Unallocated                 1,500,000
TOTAL                 5,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.


﻿9
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;.-
(b) payments made for expenditures in respect of a Sub-pro-
ject estimated to cost SDR 650,000 equivalent or more;
(c) payments made for expenditures in respect of a Sub-pro-
ject other than a free-limit Sub-project unless such Sub-project
has been approved by the Association;
(d) payments made for expenditures in respect of free-limit
Sub-projects exceeding in the aggregate SDR 550,000 equivalent;
and
(e) payment made for expenditures in respect of a. Sub-pro-
ject to be carried for an entity other than the Borrower under
Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement unless the Bor-
rower has entered into the contractual arrangements referred
thereto.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to maintain the productive
capacity and essential economic services of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Specific  Sub-projects consisting   of  investments in
various sectors of the Borrower's economy required to
utili7e existing assets more efficiently.
Part B:   Studies and training related to areas of economic
activity ,ithin the scope of the above objectives.
The Project is expected td be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿-11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procggrement and Consultants, Services
Procurement of Goods and Works
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, may be procured under con-
tracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of =bids
invited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Accourit, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed


﻿-12-
copies of the contract, together with the other information re-
quired to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tionp, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Cuidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿13 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to: be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (3) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in.
dollars equivalent to the amount allocated to Category 4 whch is
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for, replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿-14-
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Cre-
dit Account under the respective Categories (1) through (3), and
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justi-
fied by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when
the total,unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1) through (3) for the Pro-
ject, minus the amount of any outstanding quali-
fied agreement to reimburse made by the Associa-
tion and of any outstanding apecial commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent
of twice the amount of th4 Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (1) through (3) for the Project shall follow such proce-
dures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Bor-
rower. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such fur-
ther withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of


﻿- 15 -
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Associa\tion shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy f7he original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


