 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14773

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 06/22/2015

              Country: Colombia
            Project ID: P052608                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Antioquia Upper             Project Costs (US$M):                     41.9                 41.8
                        Secondary Education
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                     20.0                 19.9
      Sector Board:       Education                  Cofinancing (US$M):                        0                    0

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                              11/27/2007
                                                               Closing Date:        12/31/2012           06/30/2014
          Sector(s):      Secondary education (81%); Sub-national government administration (11%); Vocational
                          training (5%); Tertiary education (3%)
         Theme(s):        Education for the knowledge economy (40%); Education for all (40%); Social safety nets
                          (20%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Judith Hahn Gaubatz       Judyth L. Twigg        Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Loan Agreement (page 4) and the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 5), the project
    intended to support the Department [province] of Antioquia's long-term vision to improve the employability of
    young people and increase the competitiveness of the labor force. This was to be achieved through the following
    specific project objectives:

        To increase equitable access and retention in upper -secondary education;
        To improve equitable educational achievement in upper -secondary education;
        To increase the proportion of public school secondary -education graduates who continue on to tertiary
         education.

    The project objectives were unchanged throughout the project period; however, several key outcome targets
    were changed in December 2012. Therefore, this review assesses the project according to the original and
    revised targets.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

    1. Equitable Access and Retention to Upper Secondary Education and Opportunities for Transitioning to
    Tertiary Education (Appraisal: US$ 13.5 million; Actual: US$ 14.1 million): This component was to support the
    Department's strategy to increase coverage, retention and completion at the upper secondary level and provide
    increased opportunities for transition to tertiary education for students from poor families. The sub-components
   were as follows:

   1.1. Implementation of flexible pedagogical models: This sub-component aimed to offer students from vulnerable
   populations the option to continue studies in an alternative, non-traditional learning modality. Activities included:
   identification of the most cost-effective and relevant models (from among those already being implemented in the
   Department); and selection of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) or private schools to implement the
   models according to curricular content and delivery strategies, pedagogical methods to facilitate classroom
   interactions, strategies to facilitate school-to-work transition, and strategies for evaluation of students.

   1.2. Direct subsidies to upper secondary students: This sub-component aimed to provide incentives for students
   to stay in school, given the increasing direct and opportunity costs of upper secondary schooling. Activities
   included the provision of direct subsidies (US$ 175 per year) to students in grades 10 and 11 to offset school
   costs such as tuition fees, transportation and food. Students would be identified according to a database already
   being used for an ongoing social protection program.

   1.3. Conditional scholarships to increase access to tertiary education: This sub-component aimed to provide
   incentives for upper secondary students to continue to the tertiary level. Activities included: a public awareness
   campaign about the program; creation of a database of potential beneficiaries; and provision of scholarships
   (US$ 300 per student) to cover registration fees and living expenses at tertiary institutions. Students would be
   identified as potential beneficiaries starting in grade 9 and would need to meet a number of conditions to receive
   the funds once they entered tertiary school, including graduating from grade 11, achieving a minimum score on
   the national higher education test, and enrolling in a tertiary education institution.

   1.4. Vocational and Professional Counseling and Guidance: This sub-component aimed to establish a program
   for guiding and motivating students at the upper secondary level with respect to technical, technological,
   professional and non-formal education programs, and providing employment prospects and access to tertiary
   education. Activities included: development of a strategy to better inform students about career opportunities; a
   communication campaign to mobilize the local community and tertiary institutions to value education as a factor
   for economic growth; and provision of funds to schools to implement the counseling program.

   2. Quality and Relevance of Upper Secondary Education (Appraisal: US$ 21.2 million; Actual: US$ 20.8 million):
   This component was to support the Department's strategy to improve the quality and relevance of upper
   secondary education. The sub-components were as follows:

   2.1. Strengthening upper secondary school management for education quality through school grants: This
   sub-component was to provide school grants as a means to improve school quality and help upper secondary
   students complete their education. Activities included: training in the design and implementation of a
   competency-based curriculum; integration of the curriculum into teacher training programs; and provision of
   grants to schools for activities to improve school quality (implementing the competency-based curricula, teacher
   training, programs to promote peaceful co-existence in schools). All schools in the project municipalities would
   be eligible for the grants.

   2.2. Improving the effectiveness of technical upper secondary education: This sub-component was to initiate the
   process of enhancing the effectiveness of technical education. Activities included: a feasibility study and design
   of a reform proposal that would improve relevance of technical education to labor market needs and establish a
   mechanism for accreditation of institutions and certification of students; and teacher training.

   3. Institutional Strengthening , Monitoring and Evaluation , and Project Management (Appraisal: US$ 7.2 million;
   Actual: US$ 6.8 million): This component was to support overall project coordination and supervision by the
   Secretariat of Education and the Project Coordination Team. Activities included: capacity building for the
   Secretariat of Education in school pedagogy and management, preparation of school improvement plans, and
   use of student assessment data; and an impact evaluation to assess relevance and achievements of the project.


   In December 2012, a project restructuring led to the following changes:
      The following activities were added to Component 1: Development of a system to monitor conditional
       scholarships; and design of an impact evaluation for the conditional scholarship program (in place of annual
       evaluations).
      Several performance indicators were modified, due to changes in definition, data sources, and/or
       methodologies over the course of the project period.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
   Project cost
     The actual project cost was US$ 41.8 million, out of the planned US$ 41.9 million. All components
        disbursed as planned.

   Financing
      The project was financed by a Bank loan of US$ 20.0 million, of which US$ 19.9 million disbursed.

   Borrower contribution
     The Borrower provided US$ 22.0 million in counterpart financing, out of the planned US$ 22.0 million.

   Dates
        December 2012: The project was restructured with minor modifications to activities in Component 1 and
         revisions to several key performance indicators/targets due to changes in definition, data sources and/or
         methodologies. The project closing date was also extended from December 2012 to June 2014 in order to
         allow completion of activities.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Relevance of the objectives under both the original and revised targets is rated High. The Department (province)
   of Antioquia has made significant progress in increasing coverage of primary and lower secondary education;
   however, access to and quality of upper secondary education remains low, particularly among the poorer
   populations. Gross enrollment rate in upper secondary education was 56.4% in 2006, and performance on
   national student assessments in the province was lower than the national average. Transition rates to tertiary
   education were also low, particularly for poor families who were faced with the additional barrier of lack of
   affordability. The Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (FY2012 - 2016) identifies improved opportunities in
   education, including in secondary education, as a key outcome linked to the country's broader goals of economic
   growth and poverty reduction. The objectives also remain highly relevant to the Department's long-term vision to
   improve employability of youth.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Relevance of the design under both the original and revised targets is rated Substantial. Although targets were
   revised in the project restructuring, the results chain remained the same and therefore the project design remains
   substantially relevant before and after the restructuring. The project interventions were likely to achieve the
   intended outcomes of increased access, retention, and quality of upper secondary education. A number of
   project interventions aimed to improve quality and relevance for all schools (training in school management,
   provision of school improvement grants, reform of technical education, monitoring and evaluation), while other
   interventions specifically aimed to increase demand among the poorer populations (use of flexible pedagogical
   models, subsidies and scholarships to students from poor families). Given the strong consideration for equity in
   the project objectives, the use of subsidies and scholarships was a significant element in the project design and
   relied on existing databases and disbursement mechanisms to target students from poor families. However, as
   noted in the ICR (page 11), the project design did not adequately consider the short supply of accredited tertiary
   education institutions in Antioquia.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   To increase equitable access and retention in upper secondary education
   According to the ICR (page 2), there were approximately 260,000 students enrolled in grades 10 and 11 over the
   course of the project period.

   Achievement is rated Modest for increased equitable access. There were shortfalls in achieving targets, and
   comparable increases in access at the nationwide level make project attribution unclear. It is noteworthy that in
   2009, the Department of Antioquia established free public education for grades 0-11.

   Achievement is rated Modest for increased equitable retention/completion under both original and revised targets
   , due to mixed evidence. In 2010, "stricter and more homogenous" rules for evaluating and promoting students
   were implemented, which the ICR suggests particularly affected the pass rate in grade 10 (ICR, page 5).

   Outputs
     Provision of over 23,000 subsidies to students in grades 10 and 11. This surpassed the target of 22,640.
     Annual audits using a sample of beneficiaries confirmed that there was less than 5% targeting leakage.
    Provision of school improvement grants to all 451 schools in the project municipalities. Activities included:
     training of school principals in school management; equipping of laboratories and libraries; programs to
     promote peace and social cohesion; and pedagogical training of teachers.
    Implementation of flexible curricula models (adjusted to cultural context and expectations), including in 65%
     of project schools with indigenous and Afro-Colombian populations.
    Provision of vocational and professional counseling in 71% of project schools.

Outcomes
Access
    The upper secondary gross enrollment rate in the 25 poorest municipalities increased from 46.0% in 2006 to
     52.3% in 2013. This fell short of the target of 66.0%. The net enrollment rate increased from 22.0% in 2006
     to 26.5% in 2013. This fell short of the target of 36.0%.
    The upper secondary gross enrollment rate in all 117 project municipalities increased from 56.4% in 2007 to
     68.3% in 2013. There was a comparable increase in the gross enrollment rate nationwide, from 68.9% to
     78.2% over the same time period. The net enrollment rate increased from 30.1% in 2007 to 37.3% in 2013.
     Similarly, there was a comparable increase in the net enrollment rate nationwide, from 36.0% to 41.3%. (As
     these were not formal project indicators, no targets were set.)
    The gross enrollment rate gap between the 117 total project municipalities and nationwide decreased from
     12.5 percentage points in 2007 to 9.9 percentage points in 2014. The net enrollment rate gap decreased
     from 5.9 to 4.0.

Retention/Completion
    The upper secondary completion rate in the 25 poorest municipalities decreased from 78.5% in 2006 to
     72.2% in 2012. This fell short of both the original target of 90.0% and the revised target of 85.0%.
    The upper secondary dropout rate in the 25 poorest municipalities decreased slightly from 5.8% in 2006 to
     5.4% in 2014. This fell short of both the original target of 4.3% and the revised target of 3.5%.
    The upper secondary retention rate in the 117 project municipalities decreased from 81.4% in 2007 to 72.5%
     in 2013. The ICR (page 13) suggests that the decrease was likely due to the introduction of stricter
     evaluation and promotion rules in 2010.
    The upper secondary graduation rate in all 117 project municipalities increased from 25.4% in 2007 to 30.8%
     in 2013.


To improve equitable educational achievement in upper secondary education
Achievement is rated Modest due to only modest improvements in test performance.

Outputs
  Implementation of competency-based curriculum in 86.4% of project schools. This surpassed the target of
    80%.
  Training of school principals and teachers (four per school) in school management. 100% of schools in
    project areas participated in the training.
  Training of teachers and school principals in pedagogical practices. 65% of schools in project areas
    participated in the training.
  Provision of school improvement grants to all 451 schools in the project municipalities. Activities included:
    training of school principals in school management; equipping of laboratories and libraries; programs to
    promote peace and social cohesion; and pedagogical training of teachers.
  Development of a reform proposal to improve technical training in upper secondary education. The proposal
    was not formally adopted by the government, although several policy actions proposed were implemented,
    including renovation of 9 schools with technical programs, signing of agreements to ensure a certain amount
    of technical training in addition to academic education, and provision of technical training for adults or
    out-of-school youth.

Outcomes
  The language test scores in the 117 project municipalities increased slightly from 45.8 in 2009 to 46.2 in
    2013. The math test scores decreased from 45.07 in 2009 to 43.1 in 2013. Scores at the nationwide level
    showed similar trends, with language scores increasing from 47.0 to 47.2, and math scores decreasing from
    45.3 to 45.0. However, according to the ICR (page vii), the test scores are not comparable across time
    because the content of the tests changes annually.
  The language test score gap between the 117 project municipalities and nationwide decreased slightly from
    1.18 in 2009 to 1.06 in 2013. The math test score gap increased from 0.24 to 1.9.
  The proportion of schools in the 117 project municipalities that rated "medium" or above in performance on
    SABER tests (standardized college admissions exams) increased from 43.3% in 2009 to 54.1% in 2013.
        The proportion of schools in the 25 poorest municipalities that rated "medium" or above in performance on
         SABER tests increased from 26.0% in 2009 to 35.7% in 2013.


    To increase the proportion of public school secondary education graduates who continue on to tertiary
    education
    Achievement is rated Substantial under both original and revised targets, due to evidence of increased transition
    rates, falling only slightly short of the revised target.

    Outputs
      Provision of conditional scholarships to 3,000 students in 2014, and 2,728 students in 2013. For the former,
        this represented 15.5% of the students who completed grade 11 in the project areas.
      Provision of vocational and professional counseling in 71% of the 451 project schools.

    Outcomes
      The transition rate from secondary to tertiary education in the project areas increased from 13.0% in 2006 to
        19.0% in 2013, according to the original definition (which calculated students enrolling in higher education
        institutions in Antioquia only). This achieved the original target of 18.0%. According to the revised definition
        (which calculated students enrolling in higher education institutions anywhere in the country, in the year
        immediately after completing grade 11), the transition rate increased from 23.0% in 2006 to 29.0% in 2010.
        This fell only slightly short of the target of 31.0%.

5. Efficiency:

    The Project Appraisal Document (Annex 9) provided an extensive economic analysis of the project, based on the
    assumption that increased levels and improved quality of schooling would lead to increased lifetime earnings for
    students. The analysis estimated that an increase in secondary education by one year would increase labor
    income by 10 percent, and that an increase in tertiary education by one year would increase labor income by 15
    percent. It also estimated that an increase in "education quality" would also lead to a 10 percent increase in
    wages. If enrollment targets were achieved by the project, the project was expected to generate an overall 10.8
    percent rate of return (PAD, page 88). In addition, there were some elements of the project design that would
    further contribute to efficient use of project resources. These elements included the targeting of poor families
    using the existing database and implementation of flexible pedagogical models in more rural areas, which would
    be more cost effective given the higher costs of providing standard education services in rural areas.

    The ICR (Annex 3) provides an updated estimate of project benefits, using actual enrollment targets achieved,
    and adds further benefits derived from increased tax revenues (generated from increased incomes) and positive
    health externalities. Increased levels of education were to be achieved through project interventions of
    implementation of flexible pedagogical models, subsidies to upper-secondary students, and grants for tertiary
    education. Outcomes were only partially achieved for the first two interventions, and mostly achieved for the
    third. Therefore, benefits from increased levels of education were only partially realized. Improved quality of
    education was to be achieved through project interventions of improved content of curriculum, teacher training,
    and school improvement grants. Actual improvements in quality, as reflected by performance on national tests,
    was modest, and therefore benefits from improved quality of education were only partially realized.

    The overall rate of return is calculated in the ICR (Annex 3) at 11.9 percent; however, the actual project cost was
    US$ 41.8 million out of the planned US$ 41.9 million, while expected benefits were only partially realized. In
    addition, the project closed two years after the original project closing date. Therefore, efficiency in the use of
    project resources is considered Modest.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       Yes                                     10.8%                                    100%

    ICR estimate                    Yes                                     11.9%                                    100%
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
   Outcome under original indicators /targets: Moderately Unsatisfactory
   The relevance of the project objectives is rated High, and the relevance of the project design is rated Substantial.
   Achievement of the objective to increase equitable access and retention in upper secondary education is rated
   Modest for increased access due to significant shortfalls in achieving targets, and Modest for increased retention
   under the original targets due to mixed evidence of improvements. Achievement of the objective to improve
   equitable educational achievement is rated Modest the due to limited improvements in educational performance.
   Achievement of the objective to increase the proportion of upper-secondary students who continue to tertiary
   education is rated Substantial under the original targets. Efficiency is rated Modest as benefits were only partially
   realized and the project closed two years after the original project closing date.

   Outcome under revised indicators /targets: Moderately Unsatisfactory
   Ratings are the same as above, including for achievement of the objectives to increase retention in upper
   secondary education and to increase the proportion of upper-secondary students who continue to tertiary
   education, both under revised targets.

   According to OPCS/IEG harmonized guidelines, the overall outcome rating of a restructured project is
   determined by weighting the proportion of the grant that disbursed before and after the project restructuring. As
   the overall outcome rating in this case is the same before and after restructuring, the final outcome rating is also
   Moderately Unsatisfactory .

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The Department of Antioquia continues to be committed to continuing some interventions supported by the
   project, including the conditional scholarships program, the vocational and professional counseling program,
   school improvement grants, and school-based monitoring of results. However, increases in upper secondary
   school enrollment may not be sustained at the same levels, as the direct subsidies to upper secondary students
   will no longer be available.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project design drew upon a series of analytic studies, including an economic analysis of the project,
   design of a student cash transfer program, profile of upper secondary schools in Antioquia, design of a
   monitoring and evaluation system, proposal for the use of information technology, and design of a
   competency-based curriculum. The design also built on the experience of a prior Basic Education project
   (P006891, 1997-2006) that had included strengthening of local management capacity. The risk assessment
   was comprehensive and included appropriate mitigation measures. However, the M&E design had several
   significant shortcomings in the choice and definition of indicators (see Section 10).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank team responded promptly to implementation challenges, including addressing inadequate
   monitoring of school grants and subsidies, and recommending that all NGOs and private providers be
   screened for possible affiliation with illegal groups (money laundering). It also maintained active engagement
   with the government, particularly through political transitions, which helped to sustain government
   commitment to the project objectives. However, shortcomings in M&E were not adequately addressed until
   late into the project period. Despite the project restructuring in which some improvements to the results
   framework were made, the effectiveness of the M&E system to capture project impact and inform project
   implementation decisions is unclear. The ICR (page 21) also notes that "the Bank could have proposed the
   restructuring much earlier."
  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government was overall supportive of the project objectives, despite several disruptions during the
   project period. During the course of the presidential election, a national law (Ley de Garantia) restricted the
   use of public budget during election time, and therefore all project procurement was suspended from January
   2011 to September 2011. After the election took place in January 2012, a new government took office and
   replaced key project management staff (in fact, there were no staff in place from January 2012 to July 2012
   when new nominations for project staff positions were taking place). However, despite these interruptions,
   the pace of disbursements resumed and the new government reaffirmed its commitment to the project
   objectives. Counterpart funds were provided in a timely manner.


  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   Project management responsibilities were integrated into the regular administrative structure of the
   Secretariat of Education (SEDUCA). The ICR (page 5) notes that this arrangement facilitated
   implementation, ensured better compliance with Bank rules, and increased sustainability. SEDUCA was well
   staffed by qualified professionals and overall effective in implementing all project activities as planned. There
   were no major problems reported in fiduciary management, although there were some initial challenges in
   capacity that were subsequently resolved. However, the ICR (page 22) notes the lack of timeliness in
   providing M&E data, which contributed to overall shortcomings in M&E for the project.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   Arrangements for monitoring project progress involved both the project coordination team and all participating
   schools. However, there were significant shortcomings in the results framework, including lack of clarity in
   definitions of indicators, methodologies for calculating indicators, impracticality of collecting data. For example,
   as reported in the ICR (page 7), it was difficult to measure on an annual basis the transition rate from secondary
   to tertiary education because individual students could not be tracked through their identification numbers (ID
   numbers used at the tertiary level are different from the numbers used at the secondary level). Also, gross and
   net enrollment rates relied on projections from a population census conducted in 2005, and these projections
   were not adjusted for high internal migration or other effects of violence that affected Antioquia during the project
   period. Lastly, data were not available to classify and track students by level of poverty, and SABER test scores
   were not fully comparable from one year to another.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The 2012 project restructuring aimed to address some of the shortcomings identified above by clarifying
   indicators and targets. Project municipalities and participating schools were responsible for providing data
   through school score cards. Evaluative activities were conducted, including a classroom observation study and
   an evaluation of the impact of student subsidies on SABER test results.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR (page 8) notes two issues identified during the Mid-Term Review that were subsequently addressed: the
   devolution of information from SEDUCA to the schools was considered to be insufficient to inform technical
   decisions at the classroom level; and the information system needed to be improved to provide more reliable
   data.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as an Environmental Category "C" project due to only minor civil works. However,
   environmental guidelines were still incorporated into contractor documents, such as provisions for basic health
   and safety for workers, management of dust and noise levels, and disposal of construction waste.

   The project triggered the safeguard policy on Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10) due to the presence of indigenous
   and Afro-Colombian populations in Antioquia. An Indigenous Peoples Plan was prepared, as well as an
   Afro-Colombian Peoples Planning Framework. The project addressed cultural identity and ethnic issues in the
   school curriculum, and the ICR (page 9) reports that about 65% of the project schools that had indigenous and/or
   Afro-Colombian populations implemented the curriculum adapted to these groups.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial management: At project appraisal, the implementing agency was considered to have sufficient
   financial management capacity, but fund management at the school level was identified as a significant risk. The
   ICR (page 9) reports that grants to the schools and direct subsidies to students were not adequately monitored
   during the initial project period. Audit reports prepared by the government in 2008 and 2009 were also deemed
   unacceptable (at which point a private firm was hired to conduct the audits). During the remainder of the project
   period, external auditors qualified their opinions on the project financial statements; however, the ICR (page 9)
   reports that based on the Bank's review of audit reports, the issues were satisfactorily resolved, "except for one
   aspect that did not have a material impact on project financial information."

   Procurement: A procurement capacity assessment was carried out during project appraisal, and the
   implementing agency was considered to have sufficient capacity due to experience with the prior Basic Education
   projects. The following issues arose during the project period: the number of qualified staff assigned to
   procurement was insufficient; there were issues with the distribution of duties between the procurement specialist
   and the project coordinator; and the procurement files system has shortcomings. The ICR (page 9) reports that
   these issues were resolved, and that there were "generally positive" results from an ex-post procurement review
   in May 2013.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                  Disagreement/Comments
                   Outcome: Moderately                Moderately
                            Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
        Risk to Development Moderate                  Moderate
                   Outcome:
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Lessons drawn from the ICR (pages 22-23), adapted by IEG:

         An effective and useful results framework requires consistency and clarity in definitions of indicators and
          targets. In the case of this project, lack of clarity in data sources, definitions and methodologies
          diminished the usefulness of data that was being routinely collected by the implementing agencies.
         Longer-term interventions to improve school quality may not be reflected in improved academic
          performance over a project period of 4-6 years. In the case of this project, the main quality interventions
          were improved school management and reformed curricula; however, these were likely not experienced at
          the classroom level until late into the project period.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is consistent with guidelines, including a clear focus on results. The quality of the analysis is
    satisfactory, linking project outputs to outcomes. The ICR helpfully draws from additional sources of data to
    demonstrate achievements, given the shortcomings in the formal results framework.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
