O1FFICIAL
the Worio Bank                                  1818 H Steet N.W.          (202) 477-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRLCTION ANDI  OPMENT  Witin, D.C. 20433      Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           U.S.A.                     Cable Address: INDEVAS
December, 21 2012
Mr. Sergio Fajardo V.
Goernor of the Department of Antioquia
Go:ernaci6n de Antiocuia
Calle 42 B No. 52-106
Pis: 12, Edificio La Alpujarra
Me:llin, Colombia
Re:    DEPARTAMEN TO DE ANTIOQUIA: Upper Secondary Education Project
(Loan No. 7492-CO)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Fajardo,
Please refer to the Loan Agreement for the above-captioned Project between the
Departamento de Antioquia (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank), dated March 14, 2008 (the Loan Agreement). Capitalized terms used in
this letter (Amendment Letter) and not defined herein have the meaning ascribed to them in the
Loan Agreement.
Pursuant to the letter dat0d October 15, 2012 wherein a request is made to extend the
Loan's Closing Date and amend the Loan Agreement, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank
agrees with your requ.st and, ba. ed on recent discussions between the Bank and the Borrower,
proposes to amend the Loan Agrelmert as follows:
1. Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrowe- shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions."
2. Part 1(c)(ii) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
"(ii)  design of a mor itoring system and an impact evaluation for the Borrower's
Conditional Scholarship Program; and"
3. Section I.A of Schedule 7 to t'ie Loan Agreement is hereby amended to delete subsection
1 in its entirety (as a resu t, remaining subsections are renumbered).
4. Section I.A.3i'a) (renumbered through this Amendment Letter as Section I.A.2 (a)) of
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"(a)   maintain, at all times during Project implementation, an inter-disciplinary team,
headed by SEDICA's Unidad de Calidad, with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank."


﻿5. Section I.B of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced to read
in its entirety as follows:
"B.    Education Grants.
The Borrower, through SEDUCA, shall maintain at all times adequate
arrangements to manage and administer the Education Grants, all in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance to the procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual."
6. The table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby replaced to
read in its entirety as set forth in the Annex to this Amendment Letter.
7. Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
"2.    The Closing Date is June 30, 2014"
8. The Appendix to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to delete the following
definitions: "Cooperation Agreement" and "Supporting Agency" (as a result existing
definitions are renumbered).
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating this
Amendment Letter in the spaces provided below. All other provisions of the Loan Agreement
except as amended through this Amendment Letter shall remain in full force and effect. This
Amendment Letter shall be executed in two (2) counterparts each of which shall be an original.
The provisions set forth in this Amendment Letter shall become effective as of the date of
the countersignature upon receipt by the Bank of: (a) one fully executed original of this
Amendment Letter; and (b) evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Cooperation Agreement
signed between the Supporting Agency and the Borrower, has been terminated. Upon compliance
with the above mentioned conditions, the Bank shall send a notice of effectiveness to the
Borrower.
-2-


﻿Please also not, that the aipro-ed Restructuring Paper dated December 21, 2012 shall be
dis( osed on the Bank's external website.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRLCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Glori a. Grandolini
Director
Colombia and Mexico
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
DEPARTA       NT   DE ANTIOQURA
9j~By:_                     _    _    _
Autho ze Representalive
Na- ne: 5EQL o   -&~C-QJ                   N  \
Title: 6oQ~~                   ~i~        A
Date:  7-S      ~      ~               2z71
Cc:    Ms. M6nica Almonacid
Subdirectora de Financiamiento con Organismos Multilaterales y Gobiernos
Ministerio de Hacienda.-) Credito Pzblico
Carrera 8a. No. 6-64.
Bogota, Colombia
Dra. Natalia Bargans Ualleiteros
Subdirectora de Cridito
Departamenio Nacional de Planeacidn
Calle 26 NO 13-19
Bogotd, Colombia
-3-


﻿ANNEX
Amount of the Loan       Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated                 to be financed
Category               (expressed in USD)           (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works and                 6,800,000                     100%
consultants' services under
Parts 1(a), 1(c)(ii), 2(b), 2(c)
and 3 of the Project; and
operating costs under Part 3 of
the Project
(2) School Grants                   10,500,000           100% of the goods (procured
by the Eligible Schools and/or
SEDUCA), works and
services under a School
Subproject
(3) Education Grants                 2,700,000              100% of the amounts
transferred to Beneficiaries
TOTAL AMOUNT                        20,000,000
-4-


