Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 1 6266-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
May 12, 1997
Indonesia Policy and Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
(As of September 1996)
US$ I          = Rp 2,341
Rp I billion   = US$ 0.427 million
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I metric ton                       =    1,000 kilograms (kg)
I liter (1)                             0.0063 barrels (bbl)
I kilometer (km)                   =   0.6215 mile (mi)
I kilovolt (kV)                    =    1,000 volts (V)
I megavolt ampere (MVA)            =    1,000 kilo-volt amperes (kVA)
I megawatt (MW)                         1,000 kilowatts (kW)
I gigawatt hour (GWh)                   I million kilowatt hours (kWh)
I terrawatt hour (TWh)                  I 1 billion kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAKOREN        -  National Energy Board
BAPPENAS       -  National Development Planning Agency
BPPT           -  Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology
CO2            -  Carbon Dioxide
DGEED          -  Directorate-General of Electricity and Energy Development
DRE            -  Decentralized Rural Electrification
EA             -  Environmental Assessment
FCCC           -  The Framework Convention on Climate Change
GEF            -  Global Environmental Facility
GBHN           -  Garis-Garis Besar Haulan Negara (Outlines of State Policy)
GOI            -  Government of Indonesia
IERR           -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
LRMC           -  Long Run Marginal Cost
MME            -   Ministry of Mines and Energy
MOC            -  Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprises Development
PB                 Participating Bank
PERTAMINA   -  National Oil and Gas Company
PLN            -   State Electricity Corporation
PIP            -  Project Implementation Plan
PSG            -  Project Support Group
PV             -  Photovoltaic
RE             -  Rural Electrification
REPELITA       -  Five-Year Development Plan
RESP           -  Renewable Energy Small Power
TA             -  Technical Assistance
Vice President: Mr. Jean-Michel Severino
Director:          Ms. Marianne Haug
Division Chief:    Mr. Peter R. Scherer
Staff Member:      Mr. Arun P. Sanghvi



i
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
LOAN/GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                          The Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agency               Developers of small renewable energy projects selling electricity to PLN
Beneficiaries                     Not applicable
Poverty                           Not applicable
Loan Amount                       US$66.4 million equivalent
Terms                             Single currency (US Dollar) fixed rate for a term of 15 years, including
three years of grace.
Commitment Fee                    0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Grant Amount                      GEF Trust Fund Grant of SDR3.0 million (US$4.0 million equivalent)
Terms                             Grant
Financing Plan                    See para 4.22
Economic Rate of Return           50% or better
Map                               IBRD25506R
Project ID Number                 ID-PA-42882
I      GEF and IBRD are financing mutually dependent activities and therefore this document is intended to meet both
GEF and IBRD processing requirements. A GEF project document based on the SAR has been prepared to meet GEF
Council and Public Information needs.






ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
Energy Sector Overview ...............................................................1
Sector Institutions ...............................................................2
Electricity Subsector ..............................................................3
Sector Issues and Strategy ...............................................................3
Climate Change ...............................................................4
2   RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
Renewable Energy and Sustainable Development .............................................................5
Role for Small Scale Renewable Power in Decentralized Power Generationt                                           .................      5
Government's Strategy ...............................................................7
Barriers to Development of Small Renewable Power Projects ....................                               .....................       8
Renewable Energy Without Subsidies ............................                           ..................................            11
Past Bank Experience and Lessons Learned ..............................................................                                 11
3    THE PROJECT
Project Concept ..............................................................                                                          13
Project Objectives ..............................................................                                                       13
Measuring Project Perfornance ..............................................................                                            14
Project Description ..............................................................                                                      14
Project Cost ..............................................................                                                            16
Financing Plan ..............................................................                                                           17
Lending and Funds Allocation Arrangements ..............................................................                                17
Subproject Eligibility and Review ..............................................................                                       18
Onlending Terms ..............................................................                                                          18
Procurement ..............................................................                                                              19
Disbursement ..............................................................                                                            21
Implementation ..............................................................                                                          22
Project Management and Monitoring ..............................................................                                       23
Environment ..............................................................                                                             24
Land Acquisition and Resettlement ..............................................................                                       24
The report is based on an appraisal mission undertaken in June 1996 and a post-appraisal mission in
November 1996, and comprising Messrs. Arun P. Sanghvi (Task Manager), Subodh Mathur
(consultant), Anil Cabraal (ASTAE), Yaacov Ziv (ASTEN), and Pramod Agrawal (ASTHR). Peer
reviewers were Messrs./Mmes. Magdalena Manzo (SA2EI), Khalid Siraj (FSD), and Ernesto Terrado
(IENPD). The GEF external technical reviewer was Mr. Gerry Braun, (SOLAREX). Mr. Jean-Michel
Severino, Vice President (EAP), Mrs. Marianne Haug, Director (EA3DR) and Mr. Peter R. Scherer,
Division Chief (EA3IP) have endorsed the project.



4    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Rationale for World Bank Involvement .............................                          .................................          25
Eligibility for GEF  Support ..............................................................                                            26
Alternatives to Project ..............................................................                                                 26
Fiscal Impact Analysis ..............................................................                                                  26
Project Benefits ..............................................................                                                        26
Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis ...........................                       ...................................           28
Post-project Sustainability and Participation ..............................................................                           29
5   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements with the Borrower ..............................................................                                            30
Condition of Effectiveness ..............................................................                                              31
Actions to be taken before Withdrawal of Loan and Grant Proceeds .............                                  ..................     31
Recommendation ..............................................................                                                          32
ANNEXES
1.1    MME Organizational Chart
2.1    PLN's Marginal Costs
2.2    Power Subsector-List of IDA Credits and Bank Loans
2.3    PLN's Published Power Purchase Tariff
3.1         Performance Indicators
3.2         Pipeline of Participants
3.3         Bank Indonesia's Bank Rating System
3.4    Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits
3.5    Information in Subborrower's Business Plan
3.6         Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3.7         Project Implementation Schedule
3.8    Procurement Plan
3.9         Supervision Activities and Schedule
3.10   Environmental Compliance - Report for Biomass Projects
3.11   Guidelines For Environmental Review of Mini-Hydro Projects
3.12   Draft Policy for Land Acquisition and Resettlement for the Small-Scale Power
Generation Projects
3.13   Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) Outline of Contents
4.1    Internal Economic Rate of Return
5.1         Selected Documents in Project File
MAP: IBRD 25506R



1. THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
Energy Sector Overview
1.1   Indonesia is richly endowed with diverse and large energy resources including oil, natural gas,
coal, hydropower and geothermal. The oil and gas sectors continue to play a critical role in the
Indonesian economy, together accounting for over 85 percent of commercial net energy consumption and
for about 20 percent of the country's export receipts.
1.2   Indonesia's basic goals and policies for the future development of the energy sector are described
in the Outlines of State Policy (GBHN), promulgated by the People's Consultative Assembly (MPR) in
March 1993 to guide the formulation of the Sixth Medium-Term (five-year 1994/95-1998/99)
Development Plan (REPELITA VI); and the Second Stage Long-Term (twenty-five year) Development
Strategy (PJPT-II). The GBHN highlights the importance for Indonesia's sustained economic and social
development of meeting its rapidly growing energy needs efficiently -- including through conservation
and diversification of primary energy resources and their more efficient utilization -- and of minimizing
the adverse environmental and social impacts of energy use.
1.3   In the power sub-sector, the GBHN recognizes that an adequate, reliable and reasonably priced
electricity supply is essential for the country's continuing development, emphasizing its essential role in
serving the needs of the productive sectors and in contributing directly to improving the living standards
of the people in all regions of the country. Rural electrification (RE) is a key and integral part of the
Government's rural development strategy and the long-term goal is to electrify all villages and enable the
basic services provided by the modern energy form, electricity.
1.4   The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has also relied on the following policies in support of its
objectives for the energy sector:
(a) diversification: The Government's energy policy has long emphasized diversifying domestic
energy consumption away from oil towards alternative and more economic and indigenous
energy resources that either have a non-exportable surplus, such as coal and natural gas, or
are renewable and non-tradable (hydro, geothermal). Significant progress has been made in
the power sector, which is a major user of petroleum fuels, and plans call for a further
reduction of oil's share in power generation from about 15 percent in 1995/96, to about 5
percent by the end of this decade. Commitments have been recently concluded for numerous
and large geothermal power plants.
(b) energy pricing: On the demand side, the Government's policy has been to maintain average
petroleum product prices at or above international parity (efficiency pricing), while cross-
subsidizing the price of kerosene in order to ensure its affordability, with an implicit tax on
gasoline. Likewise with electricity, while periodic adjustments have generally maintained the
average retail price close to the long-run marginal cost of supply in Java, electricity prices
have been maintained below economic cost for small residential and industrial users who
account for about 40 percent of sales. The Government has also maintained a uniform price
structure for electricity and petroleum products in all parts of the country.
(c) private sector participation: The private sector operates significant amounts of captive
power capacity, and is expected to play an increasingly important role in the supply of oil,



2
gas and electricity. In oil and gas, Pertamina forms joint ventures with private Production
Sharing Contractors (PSCs) for exploration and production.
Private sector participation is also being welcomed in the emerging gas transmission grid. In
power, 55% (11,600 MW) of the additional grid capacity planned for Indonesia between
1994/95 and 2003/04 (excluding captive power) is projected to come from independent
power producers (IPPs). To date, over 2,500 MW of IPP capacity is under construction and
expected to come on line by 1999-2000. In aggregate as of November 1996, Power Purchase
Agreements (PPAs) have been signed with IPPs for about 7,500 MW of capacity, of which
some 2,200 MW will be generated by geothermal, 800 MW by gas and about 4,500 MW by
coal. The Government is also considering private participation in the recently created
generating company subsidiaries of PLN, the national power utility.
The recently introduced small power purchase agreement (a tariff and offer to purchase on
the basis of a simple standard contract) is designed to encourage development of small scale
private generation plants
(d) regionally balanced development: The GOI maintains a uniform price for electricity and
petroleum products in all parts of the country; and has plans to extend the supply of
electricity in a balanced manner to all parts of the country. This policy entails the
subsidization of higher cost energy supply to outside Java and to the rural population.
(e) environmental protection: The GOI's environmental policies include support of greenhouse
gas reduction, and development of renewable energy resources. The Basic Environment
Law of 1982 provides the overall framework. The Government has established and utilizes
uniform procedures and guidelines for the preparation, and approval of environmental
impact analysis (AMDAL), for issuance of environmental clearances, as well as periodic
reporting requirements on environmental management and monitoring during project
implementation.
Sector Institutions
1.5    The principal agency responsible for implementing Government policies in the energy sector is
the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME); which coordinates all activities in the energy sector and
supervises the state enterprises in the sector: PERTAMINA (oil, gas and geothermal), P.T. Bukit Asam
(coal), PGN (gas distribution) and PLN (electricity). Other ministries and agencies are also involved in
the sector, for example, the Ministry of Public Works is responsible for hydropower resource surveys
and the operation of multipurpose hydro plants, the National Atomic Energy commission is responsible
for nuclear development, and the Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprises Development (MOC)
is responsible for enhancing the role of cooperatives in rural electrification. An inter-ministerial National
Energy Board (BAKOREN) coordinates energy policies and development with those of other sectors.
BAKOREN is supported by a Technical Committee (PTE) consisting of senior officials in different
departments, chaired by the Director General of Electricity and Energy Development (DGEED). The
electricity subsector is regulated by the MME through the DGEED. The organization chart of MME is
shown in Annex 1.1. Environmental policy development is led by the State Coordinating Minister for
Environment and implementation is led by the national (BAPEDAL) and newly enabled regional
(BAPEDALDA) Environmental Impact Management Agencies.



3
Electricity Subsector
1.6    The Electricity Act (Law No. 15 of 1985) defines the legal framework for electricity sector.
Under this Act, PLN, the State Electricity Corporation that was established by Government Regulation
No. 18/1972, has both the right and obligation to supply power in Indonesia. The provisions of the
Electricity Act are amplified in Government Regulation No. 17/1990 for PLN, the State Electricity
Corporation; and No. 10/1989 for others. The Electricity Act permits establishment of private power
producers, distributors and licensees. Presidential Decree No. 37/1992 specifically authorizes private
sector participation under BOO schemes, and permits cooperatives and other legal entities to generate,
transmit, and distribute power for public use.
1.7    The power sector has expanded rapidly during the 1980s and 1990s. Electricity sales of PLN
grew at an average annual rate in excess of 14% between 1981/82 and 1995/96. During the same period,
the number of customers grew nearly six-fold, from 3.2 million to about 21.5 million. In order to meet
this growth, PLN's installed capacity increased nearly five-fold from about 3,000 MW in 1981/82 to over
15,000 MW in 1995. Over the same period, PLN's implementation capacity has grown significantly,
whereby it is now connecting close to 2 million new customers a year, a pace unmatched by a single
utility, and PLN now carries out an investment program of about US$3.5 billion annually.
Sector Issues and Strategy
1.8    The task ahead Notwithstanding the impressive achievements highlighted above, only 40% of
rural households have electricity--well below reported levels in Thailand (about 75%) and Malaysia
(about 98%). Electricity consumption per capita is only around 260 kWh per year, less than in many
countries with lower GDP per capita. Many businesses depend on captive power for part or all of their
supply. Frequent outages and voltage and frequency fluctuations impose high costs for industrial and
commercial customers, while in some areas network bottlenecks delay and/or increase the costs of new
industrial ventures.1 To cope with this situation, businesses have to date installed some 10,500 MW of
captive power generators of which some 8,000 MW is in the form of relatively small, inefficient and
high cost diesel plants. Finally, the wide disparities in coverage -- urban-rural as well as across Indonesia
-- pose a direct challenge to the Government's objective of achieving a balanced spatial distribution of
development and to reduce the inequality in quality of life.
1.9    Challenges Organizing the power sector --industry structure, regulation, planning, balancing the
roles of PLN and the private sector --to bring about marked improvements in service delivery standards
and bring them in line with regional best practice, while maintaining competitive prices, and quickly and
efficiently expanding the access of electricity to households throughout the country, poses a formidable
challenge. Prospects for attracting the large sums of money required year-in-and-out to just one sector in
Indonesia -- US$ 5-6 billion per year -- must also be viewed against the backdrop that the Government is
hard pressed to maintain past levels of financial contributions to PLN, because of increasing demands on
its resources from priority social sectors. Further, the task of financing expansion of rural electrification
(RE) coverage and more generally service provision outside Java is daunting to say the least; due to the
geographic dispersion and low energy demand of much of the rural population, the unit costs of
1 Indonesia: Economic Consequences of Power Sector Inadequacy in the Manufacturing Sector, Yellow Cover
Report No. 15623-IND, EA3IE, World Bank, June, 1996



4
conventional means of electrification by grid extension and diesel generation are extremely high
especially outside Java.
1.10   Strategy The Government, with Bank assistance, has formulated and initiated a major reform of
the sector. The four pillars of the ongoing reform are: (i) move the sector from monopoly and
government domination to a multi-operator mixed ownership environment in order to access additional
management and finance capacity; (ii) decentralize, corporatize and divest PLN, to enhance operating
performance and client service quality, and to prepare the company to directly access capital markets;
(iii) reform regulatory and sectoral functions to promote PLN's commercial autonomy and private sector
entry and thereby promote high quality service at least cost; and (iv) rationalize tariff levels to strengthen
sector finance, while providing incentives to PLN and the private sector to deliver performance more in
line with best practices.
Climate Change
1.11   Indonesia has ratified the FCCC on August 23, 1994, so that it is eligible to receive GEF funds
under this convention. In order to help fulfill its FCCC national commitments, Indonesia has initiated
two greenhouse gas mitigation strategy studies. The Asia Least-Cost Greenhouse Abatement Strategy
(ALGAS) project, financed by UNDP/GEF, examines Indonesia's GHG emission reduction options in an
Asia regional context. Indonesia is also a participant in the second round of study activities financed
under the U.S. Country Studies Program. Although both studies are still under preparation, the relevance
of renewable energy as a greenhouse emissions abatement option for Indonesia is clear. The country is
characterized by a large, growing and dispersed rural population, a substantial fraction of whom are not
electrified but who presently consume fossil fuel-based energy for lighting and radio and TV services.
Further, much of the electricity supply outside Java is generated by diesel fuel. As low or zero
greenhouse gas emitting technologies, renewables based power generation can meet these basic energy
demands while substituting for higher polluting kerosene, and diesel fuel.



5
2. RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
Renewable Energy for Sustainable Development
2.1        Indonesia needs to deploy aggressively new and sustainable sources of energy for power
generation to complement conventional supply options, in order to maintain its economic momentum and
dynamism while advancing further the impressive gains already achieved in improving the well being of its
population. For almost two decades, Indonesia's electricity generation capacity has on average doubled
every five years. Yet, today, nearly 60 percent of the population -- about 115 million people -- does not have
access to electricity, and usage per capita is low and even below those for countries with lower income per
capita.
2.2        Continued and sole reliance on conventional energy sources and delivery modalities will
impose a massive financing burden on the Government and PLN's customers. Additionally, burning of
fossil fuels would also contribute to the "greenhouse effect", the primary contributor to global warming.
Increasing the use natural gas -- as Indonesia has been doing -- is a good idea since gas is a cleaner fuel than
coal or oil. However, Indonesia's non-exportable natural gas supplies, are ultimately limited. And burning
natural gas, while reducing local pollution will still contribute to global warming.
2.3        Another promising solution for Indonesia is increased use of renewable energy sources ---
"renewables" such as hydropower, biomass, geothermal, solar, and wind -- which are abundant and eco-
friendly. Until recently, many considered renewables to be expensive and impractical without the provision
of subsidies. However, electricity generated from renewable energy has been proven to be reliable in
commercial operations world wide and at a cost that in many cases is competitive with the conventional
alternatives. Even solar and wind power are now increasingly competitive on account of impressive gains
made in the last two decades in lowering of capital costs and in raising the conversion efficiency and
performance. Continued improvements in costs and performance will come as the overall market grows
and from technological change. Yet, relative to the vast economic potential of renewable energy, the share
of renewables in Indonesia's electricity generation is small at present. Development of small scale
renewable power generation in particular can help improve the lot of Indonesia's rural population, many of
whom will otherwise have to wait 30+ years to get electricity.
Role for Small Scale Renewable Power
2.4        Indonesia's efforts to provide electricity to all its citizens poses a technical and cost challenge
on account of its geography. Nearly 70 percent of Indonesia's population, of an estimated total of 195
million, lives in rural areas, comprising about 31 million households. The last census recorded 62,000 rural
villages, of which 39,000 villages outside Java and Bali are dispersed across an archipelago comprising of
over 13,600 islands and geographically spread over 5,100 kilometers from east to west and nearly 1,800
kilometers from north to south. Not only are the rural villages often scattered wide and far, so are the rural
households within a village.
2.5        Because of the dispersed geography, the cost of supplying power by conventional means is
very high, especially in islands other than Java-Bali. Outside Java-Bali, PLN's operations are sustained in
the following three modes: (i) Seven small regional grids operate at low transmission voltages (150 kV or



6
lower) and, therefore, experience relatively high network losses. Further, these grids are supplied power by
smaller scale power plants that are unable to exploit the economies of scale associated with large
conventional power plants; (ii) Dozens of mini--grids are supplied by one or more interconnected diesel
power plants in the I to 12 MW unit size range; (iii) There are a large number of isolated small diesel plant
based operations -- in the 20 to 200 kW size range -- of which there are nearly 1,000 such isolated high cost
systems in operations, many supplying power only for a few hours in the evening and night time. In
aggregate, PLN owns and operates about 3,400 diesel plants scattered throughout Indonesia -- over 2,000
MW of diesel generating capacity -- as a primary means to supply power for rural electrification. Diesel is
also the marginal fuel -- the fuel that is used to generate power to meet the last increments of demand -- in
most of the seven regional grids outside Java-Bali.1
2.6         Renewable energy, a superior alternative for small power generation Whereas on Java-
Bali PLN can maintain a large interconnected, efficient and modem power system that is profitable, its
outside Java operations of necessity require numerous and small scale and isolated grids. In particular, the
conventional power plants outside Java do not offer the benefit of scale economies that their larger
counterparts on Java can provide. Renewable energy power generation, on the other hand, is well suited for
small power generation and in a decentralized mode; it offers a cost effective and environmentally superior
alternative. Further, since small renewable power generation can be situated close to the demand, the
investment required for transmission lines is reduced significantly or eliminated, as are transmission losses.
Overall, increased penetration of renewable energy power generation will help reduce the tremendous
pressures on the Government budget for financing the subsidy associated with government-mandated rural
electrification (RE) operations of PLN especially outside Java.
2.7          The renewable energy resources for electricity power generation that have potential for
development in Indonesia on a significant scale in the near-to mid-term are mini-hydro, biomass
cogeneration , and mini-geothermal, with typical sizes of 1-15 MW. An ESMAP study in Indonesia
estimates the market potential of generation from biomass residues to be about 1,800 MW, of which about
500 MW is in Sumatera, 800 MW in Kalimantan and 380 MW in Java. Whereas the supply potential from
such residues is far larger, these estimates also reflect the demand in proximity to the resource. The bulk of
this potential is in: (i) sugar mills, where bagasse is used extensively in sugar processing, for steam and in-
plant electricity production to meet the mill's process energy needs; (ii) in palm oil mills that use empty
fruit bunches, fiber and shells for steam and power generation; and (iii) in the rubber, forestry and timber
industry using waste products. In each case the amount of biomass residues far exceed the capacity of the
mills to utilize them, so that disposal can be expensive, while posing added environmental problems. The
utilization of Indonesia's substantial biomass residue resource potential in power generation will also help
further the Government's goal of fostering energy conservation. The geothermal technical potential in
Indonesia is estimated to be 16,000 MW, with about half in Java-Bali; the market potential, taking into
account proximity to demand centers is substantially lower but still large. Moreover, mini-geothermal plants
(under 10 MW) can be particularly viable for supplying small loads.
1 The cost of expanding coverage to a large fraction of rural households, using the conventional means of grid
extensions and scattered diesel generators, is high, especially outside Java (Annex 2.1). The marginal costs of
generation alone -- PLN's "avoided generation costs' -- for supply at medium voltage (MV), are estimated to be
about US ¢ 9.3/kWh for the seven regional grids outside Java, as high as US ¢ 20.0/kWh in case of some of the
diesel-based isolated units and mini-grids.
2 Indonesia: Prospects for Biomass Power Generation, Report No. 167/94, ESMAP, World Bank.



7
2.8         A role for the private sector An attractive feature of small renewable power projects is that
they are within the capacity of small and medium sized private sector developers, i.e., non-utility
generators, which could be a variety of entities, such as private firms, state-owned non-utility firms,
NGOs, cooperatives, or even an independent joint utility-private enterprise. Therefore, they offer an
avenue for greatly increasing the number of suppliers in the regional power markets; thereby creating
competitive market-based pressures for more efficient utilization of energy resources and capital investment
on part of all the suppliers in the power generation market. Thus, the promotion of small power generation
projects utilizing renewable energy offers the Government a clear path to increasing private sector
participation in energy markets, a matter of high priority for GOI as well as a matter of priority on the
Bank's agenda.
2.9         For some time to come, private sector interest in renewables will be more forthcoming for the
relatively larger projects within the "small" project category. For example, in the case of mini-hydro,
indications are that private developers will gravitate more towards the lucrative projects in the 5+ MW size
range as a minimum size, and which can supply power to a regional grid in contrast to being connected to
the much smaller scattered diesel grids, or displace PLN's isolated diesel operations.
2.10        The private sector's interest in projects that serve regional grids outside Java-Bali makes it
necessary for PLN to take the lead in developing the smaller -- typically 1 to 5 MW -- power plants in the
more remote locations in Eastern Indonesia; these projects would displace some of PLN's highest cost diesel
generation that impose a high subsidy burden. The proposed Eastern Indonesia Renewable Energy
Development Project, under preparation, will finance several small mini-hydro and mini-geothermal PLN
projects in remote areas of Eastern Indonesia and also provide for technical assistance to help PLN
mainstream and sustain renewable energy development.
Government's Strategy
2.11        The Government of Indonesia (GOI) accords high priority to the participation of private
operators and investors in power generation. In the case of large power projects, it has been successful in
attracting world class independent power producers (IPP), with over 7,500 MW of power purchase
agreements (PPAs) signed and over 2,500 MW of IPP capacity under construction at present. The Bank is
assisting the Government to better define the rules for entry and competition within the market and define a
process of applying these rules in a transparent manner to promote orderly and efficient development of the
large power market.
2.12        A key element of the Government's strategy for encouraging participation in small power
generation by the private sector and cooperatives is the removal of a major stumbling block to the small
power market development; the recent implementation (December 1995), in response to a covenant under
the Bank-financed and ongoing Second Rural Electrification Project (Loan 3845-IND), of the published
Small Power Purchase Tariff and a standard simplified power purchase contract governing the sales of
electricity produced by small projects to PLN3. In this regard, Indonesia is a pioneer in promoting efficient
development of private sector led small power through an improved policy and regulatory environment, and
3 Ministry of Mines and Energy decree No. 1895.K/437/M.PE/1995, issued December 8, 1995, published in
"Business News", issue January 12, 1996.



8
during implementation. Whereas the small power purchase tariff applies to all small power projects selling
to PLN, the Government recognizes that development of the small private power market will be
predominantly led by small renewable power projects (para 2.8).
2.13        GOI also recognizes the need to substantially increase the rate and scale of penetration of cost
effective renewables as a means of ensuring high and environmentally sustainable rates of economic
growth. Increased penetration of power generation from renewables will have a significant and positive
impact on the environment by reducing local pollutants such as S02 as well as pollutants of global concern
such as emissions of green house gases (GHG). To the extent that this development displaces kerosene
consumption and diesel generation, it reduces the negative environmental impacts of transport, waste
disposal and burning of these fossil fuels.
2.14        Indonesia's experience to date with renewables power generation for decentralized rural
electrification has been mainly a demonstration effort. The role of small renewables as a cost effective
complement to power supply being fed to PLN's grids has been non-existent in the private sector and is
minuscule in the case of PLN. Numerous studies, by agencies such as DGEED, PLN, and BPPT have
demonstrated the significant potential of small renewable power. The time has now come for these projects
to be developed within the framework of a least-cost rural electrification strategy, rather than as a series of
individual projects undertaken on an ad hoc basis.
2.15        A first step in formulating a cohesive strategy and development plan for small renewables has
been taken with the completion of the Rural Electrification (RE) Master Plan. Financed under the Bank's
first Rural Electrification Project (Loan 31 80-IND), the RE Master Plan analyzed conventional options for
grid extensions and use of scattered diesel generation to support isolated mini-grid operations to electrify
the remaining unelectrified villages. Building upon this effort, under TA financed by the ongoing Second
Rural Electrification Project (Loan 3845-IND), a Renewable Energy Development Plan is now under
preparation. Specifically, readily available information on renewable energy resources -- mostly mini-
hydro, biomass and mini-geothermal -- is being mapped onto the geographical inforrnation system (GIS)
that was developed as part of the RE Master Plan effort, with a view to identifying spatial matches between
cost effective renewable power supply potential and electricity demand. A primary objective of this TA is to
prepare initial development plans for grid connected and decentralized small renewable energy generation
especially to displace high cost decentralized diesel generation in rural areas off-Java.
Barriers to the Development of Small Renewable Power Projects
2.16        Key barriers to the development of small renewable power projects by the private sector are:
(i) lack of accessibility to and high information costs about the resource as well as the technology; (i) large
pre-investment costs, relative to conventional energy projects; (iii) lack of medium-to-long-term debt
financing that is essential to achieve financial viability of such projects that are capital intensive; and (iv) a
playing field that is not level, especially the lack of fair and transparent rules for the pricing of power sales
to PLN's grid, lack of specific regulations to control and oversee market access and entry, and weak pricing
and contract enforcement mechanisms.



9
2.17         The proposed project design, in conjunction with the Bank's ongoing policy dialogue with the
Government of Indonesia and PLN, directly addresses the barriers to private sector participation that are
identified above:
Lack/high cost of resource information Technical information about the potential
sites -- such as streamflow records, geoscientific data on steam conditions, wind
speeds data, solar insolation -- are very expensive to collect and take years of effort,
and are generally the responsibility of one or more Government ministries. Without
such essential information being readily available to the private sector, they would not
be able to conduct even a pre-feasibility assessment for a potential project. A technical
assistance component of the proposed project has been designed to help GOI and PLN
prepare and make readily available resource information to the private sector. In case
of the projects pre-identified for the proposed project pipeline (para 3.6), Bank
managed grant-financed consultants worked closely with the prospective sugar and
palm oil mill management and staff in helping them better understand the biomass
resource potential and technical operating issues with deploying cogeneration systems
and selling power to PLN.
*     High pre-investment costs The pre-investment costs of conducting a pre-feasibility
study, detailed feasibility analysis and engineering design are generally a much higher
percentage of the installed cost of a small renewable power project than in the case of
larger renewables or fossil fuel generation plants. The Project provides a cost sharing
grant to the developers of the sub-projects to be financed under the proposed project, to
lower these high pre-investment costs. For some of the sub-projects identified for the
proposed project pipeline, Bank managed grant financed consultants have already
helped to carry out the pre-feasibility studies and feasibility analysis.
*     Lack of term debt financing Typically, the ratio of initial capital (equipment and civil
works) costs to operating (labor, fuel and other inputs) costs is higher for small
4
renewable projects compared to equivalent conventional thermal power plants . Hence,
the initial investment to be financed by debt or equity is far greater for small renewable
projects than for comparable conventional projects. As a result, small renewable
projects typically require debt financing to be amortized from 8 to 15 years in order for
the debt amortization payments to match the developer's revenue stream. While
successive financial sector reforms have removed most policy constraints on term
lending, due to institutional weakness, at present, medium-to-long-term debt financing
is available only to a select group of companies in Indonesia. In particular, small
entrepreneurs and non-traditional projects are crowded out by larger and well
established entrepreneurs and traditional projects.
*     Enabling regulatory environment Experience strongly indicates that for the small
power market to develop and flourish, an effective regulatory environment is needed to
4 For example, diesel-based projects have relatively low initial capital costs with high fuel costs, while biomass-
based cogeneration projects have relatively high initial capital costs with virtually no fuel costs since the biomass to
be used as fuel is a waste by-product that is readily available.



10
level the playing field against the monopoly power of the dominant utility to whom the
power would be sold. Small power producers invariably are unable or unwilling to
marshall the time and expense otherwise necessary to take on the utility in negotiating
5
such deals . Fortunately, with respect to this last barrier, Indonesia can be counted as a
pioneer in having significantly lowered it.
2.18         Published small power purchase tariff Over the preceding few years, the GOI has
undertaken significant energy pricing and market reforms. Introduction of the published small power
purchase tariff and establishing PLN's obligation to buy power from other suppliers, on a "no negotiations
basis", at a purchase price tied to PLN's "avoided cost" in various regional grids, and under a simple and
standardized long term contract, represents a big step forward in promoting efficient development of the
small power market for renewables. First, it opens up access to the power generation market to smaller
project developers. Second, this approach ensures that only cost effective renewables are developed. Third,
it facilitates the long-termn commercial debt financing of such projects which depends critically on the terms
of the long-term power purchase contract.
2.19        Over the period August through October 1996, PLN solicited applications from qualified
small power project developers by advertising the tariff and its major provisions in major regional
newspapers. PLN's published small power -- defined as under 30 MW in Java and under 15 MW outside
Java -- purchase tariff for renewable power is set at PLN's avoided cost in the respective regions (Annex
2.3). The initial responses of the private sector to this initiative -- referred to by GOI as the "PSKSK"
regulation-- are encouraging particularly in Sumatera, Java and Sulawesi.
2.20        The PSKSK initiative represents a major step in the removal of one of the single largest
stumbling blocks to small renewables power development by the private sector. However, the prospects for
this market -- size, scope, number of transactions, rate of growth, and efficiency -- and its sustainability over
the longer termn will depend upon PLN's ability and sustained commitment to implement this tariff driven by
the spirit of achieving this objective. Some revisions and refinements to the power purchase contract may be
required based upon an evaluation of the market experience, especially early-on. For this purpose PLN is
implementing a monitoring system that will also facilitate Bank supervision of market developments.
Successful implementation of the PSKSK regulation also requires close coordination, training and getting
field management staff in PLN's regional units "on board". An existing covenant (Loan 3845-IND) requires
that PLN shall by June 30, 1998 (or such other date as may be agreed by the Bank), revise and publish the
small power purchase tariff including the form of the small power purchase contract in accordance with the
methodology agreed to by the Bank This covenant was reaffirmed with GOI during negotiations for the
proposed project.
5      Negotiations in the cases of small power contracts typically: (a) result in a protracted process; (b)
inherently impose a higher and generally crushing burden on the small developers because of the asymmetry in
information and expertise available to the two parties; and (c) introduce the risk of manipulation by both sides.
Negotiated prices lower than PLN's avoided cost result in sub-optimal levels of investment in renewable energy,
whereas prices higher than avoided cost would result in increasing the subsidy burden.



11
Renewable Energy Without Subsidies
2.21        Notably absent from the list of the key barriers impeding renewable energy development
(para 2.17) is "high cost of renewable energy technologies", i.e., in selected niche areas, on a life-cycle
basis, the economic cost of electricity produced by renewable energy resources is not more than the cost
of the electricity from conventional power plants. As a result, in Indonesia and globally, there exists
today a large market potential for small renewable power, such as mini-hydro, biomass cogeneration,
mini-geothermal, and wind power, that can be sustained without any financial incentives, such as capital
6
subsidies, interest rate subsidies, or preferred tax treatment . While the development of these resources is
potentially financially attractive to private sector developers, the four barriers identified above (para
2.17) come in the way of such development. In this situation, what is needed is the Government's
commitment and presence in: (i) improving the enabling environment -- informational, regulatory,
financial; and (ii) for an initial period, providing assistance to reduce the pre-investment barriers. This
approach -- not providing financial incentives or subsidies for investment but providing limited
assistance for reducing and overcoming pre-investment barriers -- underlies the design of the proposed
RESPP project in which there are no subsidies provided for the capital investment. Specifically, the GEF
grant is utilized solely for capacity building, for future market development, lowering barriers related to
resource information preparation and dissemination, and lowering high pre-investment costs.
Past Bank Experience and Lessons Learned
2.22        Overview. The Bank has been active in Indonesia's power sector for twenty-five years during
which time the Government has borrowed more than US$ 4.7 billion in Bank loans and IDA credits to
undertake 25 power projects (Annex 2.2). Despite some problems with implementation, past Bank-financed
PLN projects have helped strengthen PLN's capabilities in almost every aspect of its operations. Over the
last twenty-five years, the Bank has also engaged the Government and PLN in a dialogue on sector issues.
In the 1970s and 1980s, this focused mainly on sector planning, tariff and organizational autonomy issues.
In recent years, beginning with the Sumatera-Kalimantan Project in 1994, the Bank and Government have
shifted their emphasis towards sector structure, private sector participation and regulation. The Bank is now
supporting specific interventions where private sector participation is not readily forthcoming: transmission
and distribution management and investment, sector expansion outside Java, renewable energy and demand
side management, and rural electrification.
2.23        Taken altogether, these projects have assisted in the expansion of generation, transmission
and distribution facilities and rural electrification and institutional development of PLN. The technical
assistance provided by the Bank has also strengthened PLN's technical and management capabilities in
engineering, project management capabilities, distribution and rural electrification planning and
management, and corporate and financial planning. As a result of these efforts, PLN's implementation
capacity and operational efficiency have increased significantly. The negative lessons largely concern
implementation. Most projects have suffered delays due to extended procurement cycles. Technical
6      In the past many governments have and today some still continue to offer attractive financial incentives --
such as accelerated depreciation, subsidized interest rates, payments for capacity purchased that exceed the utility's
avoided cost -- to private entrepreneurs and utilities to develop renewable energy resources. Frequently, such
subsidies have distorted efficient resource allocation and undermined the sustainability of small renewable power.
lead to over-investrnent in capital intensive technologies without necessarily maximizing energy (kWh), delivered to
the grid.



12
assistance for institutional capacity building has in some cases fallen short of expectations due to limited
absorptive capacity and inadequate supervision and ownership. However, all power projects completed to
date have been rated satisfactory by OED.
2.24       Experience with renewable energy Given the Bank's limited involvement in renewable
energy projects, there are no relevant Bank reports on past projects. Experience is limited to the ongoing
IBRD/GEF-financed India Renewable Resources Development Project (Loan 3544-lN/Grant 2449-1N) and
the Indonesia Second Rural Electrification Project. Relevant lessons learned from the India project are: (i)
timely project implementation is facilitated by pipeline development, i.e., pre-identification and preparation
of sub-projects; and (ii) private sector interest in Bank financing fades if the procedures they are required to
use for procurement are not in line with normal commercial business practices and the process and
disbursement of funds is not streamlined and fast.
2.25       Experience with financial intermediation Some of the lessons learnt from  financial
intermediation loans in Indonesia (Indonesia Financial Sector Development Ln. 3526-IN) and other
countries are also relevant. This experience indicates that poor subloan recovery has been a problem, but
that this risk can be reduced by: (i) selecting only the strong and committed commercial banks to
participate in the Project; (ii) requiring that the private borrowers put in a significant amount of equity;
(iii) ensuring quality at entry; and (iv) close portfolio monitoring.  These principles have been
incorporated in the Project design.



13
3. THE PROJECT
Project Concept
3.1    The Renewable Energy Small Power (RESP) Project aims to catalyze the creation of private
sector markets for small-scale renewable energy power projects and to reduce the costs of PLN's rural
electrification (RE) operations outside Java-Bali. The RESP Project is a pioneering initiative, whose
initial size is sufficiently large to establish a baseline penetration of such renewables while also
providing a demonstration effect that can support a critical mass of commercially sustainable projects,
developed by non-utility generators, which could be a variety of entities, such as private firms, state-
owned non-utility firms, NGOs, cooperatives, or even an independent joint utility-private enterprise. In
keeping with the project design concept, the project focus is on a few selected renewable resources. The
technologies utilized are well proven, and the implementation and delivery modalities would be
sustainable on a commercial basis. The Project would support the relatively larger projects within the
category of small renewable projects, with lower risk and in less remote areas, that have high market
potential, good renewable resource potential and are in proximity to demand centers/regional PLN grids
that have high "avoided cost" of supply; in general, private sector investment is not expected in Eastern
Indonesia at this stage (para 2.9). The Project has a strong institutional focus as well.
Project Objectives
3.2    The principal national objectives of the RESP Project are to: (i) facilitate private sectorI led
development of small renewable power projects selling electricity to a PLN grid on a commercially
sustainable basis, within the framework of a least cost rural electrification strategy; (ii) promote
environmentally sound energy resource development in Indonesia and reduce the energy sector's
dependence on fossil fuels; and (iii) strengthen Indonesia's institutional capacity to sustain renewable
energy development.
3.3    The global environmental objective of the RESP Project is to mitigate emissions of CO2 in
Indonesia. The development of renewable energy sources for power generation would mitigate diesel
consumption in power generation, and correspondingly mitigate CO2 emissions.
As clarified in para 3. 1, the term private sector in this context includes entities such as cooperatives and joint
utility-private enterprise.



14
Measuring Project Performance
3.4    Performance Indicators. The key performance indicators for monitoring achievement of the
Project objectives outlined above are: (i) the number and generation capacity (MW) of private renewable
energy small power projects financed, which are measures of the extent of the private sector led
development; (ii) subloan recovery rate, which is a measure of the extent to which the Project is
successful in establishing a sustainable financing mechanism; (iii) availability of basic resource
information about potential projects, which is an indication of the potential for future private sector led
projects; and (iv) diesel displaced, foreign exchange saved and CO2 emissions reduced, which are inter-
linked measures of the reduction of the dependence on fossil fuels as well as of the global environmental
objective. Baseline levels and future target levels for each are shown in of Annex 3.1. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on the indicators and the target levels.
Project Description
3.5    The Project consists of renewable energy based small power generation projects that are
organized into the (i) Investment component, and (ii) Technical Assistance.
3.6    Under the investment component, the projects will be owned and operated by private developers,
who would sell their electricity to PLN under the published Small Power Purchase Tariff (PSKSK), and
standardized power purchase contract (paras 2.18 and 2.19). While projects from all renewable resources
are eligible to participate, a pipeline of 15-20 prospective biomass and mini-hydro power projects -- with
about 60 percent of the installed generation capacity outside Java-Bali -- have been identified with the
assistance of consultants supported by Bank-managed trust funds (Annex 3.2). Overall, most of the
projects are in the 5-10 MW range (with an aggregate capacity of about 75 MW). For three of these
projects ("Group 1"), the bulk of the pre-investment activities will have been completed by loan
effectiveness, and they are expected to reach financial closure shortly after loan effectiveness; for about
ten projects ("Group 2"), preliminary screening indicates that they have good prospects, but significant
pre-investment activities will remain to be conducted after loan effectiveness. The remaining Group 2
projects would be identified in the first 18 months of the proposed Project.
3.7    Substantial resources have and continue to be devoted by the project developers as well as the
Bank to complete preparations for these fifteen projects. Therefore, it is essential for the Government to
ensure that for these pre-identified projects, PLN reserves the corresponding amounts of firm capacity
purchases in the respective regions under its "obligation to purchase" in those regions, as provided under
the PSKSK tariff (para 2.19). During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government shall
cause PLN to commit to purchase capacity under its PSKSK initiative for the projects to be supported
under the proposed Project.
3.8    The key barriers to the development of renewable energy power by the private sector (paras
2.16-2.17) are being addressed by a combination of (i) GEF grants, which would finance part
(specifically, the incremental costs) of the information, transaction and pre-investment costs of the
private sector developers (paras 3.11, 3.13, 3.17), and (ii) IBRD credit.
3.9    The private sector developers will finance their investments with a combination of equity and
credit from commercial banks of their choosing -- the "Participating Banks (PBs)" -- for up to 15 years.
Four PBs have been identified to date, of which two -- Bank Niaga and Bank Bali -- are private
commercial banks; a third bank -- Bank Negara Indonesia (BNI) -- has been partially divested by the



15
Government, and the fourth -- Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia (Bank Exim) -- is State-owned. The PBs
view these projects as an entry into an attractive niche market. None of these PBs would be appraised by
the Bank, given that these commercial banks have been classified as financially sound (sehat) by BI
The loans from the PBs to the developers would be at the prevailing interest rates for similar transactions,
with the PBs taking responsibility for appraising developer requests for credit, and for bearing the
commercial risk on the credit extended to a developer (para 3.22). The PBs, in turn, would re-finance 70
percent of the credit extended to the developers from the IBRD credit made available to them at market
rates, under onlending arrangements through the Government of Indonesia (GOI). During negotiations,
agreement was reached that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, GOI will not provide to the private
developers, whether directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, any loan, subsidy, grant, credit enhancement
or financing of any kind other than the GEF grants and the credit extended by the PBs under the RESP
Project.
3.10   Technical Assistance The TA components of the proposed project are individually identified by
category and value in Table 3.1. Draft TORs for all components have been prepared in consultation with
DGEED, and are contained in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) report (para 3.39).
Table 3.1: Allocation of Technical Assistance
Value 1/
Category                     Component                              US$ Millions
I. Engineering/                 o Project Support Group                        1.5
Implementation Support       o Pre-investment Services                      1.5
2  Institutional Development    o Resource Information                         1.0
Total                                                                       4.0
1/ Includes contingencies but excludes duties and PPN.
3.11   Out of a total value of US$4.0 million equivalent, 75 percent of TA is directed at project
implementation support services. A Project Support Group (PSG), reporting to the Director-General
(DG), DGEED, will be established to assist the private project developers with, inter alia,: (i)
environmental review of their projects to ensure compliance with World Bank requirements (para 3.42);
(ii) implementation support in the form of limited technical advice to the project developers in the
Project pipeline to facilitate the timely and proper implementation of the projects; and (iii) pre-
investment activities, including administering GEF grants of $100,000 per project for 15 projects to
potential project developers to assist them with their pre-investment activities, such as pre-feasibility and
feasibility studies . The developers would commit to undertake the approved activities and the grants
would be paid only after they had been undertaken, i.e., on a reimbursement basis; and (iv) provide
regular progress reports for monitoring this component.
2   Annex 3.3 outlines Bl's bank rating system for monitoring and classifying the financial health and overall
soundness of state as well as private commercial banks. Any new PBs would also not be appraised by the
Bank. All PBs would be required to maintain a sehat rating by Bl.
While the GEF grant of $100,000 is a significant part of the pre-investment cost, it is negligible compared to
the investment costs, which will typically be in the range of $ 5-10 million per project.



16
3.12   The remainder 25 percent of technical assistance is for institutional development, specifically
renewable energy resource information collection and dissemination to be undertaken by DGEED. This
technical assistance will provide for consultants who will assist the Directorate of Electric Power
Planning in the preparation of a strategy for renewable energy resource information collection and
dissemination, and in implementing this strategy. The work will involve gathering geothermal, hydro,
biomass resource data from available sources potential projects; evaluating their quality and adequacy;
developing information systems to facilitate disseminating this information; and in providing the
information to interested developers. During negotiations, agreement was reached that GOI would: (a)
mobilize by March 1, 1998, consultants acceptable to the Bank to undertake the gathering of available
information on renewable resources and evaluate their quality and adequacy, and to develop and
imnplement a simple information system to facilitate the dissemination of this information, in accordance
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (b) by March 1, 2000, for about 35-50 projects, with an
emphasis on projects outside Java, upgrade resource information to a level that is sufficient to enable
the private sector undertake a pre-feasibility study that provides a reliable basis for making an
investment decision and make this information accessible to the private sector on an equal access basis,
and (c) prepare, by May 31, 2000, a plan, acceptable to the Bank, for an ongoing program of resource
information collection and dissemination that would continue after the completion of this TA.
Project Cost
3.13   The estimated project costs, inclusive of duties and taxes and physical and price contingencies is
about US$141.0 million equivalent.  The total financing requirement, including interest during
construction is about US$141.0 million equivalent; with US$78.5 million equivalent in foreign exchange
and US$62.5 million equivalent in local costs. Cost estimates are in September 1996 prices and utilizing
an exchange rate of Rp2,341/US$. Price contingencies for foreign costs are assumed to be 2.4 percent per
year during the project implementation period, and for local costs at 8.7 percent per year. A summary of the
project cost estimates is presented in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Project Cost Summary
(US$ million)           % Foreign
Local     Foreign     Total     Exchange
1. Investments                                 33.7       71.5       105.2       68%
2. Technical Assistance                         2.4        2.6         5.0       52%
Base Cost                                        36.1        74.1       110.2       68%
Duties and Taxes                              23.2        0.0        23.2        0%
Price Contingencies                            3.2        4.4         7.6       58%
Total Project Cost                               62.5        78.5       141.0       56%
Total Financing Required                         62.5        78.5       141.0       56%
Costs are based on an exchange rate of Rp. 2,341 per US$



17
Financing Plan
3.14   The financing plan is shown in Table 3.3. A proposed Bank loan of about US$ 66.4 million
equivalent, combined with a GEF grant of SDR3.0 million (US$ 4.0 million equivalent) would finance
about 50 percent of the project cost. The GEF grant would finance the "incremental costs" of the RESP
Project (para 3.16)
Table 3.3 Financing Plan
Local    Foreign    Total
(Millions of US$)
IBRD                            0.0      66.4     66.4
GEF                             1.4       2.6      4.0
Private                        32.3       9.5     41.8
Participating Banks            28.6       0.0     28.6
GOI                             0.2       0.0      0.2
Total Financing Required          62.5     78.5    141.0
Inclusive of contingencies, duties and taxes and interest during construction.
3.15   Investment in the project will be financed by a combination of IBRD ($66.4 million) and private
funds ($69.3 million). The pre-investment, project support (including strategic planning), and resource
assessment costs will be financed by a combination of GEF ($4 million) and private ($1 million) funds.
3.16   The GEF grant would finance all the incremental costs of the proposed project. There is an
incremental cost of $4.0 million associated with the TA component of the project. At present, there is no
private sector development of small renewable energy power projects in Indonesia. In the absence of the
RESP project, it is expected that private developers will begin to initiate small scale power projects,
based on relatively standard technologies such as diesel, under the standardized small power purchase
tariff; the costs associated with these activities form the baseline costs. The incremental cost ($4
million) is the difference between the costs associated with the RESP Project and the baseline costs.
Lending and Funds Allocation Arrangements
3.17   The proposed Bank loan and GEF grant would be made to the Republic of Indonesia. The Bank
loan would be provided to GOI, denominated as a single currency (US Dollar) fixed rate loan, with a
commitment fee of 0.75 percent per annum or such other percentage as established by the Bank on the
undisbursed amount under the Loan Agreement from time to time. The term would be 15 years,
including three years grace period.
3.18   The Government would channel and allocate the loan proceeds to the PBs as follows:
(i)    For the state-owned PBs,  loan funds would be lent by MOF through a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement (SLA), while for the private PBs, loan funds would go in the first instance from the
Government to BI, through a separate SLA between MOF and BI. BI would then re-lend the loan funds



18
to the private PBs through the respective Onlending Loan Agreements (OLAs) between BI and the
respective PBs. During negotiations, agreement was reached that signing of: (a) the SLA between MOF
and BI; (b) at least two SLA/OLAs between MOF/BI and the PBs, on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, would be conditions of loan effectiveness. Further, signing of an SLA/OLA, acceptable to the
Bank, between MOF/BI and a PB would be a condition of disbursement of the IBRD loan for each PB.
(ii)    During negotiations, agreement was reached that in the event of a PB losing its "sehat" status.
(a) BI would require the concerned PB to take remedial measures within a prescribed period of time to
regain a '"ehat" status; (b) BI would notify the Government, and the Government would notify the Bank
that a situation has arisen that may require the reallocation of the uncommitted portion of funds
previously allocated to the PB; and (c) in the event the PB fails to regain "sehat" status after the
prescribed period, funds which have been allocated to the concerned PB but have not been committed,
would on request of GOI, be reallocated to those PBs which continue to be classified as "sehat" and
which have requests for subloans in excess of their allocations.
(iii)   The loan allocation to each PB will be part of its SLA/OLA, and will be based upon the PB's
estimates of its credit requirements for this Project. During negotiations, agreement was reached that.
(a) MOF/BI would amend, at the request of a PB and with the Bank's approval, the amount of such PB's
loan allocation once every calendar year: and (b) each PB would pay to the Government, at the same
rate as the Government would pay to the Bank, commitment fee on the portion of its loan allocation that
has not been disbursed to the PB.
(iv)   Loan reallocations During negotiations, agreement was reached that in order to provide
flexibility and to respond to unforeseen fluctuations in demand for credit, the Bank would approve, on
the request of GOI, reallocation offunds from PBs that would not be able to utilize their allocatedfunds.
This would happen for example, in the case of PBs that have: (a) fully committed, or are likely to fully
commit, their allocation to their subborrowers; (b) used up all the loan funds available on a "first-come,
first served basis"; and (c) have requests for additional subloans from their subborrowers. Further, upon
the Bank's request, GOI would be willing to review the need for such reallocations. From the date of a
reallocation, the PBs would be obligated to pay commitment fee on the undisbursed amount of their
respective new allocations.
Subproject Eligibility and Review
3.19   In the proposed Project, the eligibility criteria for being considered for participation is that the
subproject should qualify: (i) for sale of electricity to PLN under the PSKSK regulation, and (ii) as a
renewable energy project under the terms of this tariff. In order to participate in the proposed Project, the
developers of qualifying subprojects would prepare and submit credit applications to the PBs. After
assessing the credit application, when a PB is satisfied that it is willing to extend credit to a qualifying
developer, the PB would submit to the Bank for review the particular subproject, along with a copy of
the subborrower's project plan. Annex 3.5 provides details of the information required in a subborrower's
project plan.
3.20   During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Bank, after reviewing the PB's submission,
will approve a particular subproject to participate in the Project, with the maximum amount of the IBRD
loan to be extended to the particular subproject to be determined by the PB. The approval would be sent
by the Bank to the PB, MOF and DGEED.



19
3.21   GEF grant authorization for pre-investment costs  During negotiations, agreement was
reached that DGEED, based on the PSG 's analvsis and recommendations, will recommend to the Bank
for review and clearance the projects, from those already pre-identified and any others subsequently
identified (para 3.6), that are suitable for pre-investment support (para 3.11). The Bank would send the
approval to MOF/BI and DGEED.
Onlending Terms
3.22   GOI to PBs Loan proceeds would be on-lent to the PBs in rupiahs for a term up to 15 years
including three years of grace. The onlending rate for the Bank loan to the PBs would reflect the market
rate for and the PBs' cost of domestic term funds in Indonesia, this rate will be a variable interest rate
equal to BI's domestic money market certificate (Sertifikate Bank Indonesia -- SBI). This rate would be
adjusted on January I and July I of each year, based on the average of the three-month SBI maturity
quotations, during the preceding six months. Further, on January I of each year, commencing January 1,
1998, the use of the three-month SBI rate as the onlending rate from GOI to the PBs would be reviewed
with the objective of either ensuring that the three-month SBI rate appropriately reflects the cost of
domestic term funds or agreeing on an alternative that does reflect this cost. In addition to interest
payments, the PBs will pay to GOI a commitment fee of 0.75 percent per annum or at such other
percentage rate as the Government shall pay to the Bank on the undisbursed amount of the Subsidiary
Loan from time to time.
3.23   While the Government would nominally bear the foreign exchange risk, in practice most of the
risk would be borne by the PBs; the Government would be compensated for the cost of bearing this risk
as the cost of funds from GOI to PBs includes an implicit premium reflecting market expectations
4
regarding exchange rate changes
3.24   PBs to subborrowers (small power producers) During negotiations, agreement was reached
that proceeds of the Bank loan, along with financing out of the PBs own resources, would be on-lent to
the subborrowers by the PBs, at market interest rates. The terms for sub-loans would be up to 15 years.
The terms and conditions of subloans would be freely negotiated between the PBs and subborrowers.
3.25   GEF Grant During negotiations, agreement was reached that no fees for administering the
GEF grant would be charged by GOI.
Procurement
3.26   Procurement arrangements for the proposed project are summarized in Table 3.4. Procurement
arrangements will follow the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,
published in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996. For the investment component
where the project would provide funds to financial intermediaries for on-lending to the private sector,
procurement for equipment and services under $5 million equivalent would be undertaken by the project
developer in accordance with established commercial practices in Indonesia, and which are acceptable to
the Bank. Although the PBs do not have formal procurement requirements, they do require clients to justify
their procurement decisions, and often requiring them to provide comparative price quotations. Under the
In Indonesia deposit rates are market-determined and capital flows are generally unrestricted.



20
proposed project, the PBs would require sub-borrowers to demonstrate that the procedures they use to
procure goods and services are appropriate. The PBs would ensure that the goods and services are procured
at reasonable prices, taking account of efficiency, economy, reliability, and other relevant factors such as
terms of supplier credit, availability of spare parts, backup technical advice assistance, warranty
arrangements.
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangements (Million of US$)
Intemnational
Competition
Bidding (ICB)    Other /b  NBF /c       Total
Investments                        22.6         90.2         -         112.8
(13.2)      (53.2)                   (66.4)
Technical Assistance
- Implementation Support /a                      3.0         1.0         4.0
[3.0]                   [3.0]
- Institutional Development /a                   1.0         -           1.0
[1.0]                   [1.0]
Taxes                                             -         23.2        23.2
Total                                  22.6         94.2        24.2       141.0
(13.2)       (53.2)                  (66.4)
14.01                   [4.0]
Note: ()and [] are the amounts financed by IBRD and GEF respectively.
/a GEF grant financed
lb Goods and services to be procured by limited international bidding, established
commercial practices or shopping procedures.
/c Not Bank-financed.
3.27    The biomass cogeneration projects will involve procurement of (i) equipment such as boilers or
turbo-generators, (ii) engineering and installation services, or alternately (iii) turnkey services for the
design, supply and erection of the boilers and turbo-generators. It is estimated that about two-thirds the
bid packages for equipment or services will be under $5 million. The prospective mini-hydro projects
typically consist of two procurement packages: (i) supply and installation of electro-mechanical
equipment and electrical works and (ii) civil works. For these sub-projects, each procurement package is
expected to be under $5 million.
3.28    It is proposed to make available the following options: (i) for individual procurement packages
to be re-financed by Bank credit, that are valued under US$ 5 million, established commercial practices
acceptable to the Bank can be used, and (ii) for contracts valued in excess of US$ 5 million, the Bank's
procedures for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) are to be followed, and utilizing the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents in their organization, format and content.  Eligible local suppliers
competing for the supply of goods under ICB procedures would be eligible for a preference in bid
evaluation of 15 percent or the import duty, whichever is lower. For contracts estimated in excess of
US$ 10 million equivalent, a specific procurement notice would be required. The Bank would conduct
ex-post reviews to ensure that procurement is economic and efficient. For this purpose between 5 and 10
percent of the contracts would be sampled.
3.29    Technical assistance Consultants to be financed under the technical assistance component of the
proposed project -- Table 3.1 -- would be selected in accordance with the Guidelines for the Selection



21
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and use the Bank's standard
contract for Consultant's Services. Specifically, the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) process
and procedures described therein would be utilized. All consulting services above US$ 100,000
equivalent provided by firms, and above US$ 50,000 equivalent to be provided by individuals would be
subject to the Bank's prior review; further, for contracts below US$ 100,000 equivalent provided by
firms, and below US$ 50,000 equivalent to be provided by individuals, there would be prior review of:
(a) the terms of reference, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to US$ 100,000 equivalent or above; and (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individuals raising the contract value to US$ 50,000 equivalent or
above. This would result in prior review of 100 percent of the TA contracts. All consulting assignments
exceeding $200,000 equivalent in contract value will have to be advertised separately to obtain
expressions of interest. This would form the basis for the short list of qualified firms invited to bid.
Disbursement
3.30   Table 3.5 shows the allocation of loan and grant proceeds to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed in each Category. For the investment component, the Bank loan would be
disbursed against 70 percent of the sub-loan amount extended from time-to-time by the PBs to the
project developers. This would cover about 75 percent of estimated foreign expenditures. For the
Technical Assistance component, disbursements would be against 100% of expenditures. Withdrawal
applications for consulting firm contracts above US$100,000 equivalent and individual consultant
contract cost above US$50,000 equivalent would be based on the Bank's full documentation
requirements; others would be on SOE procedures. Documents supporting SOE's would be retained by
the PBs, project developers and DG-Budget, and made available for review by the Bank supervision
missions.
3.31   In order to facilitate timely disbursement, two Special Accounts (SA) would be maintained by
MOF at BI, one for the IBRD loan and a second SA for the GEF grant, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. These SAs will be maintained in the name of Director General of Budget,
Ministry of Finance, using established procedures as discussed in the following. After initial deposits by
the Bank into these accounts, further replenishment would take place upon the Bank receiving
applications for withdrawals from GOI/MOF. Replenishment to the SAs will be made on a monthly
basis, or when 20 percent of an SA's balance has been used, whichever comes first.
3.32    Under the investment component, disbursements from the SA for the IBRD loan would be
triggered by the actions of the subborrowers. The PBs would disburse subloan credit to the subborrowers,
based on a demonstration of their credit requirements, backed up by the documentation required by the
PBs. The PBs would periodically submit a request for re-financing 70 percent of the subloan credit
amounts to MOF, which would issue a payment authorization to BI. In turn, BI would transfer the loan



22
funds from the SA to the PBs. MOF officials have indicated that the time from the receipt of the payment
request at MOF from a PB to the time of payment by BI would be under two weeks. During
negotiations, agreement was reached on procedures and supporting documentation to be utilized by
MOFfor disbursement of the IBRD loan and GEF grant.
3.34   GEF Grant Disbursement of the GEF grant for consultancies below the prior review thresholds
and all sub-grants would be on SOE procedures, with the DG, DGEED to authorize the disbursement
based upon the PSG verifying the documentation submitted by the project developers.
3.35   Disbursement Schedule The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 3.6.
Disbursements are expected to be relatively small initially since only a limited number of developers will
be able to achieve financial closure soon after effectiveness, and are expected to accelerate later as more
developers begin to participate in the Project (para 3.6).
Table 3.5: Allocation of Loan and Grant Proceeds
Amount of Loan and
Grant Allocated
Category                          (US$ million)        Percent of Expenditures Financed
A. IBRD Loan
Investment Component
Sub-loans                            66.4       Refinances 70%  of the sub-loans made by
participating banks.
B. GEF Grant
Technical Assistance                   4.0                         100%
Notes to table:
1. Expenditures financed are exclusive of duties and taxes.
2. Investment Component: Private developers and/or participating banks finance US$ 74 million
Implementation
3.36   A project implementation schedule depicting major milestone dates is contained in Annex 3.7.
The schedule assumes a loan effectiveness date of October 15, 1997, project completion date of April 30,
2001, and a loan closing date of October 31, 2001. A more detailed implementation schedule by
component of the proposed project is contained in the Project Implementation Plan (para 3.39). A
Procurement Plan which details individual time line for each procurement activity from advertisement to
contract signing is contained in Annex 3.8.
3.37   Individual project developers will have primary responsibility for executing their power projects,
including executing of the power purchase agreement with PLN, obtaining loans from commercial banks,
and tendering for power plant equipment and construction. The Project Support Group (PSG) will be
established at DGEED and will provide technical advise and assistance to developers on an as-needed
basis. It will also be responsible for assisting the developers to prepare the required environmental
analysis and plans.



23
3.38   Accounting and Audit The project accounts of all PBs and DGEED would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, agreement was reached that DGEED
and the PBs would submit their project audit reports to the Bank no later than six months after the end of
their respective fiscal years. Specifically, the following audit reports would be required: (i) the SOE
documentation and the SAs maintained by MOF; and (ii) the SOE documentation maintained by the PBs.
All PBs would provide to the Bank, through BI, the relevant information on disbursements and balances
and debt-service by each sub-borrower.
Project Management and Monitoring
3.39   Project Implementation Plan (PIP) The project implementation and monitoring arrangements
are detailed in a separate document that is available in the Project files. For the investment component,
the PIP addresses the following principal elements: scope and objectives, critical success factors, strategy
and implementation plan, project management structure, milestones, monitoring and reporting
requirements, implementation schedule, and disbursement schedule. This report will serve as a key
reference document for the PSG at DGEED and as well as for Bank supervision missions to monitor
implementation progress and ensure achievement of the development objectives.
3.40   Project Management For the investment component project oversight will be provided by the
Director-General (DG), DGEED who would be responsible for ensuring the development impact of this
component. In undertaking this responsibility, the DG will largely rely on the Project Support Group
(PSG) that reports to him and that will provide regular progress monitoring reports and flag issues
requiring attention, and recommend corrective action (para 3.11). The PSG will have: (i) a Manager-
Team Leader -- a seasoned, senior business development professional acceptable to the Bank -- who will
have overall responsibility for facilitating the development and financial closure of the biomass
cogeneration and mini-hydro projects in the pipeline; (ii) a biomass cogeneration technical expert,
acceptable to the Bank, with demonstrated international power project development experience,
particularly in cogeneration projects in the sugar industry; (iii) an environmental specialist, acceptable to
the Bank, who has experience with Indonesian environmental regulations, and explicitly with those
regulations relevant for the sugar industry; and (iv) other local/foreign short-term technical experts as
necessary, including a specialist able to assist potential subborowers address the land acquisition and
resettlement issues as per the Bank's requirements (paras 3.43-3.44) and guiding the project developers
in reaching compliance. During negotiations, agreement was reached that (i) PSG would be established
in accordance with TOR, membership, staffing and resources acceptable to the Bank, and (ii) DGEED
will undertake contracting in a timely manner so that the PSG can be mobilized no later than November
15, 1997.
3.41   Project monitoring The Project's performance will be monitored by the PSG in DGEED, who
will prepare and submit monthly progress reports, and by the Bank's supervision missions and there will
be a mid-term review. Apart from monitoring and evaluating the progress towards meeting the
performance indicators, since this is one of the first projects in Indonesia that may involve private
purchase of land, any such purchases will also be closely monitored. The supervision schedule is shown
in Annex 3.9. For this purpose it is essential that in the investment component the PSG has easy and
timely access to the relevant Project information directly from the participating developers. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that (i) DGEED would prepare an annual progress report; (ii)
furnish it to Bank by December 31 in each year; (iii) review it with the Bank in a timely manner; and (iv)
take the measures required to ensure the achievement of the Project's objectives.



24
Environment
3.42   During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that all sub-projects will
have to demonstrate environmental compliance of on-going operations with existing relevant national
environmental regulations. During project implementation a local environmental expert assigned to the
Project Support Group (PSG), well versed with the sugar industry and acceptable to the Bank, will
prepare an Environmental Compliance Report (ECR) for each and will guide the project developers in
reaching compliance.  The outline for the ECR is given in Annex 3.10. In the event that the
environmental mitigation measures required to achieve compliance, will need additional investments, the
Participating Bank will ensure that the developer makes the appropriate financial commitments to
implement these measures. The developer will also commit to obtaining all environmental permits
required by Indonesian law, for new boiler installations, as needed. The environmental guidelines for
mini-hydro projects are provided in Annex 3.11. Bank supervision missions will also review the
environmental compliance reports.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
3.43   All the Group I projects involve increase in the existing capacity of the sugar mills; additional
land requirements are not envisaged at this stage. The status of the Group 2 sub-projects in regard to the
need for land acquisition will only be known once the specific projects and then designs are finalized.
During negotiations, agreement was reached on a policy framework governing land acquisition and
resettlement issues associated with investment component. Government would also be required to ensure
that the PBs require the subborrowers to adhere to the agreed policy framework. The draft policy
framework is contained in Annex 3.12.
3.44   Where a sub-project results in acquisition of land which is not free of squatters, tenants, or other
disputes, or where it is acquired by invoking eminent domain, Bank's OD 4.30 will apply. The Project
Support Group (PSG), assisted by a consultant (para 3.40), will be required to prepare appropriate reports
in compliance with the agreed policy framework governing land acquisition and resettlement and submit
to the Bank together with other details for sub-project review (Annex 3.5). An outline of a detailed
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) is contained in Annex 3.13. Bank missions will also supervise the
implementation of the RAPs where necessary.



25
4. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Rationale For World Bank Involvement
4.1    Links to Country Assistance Strategy The Bank is committed to supporting renewable energy
development in Indonesia, as stated in the Indonesia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that was
presented to the Bank's Board on March 21, 1995, and the CAS Progress Report that was discussed on
June 4, 1996. The proposed project design and implementation strategy typify the defining
characteristics of the transition that is underway in the assistance strategy for Indonesia: (i) achieving
poverty reduction through increased funding for regional development, and a shift towards smaller and
regionally oriented projects targeted at reducing urban-rural disparities in the quality of life; (ii) striking
the appropriate balance between public and private roles in energy distribution; and (iii) increased
attention to the environment and sustainable management of resources.
4.2   Links to Economic and Sector Work The proposed project draws upon general economic and
sector work related to renewable energy as well as analyses undertaken specifically for this project. In
particular, the project design and strategy are consistent with the findings and recommendations in the
Bank's rural energy policy paper, the Bank's report on the challenges Indonesia faces in sustaining
development, and an ESMAP report on Indonesia's biomass potential .
4.3    Links to ongoing Bank activities in Indonesia The Bank continues to actively support
implementation of an efficient and sustainable Rural Electrification (RE) program, initiated in the RE I
Project (Loan 3180-IND) and now through the successor RE II Project (Loan 38450-IND), primarily by
financing extension of the various regional grids, and related institutional capacity building (para 2.15). The
RESP project will provide a means to continue the Bank's dialogue with the Government of Indonesia and
to influence the implementation of a sustainable and environmentally sound RE development program,
while encouraging private sector participation and the creation of commercial markets for alternative
energy, and continue the process of improving the policy and institutional environment, all matters of high
priority on the GOI's as well as the Bank's agenda.
4.4    Rationale for credit component. At present, in Indonesia, the commercial viability of lending for
renewable energy small power projects has not been established, and no long-term (10-15 years)
commercial bank financing is available for small entrepreneurs and non-traditional power project (para
2.17). Further, it is unlikely that the viability of this type of lending would be established on its own. The
commercial banks lack familiarity with these types of transactions. The published small power purchase
tariff and simple standard contract mechanism GOI has implemented (PSKSK regulation (paras 2.18 and
I   Rural Energy and Development: Improving Energy Supplies for 2 Billion People, A World Bank Best
Practice Paper, Report 15912-GLB, 1996; Indonesia: Sustaining Development, A World Bank Country Study, 1994;
Indonesia: Prospects for Biomass Power Generation, Report No. 167/94, ESMAP, World Bank.



26
2.19) is new, under which no transactions have taken place so far. Furthermore, the maturity structure of
resources mobilized by commercial banks is relatively short and as much as such banks have to undertake
term transformation, using short- and medium term resources to lend long term, which again involves a
higher degree of risk for projects already perceived to be carrying a high degree of risk. Thus, the proposed
project by providing long term resources to the banks will eliminate one element of the risk. It is expected
that once our credit is utilized by banks for sound projects they would change their risk perception of
privately owned renewable energy projects and in future they would be more willing to use their own
resources.
Eligibility for GEF Support
4.5    The RESP project is fully consistent with the: (i) the guidance from the Convention of the Parties
(COP), and (ii) GEF Operational Strategy, in particular with Operational Program 6, which has the aim of
promoting the adoption of renewable energy by removing barriers and reducing implementation costs. The
barriers targeted by this project are: (i) high pre-investment costs, (ii) lack of term debt financing, (iii)
inadequate regulatory environment, and (iv) lack/high cost of resource information (paras 2.16 -2.17).
Alternatives To RESP Project
4.6    The baseline alternative to the RESP project is the business-as-usual scenario under which: private
sector development of small renewable energy power projects would be greatly inhibited. The costs of this
baseline alternative were used, inter alia, to develop the incremental costs (para 3.16). This baseline
scenario is also used in the least-cost analysis.
Fiscal Impact Analysis
4.7    Since the investment component of the proposed project is to be executed entirely by the private
sector, there are no public expenditures for this purpose. While there is a small element of subsidy in the
Project, this is exclusively for TA, and this is being funded entirely by GEF grants. Further, the commercial
risk of the subloans to the private producers is being borne entirely by the commercial banks. Thus, the only
possibility of any adverse fiscal consequences would arise from a default by a participating bank (PB) on its
loan obligation to the GOI, which is considered unlikely since the PBs have been classified as financially
sound by BI, and assessed to be among the well-managed banks in Indonesia. Hence, the proposed Project
would not have any adverse fiscal consequences for the Government.
Project Benefits
4.8    Least-cost analysis The private developers will be selling electricity to PLN at a tariff that
reflects PLN's avoided economic costs. This establishes that the financial costs of the profit-making
private developers will be less than PLN's economic costs of power generation. By itself this result does
not establish that the private developers' economic costs are less than PLN's economic costs, given the
possibility of a divergence between the developers' financial costs and their economic costs of
production, arising from subsidies or other financial incentives. However, there are no such
subsidies/incentives being offered to the private developers to produce electricity from renewable
energy. Thus, the financial costs of the private developers are close to their economic costs. It follows
that the economic costs of the private developers are less than PLN's economic costs, i.e., the power
produced under this Project represents the least-cost option.



27
4.9    Benefits The proposed Project will provide:
*      Direct economic benefits The direct economic benefit is the electricity produced and sold
by the facilities financed by this Project.
*      Local environmental benefits A condition for private developers to participate in the
proposed Project is that their facilities meet all existing national environmental standards,
and not just those related to the power generation aspect of their business (para 3.42). Since
many of the potential participants are not yet in compliance with these standards, the
proposed Project will lead to local environmental benefit associated with coming into
compliance with the standards.
*      Global environmental benefits There are global environmental benefits from  the
reduction in CO2 emissions (about 10.0 million tons) as a result of the switch from fossil
fuels to renewable energy 2 This mitigation in emissions is the rationale for the GEF grant.
*      Regional development benefits About 60 percent of the generation capacity installed by
the private developers will be located outside Java.
4.10   Cost-benefit analysis In the cost-benefit analysis, only the direct economic benefits have been
taken into account because there are no reliable estimates of the other three types of benefits. In particular,
3
while the value of the GEF grant could provide an estimate of the global environmental benefits , as
measured by the international community's willingness-to-pay (WTP), in the proposed Project, the GEF
grant is for TA only, not for any investment. The direct economic benefits are derived from the estimates
of the consumers' WTP for the electricity. Based on this analytical framework, the internal economic rates
of return (IERR) for the biomass projects are typically above 50% (Annex 4. 1).
4.11    The financial returns to the private developers are lower than the IERR because (i) the
developers have to pay duties and taxes that are excluded from the economic analysis, and (ii) the
developers' revenue streams reflect only PLN's avoided costs, which is significantly lower than the WTP
used in the cost-benefit analysis as the measure of benefits. The developers' nominal financial rates of
return are estimated to be above 25% while market interest rates are about 18%.
2      The estimates of the emissions avoided include both the emissions avoided as a result of the units directly
installed under the RESP project ("project effect") -- about 6.3 million tons of CO2 -- as well as the acceleration of
market penetration in Indonesia ("programmatic effect") as a result of the RESP project -- about 3.7 million tons of
CO2. With a total GEF grant of $4.0 million, the unit cost of abatement is about $0.40/ton CO2, including project
and programmatic benefits, and about $0.65/ton C02, when only project benefits are considered. The primary
reason for these low abatement costs in the proposed Project is that the GEF grant is for TA only, and not for
investmnent.
3      Bank guidelines (OP 10.04, Paragraph 8 (revised September, 1994)) specifically include global
environmental benefits as a component of a project's benefits.



28
Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
4.12   Risks and steps to mitigate risks The Project faces four implementation risks that could
potentially adversely affect the objective of private sector led development of small renewable power
projects (Objective A - Annex 3.1):
*  There are risks that, for a variety of reasons, such as lack of familiarity with the
technology/resource, perceived problems in dealing with PLN, or high transaction costs.
private sector developers are either not interested in participating in the Project or that there
will be some delays in their participation. These risks have been minimized during Project
preparation by pre-identifying a large number of potential participating developers (Annex
3.2). Further, PLN will reserve adequate capacity to purchase power from the participating
developers (para 3.7). In addition, during Project implementation, the developers will be
provided GEF-funded grants of $100,000 each to cover part of their pre-investment costs,
and thus increase their interest in undertaking the pre-investment activities. Nevertheless,
some of the potential participants will either drop out or delay their participation, and this is
reflected in the performance indicator related to participation (Annex 3.1) and the
disbursement schedule. Thus, these risks are not expected to have a significant adverse affect
on the Project's outcome.
*  There is a risk that commercial banks would not be interested in providing credit to the
private sector developers. This risk has been minimized during Project preparation by pre-
identifying four strong commercial banks that have expressed a strong interest in
participating in this Project (para 3.9) -- which they view as an attractive niche market -- and
have already begun initial discussion with the potential participating developers. Thus, this
risk is not expected to have a significant adverse affect on the Project's outcome.
*  There is a risk that the subloan recovery by the participating banks will be poor, which
would adversely affect the establishment of a sustainable system of financing renewable
energy small private power projects. This risk has been minimized during project preparation
by requiring that the participating banks be classified as sehat (financially sound) by BI, and
indeed the four participating banks identified to date are among the select group of the
strongest commercial banks in Indonesia with good credit discipline. During project
implementation, these strong banks will utilize their standard appraisal criteria in making
subloans, thus assuring quality at entry. A key factor -- specific to the context of the
proposed Project -- that would greatly help mitigate the risk of subloan recovery is that the
subprojects are characterized by a single source of revenue that is based on the off-take
arrangements spelled out in the power purchase contract between a subborrower and PLN.
This would allow the PB to attach the revenue stream early on in the event of a default by a
subborrower; there are ample precedents for such attachments in the much more complex
and large scale financings associated with the larger private power plants being developed
worldwide by independent power producers (IPPs). Finally, the actual subloan recovery rates
will be closely monitored (Annex 3.1).
*  There are potential technical, implementation and operational risks associated with the
renewable energy technologies utilized by the private sector. Steps have been taken during
Project preparation to minimize these risks by limiting technology choices to those that have
already been proven under actual operating experience in Indonesia or other developing



29
countries. Further, during Project implementation, the PSG will be available to provide
technical and operational assistance on an as-needed basis. Thus, these risks are not expected
to have a significant adverse affect on the Project's outcome.
4.13   Sensitivity analysis While the risks identified do affect the number of projects undertaken by the
private developers during and after the Project, they do not affect the IERR of the projects undertaken.
Thus, there is no need to analyze the sensitivity of the IERR for these risks.
Post-project Sustainability and Participation
4.14   Post-Project Sustainability The proposed Project will lead to a long term sustainable renewable
energy small power sector. For the private developers, the demonstration effect of commercially viable
private projects included in the proposed Project will stimulate further private sector participation; some
international developers have already expressed an interest in undertaking small renewable power
projects in Indonesia. In addition, sustainability will be enhanced as a consequence of the strengthening
of the regulatory framework that is ongoing under the broader agenda of sectoral reform. Under the
Project, developments in the small power market will be monitored and, if necessary, the implementation
rules and regulations supporting the published small power purchase tariff would be revised as
appropriate. This supportive regulatory framework, coupled with resource assessments that would be
made available to the private sector are expected to lead to financial viability in the medium term. The
participating banks see a promising opportunity and growth market for their services, their interest
having been vetted by the broader ongoing developments associated with the much larger independent
power projects (IPPs) that are dominated by off-shore financing. This Project provides them with an
entry into a lucrative new line of business.
4.15   Participation The primary stakeholders in the project are: private sector small power project
developers, industry associations, PLN, Directorate General of Electricity and Energy Development, the
Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), and the Ministry of Finance. All stakeholders have been and continue to
be involved to varying degrees in project preparation. A well-attended public launch meeting, co-
sponsored by the Ministry of Energy and the Chamber of Commerce was held in March 1995 to
publicize and discuss the RESP project. Since then regular meetings have been held with industry
associations such as the Sugar Council and its members and the palm oil industry to stimulate the interest
of their members in biomass cogeneration projects and to help them prepare specific projects for the
pipeline. During project implementation, the PSG and the Bank's supervision missions will maintain
contacts with all the key stakeholders and seek their participation in resolving any implementation
difficulties that may arise.



30
5. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached With the Borrower
5.1    The agreements reached with the Government of Indonesia during negotiations are:
(i)    Terms and conditions of the BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para 3.18);
(ii)   Terms and conditions of the respective Onlending Agreements for the private PBs and
Subsidiary Loan Agreements for the State owned PBs (paras 3.18 and 3.22);
(iii)   Terms and conditions of the Subloan Agreements between PBs and the private developers
(para 3.24);
(iv)   Terms and conditions for the authorization and channeling of GEF subgrants (paras 3.21
and 3.25);
(v)    Loan allocation and reallocation amounts and procedures for the PBs (para 3.18);
(vi)   No additional Government finance or support for the private developers (para 3.9);
(viii)  Performance indicators to be utilized for monitoring (para 3.4);
(ix)   Environmental review of projects (para 3.42);
(x)    Principles governing land acquisition and resettlement for the investment component (para
3.43);
(xi)   DGEED project monitoring (para 3.41);
(xii)   Borrower shall: (a) mobilize by March 1, 1998, consultants acceptable to the Bank to
undertake the gathering of available information on renewable resources and evaluate
their quality and adequacy, and to develop and implement a simple information system
to facilitate the dissemination of this information, in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank; (b) by March 1, 2000, for about 35-50 projects, with an emphasis
on projects outside Java, upgrade resource information to a level that is sufficient to
enable the private sector undertake a pre-feasibility study that provides a reliable basis
for making an investment decision and make this information accessible to the private



31
sector on an equal access basis; and (c) prepare, by May 31, 2000, a plan, acceptable to
the Bank, for an ongoing program of resource information collection and dissemination
that would continue after the completion of this TA (para 3.12);
(xiii)  With respect to the technical assistance consultancy contract for the Project Support Group
(PSG), that: (i) PSG would be established in accordance with TOR, membership, staffing
and resources acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) DGEED will undertake contracting in a
timely manner so that the PSG can be mobilized no later than November 15, 1997 (para
3.40);
(xiv)  Borrower shall ensure that BI shall inform the Borrower, and the Borrower inform the
Bank, that a situation has arisen that may require the reallocation of the uncommitted
balance of funds allocated to a PB if that PB fails to meet BI's requirements for "sehat"
classification (para 3.18);
(xv)   Borrower shall ensure that the PBs shall:
(a)    utilize the specified subproject eligibility criteria and process (paras 3.19 -3.20)
(b)    take reasonable steps to ensure that the goods and services procured by the
subborrowers are at reasonable prices taking account of efficiency, economy,
reliability and other pertinent factors (para 3.26); and
(c)    submit their project audit reports to the Bank no later than six months after the end
of their respective fiscal years (para 3.38).
(xvi)  Borrower shall ensure that PLN shall:
(a)    by June 30 of each year, starting in 1998 (or such other date as may be agreed by
the Bank), revise and publish the small power purchase tariff including the form of
the small power purchase contract in accordance with the methodology agreed to
by the Bank (para 2.20).
(b)    Commit to purchase capacity under its PSKSK regulation (small published power
purchase tariff) for the projects to be supported under the proposed Project (para
3.7)
Condition of Effectiveness
5.2    The condition of loan effectiveness is:
(a)    Execution of subsidiary loan agreement between MOF and BI, and at least two
SLAs/OLAs between MOF/BI and the PBs, which include provisions governing the
channeling of GEF grant funds, satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.18).
Actions to be taken before Withdrawal of Loan and Grant Proceeds
5.3    The conditions of disbursement for each PB are:



32
(a)   signing of an SLAfOLA between MOF/BI and the PB, satisfactory to the Bank
(para 3.18);
(b)   obtaining prior authorization from the Bank for the subborrower (para 3.20);
Recommendation
5.4    With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a loan of US$66.4
million equivalent and a GEF grant of SDR3.0 million (US$4.0 million equivalent) to the Republic of
Indonesia.



INDONESIA
Renewable Energ Small Power Prolect
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Mines and Energy
GanrDi                                                         General
Bureajof  Bureau of  B.weauof Bweeuof  Bureajof  B~~euof          Bueau of          Inspectoreze      Inspectrate  ~of                                                          ofaE ofuodtyeanen
| Planning   ||Personn        | finaG| Foreign Coop.    oLega M                      and Teds gy    G       laaI M         of Pesonnel                      NWoG FiDanoe||        e|
oDireao    re c eMarin                                          Dectorate  Diectort                     Ming                                                                         Oil ad Gos  Dwiaote ||rectorate             na
l O      Gndo                  e opGManpd                                                                                                    Olt and Gus                                                       ct Cn  C
Vd--10&    Products                           nmt                       Enginewing   Industries                    canto lnent Cwte    P a l                                                                                          i cEeseol     mela
Regonal Ofie of dthe Deparont of Min and Energy
Paai.,iSanwwida    Bagiw*W      Bands Acelh    Madla      Palmbang  Baifarsin an.                   Manado       eypre        Padang     Ponuanak    Matearan    Pakcan Banu    Ambon
State Enmprin
PT Aneka                                                                                                                                  li
PIaA          Frr Timaj    Tatnban      Partannina     pIN          PGN               PT 
coala             (Pm)       Ganeral   (011£ Gee)  (Electridy)  (Udkoy Gas)          Konelba
Beefc4)wW7fl7a Iil



34
Annex 2.1
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
Marginal Cost of Conventional Electricity Supply (USO/kWh)
Region/Grid           System-wide Average         Marginal Costs of
Cost of Supply          Generation at MV
Outside Java - Bali
*  Regional grid                 11.8                       8.0
*  Diesel operation              15-20+                   14-22+
Java-Bali                            8.5                       6.5
Source: PLN



35
Annex 2.2
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
Power Subsector - List of IDA Credits and Bank Loans
Bank    Credit or         Date                   Project               Amount        PPAR/PCR/ICR.
FY      Loan No.    Closed/Closing               Title                $ Million    Report No. Date
70    Credit 165         1975       Jakarta Power Distribution        15.81        2741    Nov 1979
72    Credit 334         1978       Jakarta Power Distribution II     40.00        2741    Nov 1979
73    Credit 399         1980       Thermal Power                     46.00        5104    May 1984
75    Loan 1127          1980       PowerlV                           41.00        5104    May 1984
76    Loan 1259          1981       Power V                           90.00        5300    Oct 1984
77    Loan 1365          1984       Power VI                         116.00        6238    Jun 1986
78    Loan 1513          1985       Power VII                         78.40        6762    Apr 1987
79    Loan 1708          1986       Power VIII                       158.10        7902    Jun 1989
80    Loan 1872          1987       Power IX                        224.80         7902    Jun 1989
81    Loan 1950          1987       PowerX                          250.00         7902    Jun 1989
82    Loan 2056          1988       Power XI                         167.00         8701   Jun 1990
83    Loan 2214          1991       Power XII                       278.63         11014   Sep 1992
83    Loan 2300          1990       Power XIII (Cirata)             270.32         11014   Sep 1992
84    Loan 2443          1991       Power XIV                       205.11         11014   Sep 1992
85    Loan 1950-1        1990       Power X Supplemental             49.20          7902   Jun 1989
87    Loan 2778          1992       Power Transmission &
Distribution                    222.81        14725   Jun 1995
Loan 3097          1995       Power Sector Efficiency         337.00         15876   June 1996
89    Loan 3098          1995       Paiton Thermal Power            354.00         15762  June1996
89    Loan 3180          1995       Rural Electrification           329.00         15210   Dec 1995
90    Loan 3349          1996/a     Power Transmission              275.00
91    Loan 3501          1999/a     Suralaya Thermal Power          423.60
92    Loan 3602          1999la     Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II    104.00
93    Loan 3761          2000/a     Sumatera-Kalimantan             260.50
94    Loan 3845          1998/a     Second Rural Electrification    398.00
96    Loan 3978          2000'      Second Power Transmission &
Distribution                    373.00
97    Loan 4132           2001 b    Solar Home Systems               20.00
Total                        5127.28
Ongoing project
/b Loan not yet effective



36
Annex 3.1
Page l of3
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
Performance Indicators
This annex consists of two tables. Table 1 provides the key performance indicators to be used to
monitor the progress of the project, while Table 2 provides additional information about inputs,
outcomes, risks and impact.
For the purposes of measuring the Project's performance, the national and global objectives (paras
3.2, 3.3 ) are expressed more concisely as:
e      Objective A: Facilitate private sector led development of small renewable power
projects selling electricity to a PLN grid on a commercially sustainable basis.
-      Objective B: Lower resource information barriers that block private sector investment in
small renewable power projects.
Approximate nature of targets Some of the value of the indicators in Table I have been
derived on the basis of the best possible estimates of the outcomes that depend either upon the future
behavior of private sector entrepreneurs who have yet to become fully established in this business or
upon resource information that is not yet available. For this reason, these targets have been stated as
approximate values rather than as precise numbers.
Relative weights for evaluation purposes The bulk of the resources under this Project will be
devoted to the primarily for Objective A (Table 2). While Objective B is important from the projection
of longer term market development, it is secondary in that the best stimulus for market development is
from the example set by actual projects on the ground (i.e., the outcome of Objective A).
*   For Objective A, a "satisfactory" rating would require that, as of the ICR year, (i) the actual
numerical values are within 80% of the targets, and delays in plan preparation not exceed
nine months, and (ii) a "highly satisfactory" rating would require that the actual values are
within 90% of the targets, and delays in plan preparation not exceed six months.
* For Objective B, A "satisfactory" rating would require that the actual values of the
indicators are within 80% of the targets, and a "highly satisfactory" rating would require that
the indicators be within 90% of the targets.
* The Overall rating for the project would be largely determined by the rating for Objective A.
The project outcome would be rated "satisfactory" if both objectives are rated "satisfactory".
For the project to be rated "highly satisfactory", Objective A would have to be rated as such,
with a "satisfactory" or better rating" on Objective B. By the same token for the project to
be rated unsatisfactory, Objective A would have to be rated "unsatisfactory".



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
Table 1: Key Performance Indicators
Baseline Year  Mid-Term Year  ICR Year  Full Impact Year
Project Objectives                                     Performance Indicators                                1996            1999            2001            2005
A. Facilitate private sector led development Outcome Indicators
of small renewable power projects    - Number of private sector renewable energy small power projects connected to     0                3            10-12           15-20
selling electricity to a PLN grid on a  PLN grids
commercially sustainable basis
- Total capacity of private sector renewable energy small power projects connected  0            23             80-90         100-140
to PLN grids (MW)
- Availability of basic resource information for potential projects              -           15 projects       30-40           50-60
projects       projects
- Number of developers with a bad debt-service record                                            -              0-1             -
Impact Indicators
- Cumulative diesel use displaced (million liters/year)                                          40              140            200
- Net Present Value Foreign exchange saved over 20 years (US$ million)                           25              90             125
- Cumulative environmental benefits ('000 tons C02 emissions abated)                            1,500           6,290          9.950
B. Lower resource information barriers that Outcome Indicator
block private sector investment in small - Basic resource information available                                                   Plan prepared   About 35 - 50    About 100
renewable power projects.                                                                                                                           projects        projects
Impact Indicator
- Improved prospects for accelerated development of renewable energy potential                                About 75       About 200
outside Java (MW)
x
0



Table 2: PERFORMANCE MONITORING: Outcomes, Risks and Impacts
Objectives                      Inputs                                Output                  Outcomes                    Targets                           Risks                Impacts
A. Facilitate private sectoT    *  IBRD loan ($66m)                      Construction and      *  Recognition by         -  About 12-15 additional          Private sector          Increased reliance
led development of       *  GEF grant ($3m)                            commissioning by         private developers,       renewable energy projects        finns fail to be        on indigenous
small renewable power       Private sector/commercial banks ($69m)     private sector of       commercial banks                                            attracted because      resources,
projects selling                                                       commercially viable     and PLN that private       Reduction in diesel use,         of problems in          environmentally
electricity to a PLN grid    *BRD, private sector and commercial       renewable energy        renewable energy           mitigation of CO2                dealing with PLN,       sustainable and
on a commercially           banks' funds will finance the              small power             projects can benefit       EMISSIONS, foreign               or higher than          consistent with a
sustainable basis           development of renewable energy small      projects (mainly        all of them                exchange savings                 anticipated             least-cost plan
power projects by private developers      biomass)                                                                            transaction costs
Reduced diesel                                                                     Reduction in costs
GEF funds will assist private developers                           consumption with                                                                   of PLN's outside
in pre-investment activities and initial                           associated CO2                                             Pi         deI          Java operations
implementation support                                             emissions mitigation                                        rvate deve opers
and foreign exchange                                       faltoarpas tei
saving                                                     las
B. Lower resource          * GEF grant (Sim) to develop a system of    * Renewable resource      Ptivate sector has         For about 35 - 50 projects      Lack of
information barriers       collection and dissemination of basic     database and             easier access to          resource information is          commitment leads        Improved
that block private         renewable energy resource information     information system       reliable and required      upgraded to a level whereby     to poor results.        prospects for
sector investment in                                                  of collection,          information on             private sector can conduct a                            accelerated                 00
small renewable                                                       updating and            renewable resource         pre-feasibility study.                                  development of
power projects                                                        dissemination of        potential for small                                                                renewable energy
renewable resource      renewable power                                                                    potential outside
infornation             projects                                                                           Java.
fD  a
w t
0
)Lh WJ



39
Annex 3.2
Page I of 3
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROSPECTIVE PARTICIPANT PROJECTS
1.1    Prospective Investment Project Pipeline
The pipeline of prospective project participants consists of (i) about 85 MW of bagasse and other
biomass cogeneration projects and (ii) 15 MW of mini-hydro projects. Table 1 shows the regional
distribution of these projects. The projects are in listed two groups: Group I projects, which have had
feasibility studies completed and are expected to reach financial closure shortly after loan effectiveness, and
Group 2 projects, most of which have had pre-feasibility studies completed and financial closure is
expected to take place within one year of loan effectiveness.
Table 1: Prospective Small Power Projects
Group I Projects*                 Group 2 Projects*
Province                 Number          Size (MW)          Number         Size (MW)
Sugar Mills Projects
Java                     2 mills             17            3-4 mills           23
Sulawesi                                     -               1 mill            3
Sumatera                  I mill             6             2-4 mills           29
Kalimantan                                   -               I mill            4
Total - Sugar mills      3 mills             23              7-10              59
Other Biomass Projects
Sumatera            -                        -             1 project           3
Mini-hydro Projects
Sumatera                                                  2-4 projects         15
Total SPP Projects      3 projects           23          10-15 projects        77
* Group I projects have had feasibility studies completed and are expected to reach financial closure shortly after loan
effectiveness; most of Group 2 projects have had pre-feasibility studies completed and financial closure is expected
within one year of loan effectiveness.
1.2    A Brief Description of Cogeneration of Power in Sugar Mills
Sugar mills process cane stalks to produce sugar. Sugarcane bagasse is the fibrous residue of
sugarcane stalks which remain after the juice is removed. Cane sugar mills have traditionally burned their
bagasse in conventional steam boilers to produce steam, which can be used directly as steam in the sugar
making process or used to generate electricity for the mill's own use.
Historically, once the mill's own needs for steam were satisfied, any surplus bagasse was generally
considered a waste product requiring disposal. Consequently, there was no incentive to maximize the
efficiency of the energy production from bagasse. There are however, alternatives uses for bagasse such as
paper making feed-stock, fiber and pressed board feed-stock, furfural and other chemical feed-stock, and as
a fuel for surplus electricity generation for sale to the grid. As a result, increasing attention is being paid to
the efficiency of the energy production and use in sugar mills to maximize the bagasse availability for by-



40
Annex 3.2
Page 2 of 3
product revenue generation. Already, there are sugar mills in Central America, Hawaii. Florida, Pakistan,
Mauritius, and India where substantial amounts of grid supply electricity are profitably produced by the
sugar industry.
In Indonesia, the first option for using surplus bagasse to produce power for sale to the grid is to use
underutilized boiler capacity. A new condensing turbine generator is installed to allow full utilization of the
surplus bagasse during or after the season to produce electricity for sale to the grid. The majority of the
projects in Indonesia will fall into this category.
A second option is to install new boilers with higher temperatures and pressures than are currently
used by the mills. This results in a technically more efficient use of bagasse, and surplus bagasse can be
burned to produce more steam that can be utilized in new condensing or condensing/extraction steam
turbine generators in lieu of or as a supplement to existing back pressure units. As before, excess electricity
would be fed to a PLN grid.
A sector environmental assessment (SEA) report for the sugar industry was performed during
project preparation and is available in the project files.
1.3    A Brief Description of Participating Sugar Mills
There are 70 sugar mills in Indonesia producing over 2 million tons per year of sugar. The
domestic demand is greater than the industry can supply and at least 8 large new sugar mills (10,000 tpd
cane processing each) are in the planning stages for erection on Sumatera and Sulawesi, while a large
number of existing mills are also being expanded to the 5,000 - 7,000 tpd size range. Sugar mills in
Indonesia process from about 2,000 tpd to 12,000 tpd sugar cane for an average 180 day season (150 -
210 days).
Of the 70 mills, 58 are public sector mills while 12 are privately owned and operated. Over 50
of the mills are currently located on Java. About 20 of the public sector mills on Java (the smallest and
least efficient) are to be closed over the next several years because of land use conflicts and poor
financial returns. The ages of the mills varies from almost 100 years to less than 5 years. The
Government policy now encourages the sugar industry growth outside Java and to be heavily private
sector reliant. The public sector mills that will continue to operate are the ones running most efficiently
and profitably now. The public sector mills operate under State Corporations that are structured as
semi-autonomous profit centers that are held accountable for financial performance. RESP projects are
planned in those public and private sector mills that can provide credit worthy balance sheets.
The RESP pipeline projects tend to be in sugar mills that are at least 10 years in operation,
because the newer and larger mills tend to be too far from appropriate grid interconnect (more than 40
km) and/or are in regions with too low a local kW demand. Projects in the newer (and generally larger)
mills will take place as PLN grid extensions progress and off-Java population centers continue to grow.
The RESP pipeline is based on with sugar mills that can project viable sugar making operations
in the long term (10 - 15 years). The sugar mills tend to be clustered, especially on Java and parts of
Sumatera, with the clustered mills normally owned by the same company. The projects identified in the
pipeline will normally be year round (firm power) grid-supply projects where the supplementary fuel will
be surplus bagasse produced by the project mill, plus surplus bagasse transported from adjacent mills. In
some cases, this supplementary fuel supply would be transported from a nearby location (normally less
than 30 km).



41
Annex 3.2
Page 3 of 3
The RESP projects are strategically planned such that mills with existing surplus equipment,
with expansion plans, or with boiler or steam turbine-generator replacement requirements are priority
project sites. This approach allows low investment and/or dual cost recovery to be accounted against
some procurements, and tends to assure the reliability that produces 90+% availability factors in the
plants. This approach was developed in conjunction with the Ministry of Agriculture, Indonesia Sugar
Council, and has allowed the RESP Project to produce a pipeline of potential projects with high
probability of excellent reliability and good financial returns. As PLN considers the load flow
implications of all projects before approval and issuance of the PPA, the sugar industry grid supply
projects can be characterized as being an integral part of a sound power sector development strategy.



42
Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
Bank Indonesia's Bank Rating System
The criteria used by Bank Indonesia (BI) to assess the financial soundness of banks is based on
an evaluation of five factors -- capital adequacy, asset quality, earnings, liquidity and management --
considered crucial to the soundness of a financial institution. Ratios, calculated from data provided in
monthly reports submitted by banks, are compared to the norms see below established by BI for each of
the five areas of evaluation. An overall rating is then computed and banks informed of their rating by BI
as appropriate.
The soundness of a bank is determined on the basis of a reward system for each of the above five
areas of evaluation. In order to compute the total reward points, the following rule is applied:
Capital (25 percent): capital adequacy based on a risk-weighted assets as defined under
the BIS guidelines for the G- 10 countries. All financial institutions are required to reach
a minimum 5 percent capital ratio by March 1992, increasing to 7 percent by March
1993 and 8 percent by December 1993. If a bank is below and/or up to the minimum
capital required, there are no (or zero) reward points. With every increase of 0.01
percent over the minimum capital requirement, a bank is awarded on reward point;
Asset quality (30 percent): classified assets as a proportion of total earnings assets of a
bank. If classified assets are 15.5 percent or above of total earnings assets, there are no
(or zero) reward points. With every decrease of 0.15 percent from the 15.5 percent
classified assets to total earning assets ratio, a bank is awarded one reward point;
Earnings (10 percent): consists of two factors: return on total assets and the ratio of
operational cost to operational income. If return on total assets is zero or negative, there
are no (or zero) reward points. With every increase of 0.015 percent in return on total
assets, a bank is awarded one reward point. If the ratio of operational cost to operational
income is one, there are no (or zero) reward points. With every decrease of 0.08 percent
in this ratio, a bank is awarded one reward point;
Liquidity (10 percent): ratio of total current liabilities to total current assets. If this ratio
is one, there are no (or zero) reward points. With every decrease of 1 percent in this
ratio, a bank is awarded one reward point; and
Management (25 percent): a qualitative factor, is reviewed from many aspects, including
a bank's internal control systems, MIS, capital position, asset quality, liquidity, lending
policy, compliance with Bank Indonesia regulations, reporting requirements, etc. Every
positive aspect of a bank's management is awarded with four-tenths of a reward point.



43
AnnLex 3.3
Page 2 of 2
The soundness of a bank is rated on the basis of total reward points as follows:
a.     SEHAT (Sound) - if its reward points range from 81 to 100
b.     CUKUP SEHAT (Fairly Sound) - if its reward points range from 66 to 80
c.     KURANG SEHAT (Unsatisfactory) - if its reward points range from 51 to 65
d.     TIDAK SEHAT (Poor? - if its reward points range from 0 to 50.



44
Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits
Broad Development Goals
1.    Indonesia's basic goals and policies for the development of the energy sector highlight the
importance of meeting Indonesia's rapidly growing energy needs in an efficient manner, including through
conservation and diversification of primary energy resources, and minimizing the adverse environmental
and social impacts of energy use. A key and continuing thrust of the Government's energy strategy is to
slow down Indonesia's transition to net oil importer status by diversifying energy supply for domestic
consumption towards alternative and economic indigenous resources that have a non-exportable surplus or
are non-tradable, such as renewable energy. Rural electrification (RE) is a key and integral part of the
Government's rural development strategy.
Baseline
2.     In Indonesia today, the supply of electricity to rural households depends heavily on diesel-based
generation. The national power utility (PLN) owns and operates over 5,000 diesel plants scattered
throughout Indonesia -- about 2,000 MW of diesel generating capacity -- as a primary means to supply
power for rural electrification. Further, in PLN's present rural electrification plans, the default option is to
add diesel-based generation capacity. Further, in Indonesia, at present, there are no private small renewable
energy power projects that sell their output to PLN.
3.    In these circumstances, the baseline course of action is that PLN will continue to rely on diesel-
based generation for rural electrification.
Global Environmental Objective
4.     The baseline course of action will lead to significant emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2). Thus,
the global environmental objective of the RESP project is the mitigation of GHG emissions.
GEF Alternatives
5.     The renewable energy power projects developed under the RESP project represent the least-cost
option. The private producers clearly have an incentive to minimize their costs, and these will be less than
PLN's avoided costs, since the private producers will sell their output to PLN on a tariff based on PLN's
avoided costs. From the global environmental perspective, the costs of GHG abatement are low since the
small renewable power projects developed under the RESP project do not need GEF support for investment;
the private producers need limited GEF support only in the initial phases of developing their projects.



45
Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 4
System Boundary
6.     The RESP project is expected to have programmatic benefits, in addition to the project benefits, by
demonstrating the financial viability and least-cost nature of renewable energy small power projects. In
other words, the RESP project will accelerate the penetration of renewable energy small power projects.
Additional Domestic Benefits
7.     There are no additional domestic benefits beyond progress towards least-cost provision of
electricity.
Costs
8.     The GEF incremental cost arises from two types of activities: (i) support for the pre-investment
activities of the private developers as well as guiding and coordinating the power projects through the
preparation/development phase in the first two years of the RESP project, and (ii) resource assessment and
management that would not be undertaken by any private individual developer.
9.     Pre-investment activities The Indonesian project developers will have to hire engineering and
environmental firms for pre-investment activities, as there is no precedent in Indonesia for the
implementation of small grid supply renewable energy based projects. It is estimated that the pre-
investment costs to the potential developers will be in the range $ 125,000 to $250,000, excluding internal
staff time contributed by the developers. It is expected that about 15 projects would need support for pre-
investment activities, for a total cost in the range of $2.5 to $3.0 million.
10.    Support activities There is also a need for a small Project Support Group (PSG) in Indonesia that
will serve as the guide, manager, coordinator, and trainer for moving the renewable energy projects through
the preparation/development/implementation process. A lean PSG is expected to have a budget of about
$1.5 million.
11.    The total cost of the pre-investment and support activities is $4.0 million. The counter-factual
expenditure of the private developers is based not on renewable energy development but on the business
activities that the developers would have otherwise undertaken; this amount is estimated to be $1 million.
On this basis, the GEF incremental costs are $3.0 million.
12.    Resource management and assessment Private developers of small hydro and geothermal resources
face an inhibiting factor that impedes the timely evaluation and implementation of viable power projects:
lack of information about potential sites. Over the years, PLN has assembled an inventory of hundreds of
potential small hydro and geothermal project sites, but the level and quality of the inventory information
assembled varies considerably, and it lacks the organizational structure needed for an efficient commercial
assessment, integration, and prioritization process that is mandatory, if such inventory is to be disseminated
to potential developers in a useful form. Under the RESP project, the available information will be
collected, collated and packaged so that it is usable by potential private developers. This database related to
hydro and geothermal resources is expected to lead a significant number of renewable energy small power
projects.



46
Annex 3.4
Page 3 of 4
13.    The estimated cost of this database activity is $1.0 million. Given that no private developer can
undertake this or some similar activity, the GEF incremental cost is also $1.0 million.
14.    Thus, the GEF incremental cost is $4 million.
Global Environmental Benefits
15.    The overall avoided emissions are about 10.0 million tons of CO2, with a total GEF grant of $4.0
million, leading to a GEF unit cost of about $0.43/ton CO2. The estimates of the emissions avoided include
both the emissions avoided from investments directly supported ("project effect") by the RESP project (6.3
million tons of CO2) as well as the investments indirectly accelerated ("programmatic effect") (3.7 million
tons of C02) as a result of the RESP project. In other words, the impact of the RESP project is measured as
the difference between the market penetration of the renewable energy technologies with and without the
RESP project.
16.    For all of the renewable energy technologies, the estimation of total emissions avoided starts with
an estimate of the unit emissions avoided factor. Given the likely location of the generation facilities, it is
assumed the renewable energy technologies will substitute for the regional grids and the Java-Bali grid.
Based on these substitutions, the avoided emissions are calculated in terms of CO2 tons/GWh. The
estimated value is biomass cogeneration: 650 tons C02/GWh.
17.    The unit avoided emissions factors are multiplied by the estimated penetration of the technology to
arrive at the total emissions avoided. The estimated penetration is based on the projects directly supported
by the GEF grants as well as the accelerated penetration induced by the GEF supported activities.



47
Annex 3.4
Page 4 of 4
Incremental Cost Matrix
18.     The incremental cost matrix is presented below.
Costs                      Domestic               Global Environmental
Benefits                     Benefits
Baseline       T.A.
Private sector $1 million on pre-
investment for non-power projects
Barriers to renewable energy small power
No expenditure on resource                            projects remain in place
information management
Investnent
Benefits from
PLN expenditures with an economic   electricity      No renewable energy small power projects
cost of US $ 113 million or more on    produced from 80-
diesel generation projects        90 MW of diesel
capacity
Alternative    T.A.
$4 million by private sector for pre-                 Barriers to renewable energy small power
investment and support for renewable                  private projects reduced or eliminated: (i)
energy small power projects                           high pre-investment costs, and (ii)
lack/high cost of resource information
$1 million for resource information
management
Investment
Private sector expenditures with an  Cost reduction in    10-12 renewable energy small power
economic cost of US $ 113 million  and benefits from    private projects. Net avoided C02
on renewable energy small power   electricity        emissions of 10.0 million tons. Barriers to
private projects                  produced from 80-  renewable energy small power private
90 MW of           projects reduced or eliminated: (i) lack of
renewable capacity  term debt financing, and (ii) poor enabling
environment
Increment      TA.
$3 million for pre-investment and                    Barriers to renewable energy small power
support for renewable sources                        private projects reduced or eliminated: (i)
high pre-investment costs, and (ii)
$1 million for resource information                  lack/high cost of resource information
management
Investment
No incremental cost                                   10-12 renewable energy small power
private projects. Net avoided C02
emissions of 10.0 million tons. Barriers to
renewable energy small power private
projects reduced or eliminated: (i) lack of
term debt financing, and (ii) poor enabling
environment



48
Annex 3.5
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
Information Required in a Subborower's Project Plan
The project plan should contain the financial, technical and operational information indicated
below.
I.    SUMMARY
II.    BACKGROUND OF THE COMPANY
III.   PROJECT TECHNICAL CHARACTERISTICS
IV.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
V.    PROJECT OPERATING AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND PROJECTIONS
Annex
Equipment to be used
Procurement practices
Plans to comply with environmental regulations, and land acquisition and resettlemet to
include the following:
For Biomass projects:
i) An environmental compliance report (ECR) as outlined in Annex 3.10, prepared by the PSG
and acceptable to the Bank.
ii) A consent letter by the subborrower accepting the finding and recommendations of the ECR.
The letter should include a commitment for timely implementation of the ECR's
recommendations and specify the arrangements to be made for financing the environmental
components.
iii) Official, up to date, environmental permits to operate the mill.
iv) Building permits for the additional power generation facilities.
For any project (if required):
i) Land acquisition and compensation plan as outlined in Annex 3.12.
ii) Resettlement action plan as outlined in Annex 3.13.



49
Annex 3.6
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ MILLION)
IBRD CREDIT                             GEF
GRANT
Bank FY             Disbursement          Cumulative         Disbursement         Cumulative
Semester        Semester   Cumulative   % of Loan    Semester   Cumulative   % of Grant
1998-I           0.0           0.0           0%           0.2           0.2          5%
1998-I1           2.0          2.0           3%            0.5          0.7          18%
1999-I           9.0           11.0         16%           0.5           1.2          30%
1999-II           9.0          20.0         30%            0.5          1.7          43%
2000 - I         12.5          32.5         49%           0.75         2.45          61%
2000 - II         12.5         45.0          68%          0.75          3.2          80%
2001 - 1          7.5          52.5         79%           0.25         3.45          86%
2001 - II         7.5          60.0          90%          0.25          3.7          93%
2002- I           6.4          66.4         100%          0.3           4.0          100%



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1997                  1998                  1999                  2000                  2001
Task Name                                              Qi   Q203l 1   02103   04                     l I[o2   0 3   0F4   ~J        3~01 2 03 Q Ql1 02 1 310
I GENERAL-                                                                                           .-          -       -    -       .-
1.1 Loan Effectiveness                                            *101 51697
1.2 WB Supervision Missions                                       p      a      *.    *        *       *      *      a       a      *      *
1.3 Mid Term Review                                                                                   iiss 
1.4 Project Closing Dat3011e
1.5 ICR & Final Report
1.6 End of Loan                                                                                                                                     1110 
2 SPP BAGASSE COGEN PROJECTS-                                           -    - -.-                                             - -
2.1 Kuala Madu Project-                                             -    -     -       -
2.1.1 Financing Agreement
2.1.2 Proc-urement
2.1.3 Construction, Erection & Commissioning-                                      -
2.2 Jatitujuh Project                                      .      .      -
2.2.1 Feasibility
2.2.2 Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)
2.2.3 Financing Agreement                                    1-
2.2.4 Procurement
2.2.5 Construction, Erection & Commissioning                               -     -    -
2.3 Ngadirejo Project                                                     -*-        -*-*-                            - -
2.3.1 Financing Agreement
2.3.2 Procurement 
2.3.3 Construction, Erection & Commissioning                                                                                                                    M      
2.4 Trankil Project                                         .-
2.4.1 Feasibility
2.4.2 Povwer Purchase Agreement (PPA)
Detailed schedule is given in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP)                                                                                       Page I of 3



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1997                 1998                  1999                  2000                  2001
Task Name                                             Ql  Q    Q3   Q4   Q1   0 Q2   0 Q3   Q4   Q1 I Q2 I Q3  0-Q4    Q1  02   0 Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2 |Q3   Q4
2.4.3 Financing Agreement
2.4.4 Procurement
2.4.5 Construction, Erection & Commissioning
2.5 Jatiroto Project                                                                                                ------
2.5.1 Feasibility
2.5.2 Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)
2.5.3 Financing Agreement
2.5.4 Procurement
2.5.5 Construction, Erection & Commissioning
2.6 Bone/Camming Project
2.6.1 Feasibility
2.6.2 Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)
2.6.3 Financing Agreement
2.6.4 Procurement
2.6.5 Construction, Erection & Commissioning
3 OTHER TURBO-GENERATOR ONLY SPP PROJECTS
4 OTHER BOILER, TURBO-GENERATOR SPP PROJECTS                            _ ________.______
5 MINI-HYDRO SPP PROJECT (1)
5.1 Feasibility                                   _D
5.2 Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)                                          l
5.3 Financing Agreement
5.4 Procurement                                                                 i____
5.5 MH Implementation                                                                 i
Detailed schedule is given in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP)                                                                                     Page 2 of 3



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1997                 1998                 1999                 2000                 2001
Task Name                                                                 Ql3 4   Q2 I Q3   Q4   Q    2              Q     2 Q3   Q4 Q1 Q    Q2  0Q3 04
6 MINI-HYDRO SPP PROJECT (2)                                            -               -          .         -
6.1 Feasibility
6.2 Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)                   :.,
6.3 Financing Agreement
6.4 Procurement
6.5 MH Implementation
7 MINI-HYDRO SPP PROJECT (3)
7.1 Feasibility                                      :                       t -"  
7.2 Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)                                           r. _
7.3 FinancingAgreement                                                                          - :                       _              - _ _ _ _ _  
7.4 Procurement
7.5 MH Implementation                                  _I
8 PROJECT SUPPORT GROUP
8.1 Tendering Phase                                   r
8.2 PSG Operation
8.3 Pre-investment Fund Operation by DGEED
9 SPP RESOURCE INFORMATION (DGEED)
9.1 Tendering Phase
9.2 RI TA Phase I Work
9.3 RI TA Phase Il Work                                                                    __________i ;____o_
Detailed schedule is given in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP)                                                                                 Page 3 of 3



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                  1998                   1999                   2000                   2001
Task0Name                                                Q1    2   03       04   01   Q2   Q3    4   Q       2   Q3   Q4   01   Q2   Q3         4   Q1I Q2 I Q3   Q4
IGENERAL                                                                r4
1.6 Loan Effectiveness                                                                                                                                   10310115/97
2 .2 WB  Supervision Missions                          =*
i.3 Mid Term Review                                                          10/1 5/99 
.1.4 Project Closing Date                                                                                                                      I30/01
1.5 ICR & Final Reporteement
1.6 End of Loan   n                                                                                                                                      10A3101 
2 SPP BAGASSE COGEN PROJECTS                                                                                                      -------
2.1 Kuala Madu Project_                                                _                                      ___                               __ _
2.1.1 Financing Agreement
2.1.1.1 Loa n Application Preparation/Submission
2.1.1.2 Loan Negotiation_                                                                                    ____
2.1.1.3 Loan Approval                                 11/7/9  10;                                                    _
2.1.2 Procurementr._
2.1.2.1SBid Document Preparation_                                                      _ _         =      _._
2.1.2.2 Issue Bid Documents                             1212319  4 ,
2.1.2.3 Bid Closing
2.1.2.4 Bid Evaluation
2.1.2.5 Contract Award                                       226
2.1.3 Construction, Erection & Commissioning
2.1.3.1 Ordering                            _                  _o
2.1.3.2 Manufacture                                                                      i 
0
2.1.3.3 Civil Works                              _          _._
21.3.4 Environmental Compliance Work                                                                 _4
2.1.3.5 Inspection and Shipment
Page 1 of 14



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                   1998                    1999                    2000                    2001
Task Name                                                   Q1Q Q       Q31Q4   01   02   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   03   Q4   Q    0Q2   Q3   04   Q1   Q2   Q31Q4
2.1.3.6 E/M for T-G Set Equipment
2.1.3.7 Shakedown & Commissioning
2.1.3.8 Plant Acceptance                                                                      5/28/99      _          _
2.1.3.9 PLN Inspection & Interconnection
2.1.3.10 Project Completion                                       I                             6/8/99 *
2.2 Jatitujuh Project
2.2.1 Feasibility                                           ________                                                                                    -       -_
2.2.1.1 Technical Definition
2.2.1.2 Environmental Compliance Report (ECR)
2.2.1.3 ECR Approval by Bank/PSG              51/197
2.2.1.4 Financing & Business Plan
2.2.1.5 Preliminary Finance Commitment                 r ,        I                                                                   -
~__i______              4 .                                                   __ _ _ _ _ _ __                 _ _ _ _ _ _
2.2.1.6 Optimization Analysis
2.2.1.7 Feasibility Documentation                                                          _
2.2.2 Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)
2.2.2.1 PPA Application Preparation/Submission
2.2.2.2 PPA Evaluation by PLN    _                                                                               .i  | _ . . _ _
2.2.2.3 PPA Approval                                   119/97     !
2.2.3 Financing Agreement
2.2.3.1 Loan Application Preparation/Submission
2.2.3.2 Loan Negotiation
2.2.3.3 Loan Approval                                    11/17/97                                                                                                 -        t
2.2.4 Procurement                                                                                                                                          ___r_  -
2.2.4.1 Bid Document Preparation
2.2.4.2 Issue Bid Documents                                12/16/9
2.2.4.3 Bid Closing
Page 2 of 14



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                  1998                   1999                  2000         [2001
Task Name                                               Q1   02   03   04   Qi  Q2   Q3   Q4   Qt  Q203 Q             Q4   01    2   Q3   Q4 |Q  02   Q3   0 24
2.2.4.4 Bid Evaluation
2.2.4.5 Contract Award                                        2
2.2.5 Construction, Erection & Commissioning
2.2.5.1 Ordering
2.2.5.2 Manufacture
2.2.5.3 Civil Works
2.2.5.4 Environmental Compliance Work
2.2.5.5 Inspection & Shipment
2.2.5.6 E/M for T-G Set Equipment
2.2.5.7 Shakedown & Commissioning
2.2.5.8 Plant Acceptance                                                                 5
2.2.5.9 PLN Inspection & Interconnection
2.2.5.10 Project Completion                               -                               f89
2.3 Ngadirejo Project                                               r
2.3.1 Financing Agreement
2.3.1.1 Loan Application Preparation/Submission
2.3.1.2 Loan Negotiation
2.3.1.3 Loan Approval                                  12/1U9i ,.
2.3.2 Procurement
2.3.2.1 Bid Document Preparation
2.3.2.2 Issue Bid Documents                2/9/
2.3.2.3 Bid Closing
2.3.2.4 Bid Evaluation                                .                                                                                         .
2.3.2.5 Contract Award                                        04124/98                                                                                   -
2.3.3 Construction, Erection & Commissioning                 _                              __ i_ eo
2.3.3.1 Ordering
Page 3 of 14



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                  1981992000    ___2001
Task Name                                                Q112]020 01 Q2    3                                 4   Ql 02   Q3   Q4   01 2]  [Q        1Q2  Q310
2.3.3.2 Manufacture
2.3.3.3 Civil Works
2.3.3.4 Environmental Compliance Work
2.3.3.5 Inspection & Shipment
2.3.3.6 E/M for T-G & Boiler Equipment
2.3.3.7 Shakedown & Commissioning
2.3.3.8 Plant Acceptance                                                                                        520
2.3.3.9 PLN Inspection & Interconnection
2.3.3.1 0 Project Completion                                                                              __5i17i00
2.4 Trankll Project
2.4.1 Feasibility
2.4.1.1 Technical Definition
LA~
2.4.1.2 Environmental Compliance Repo rt (ECR)
2.4.1.3 ECR Approval by Bank/PSG           2197
2.4.1.4 Financing & Business Plan
2.4.1.5 Preliminary Finance Commitment
2.4.1.6 Optimization Analysis
2.4.1.7 Feasibility Documentation
2.4.2 Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)
2.4.2.1 PPA Application Preparation/Submission
2.4.2.2 PPA Evaluation by PLN-                                                                             _-__-__
2.4.2.3 PPA Approval                             8/ /907
2.4.3 Financing Agreement 
2.4.3.11 Loan Application Preparation/Submission                                                                                                               -c
2.4.3.2 Loan Negotiation- _  -__---
2.4.3.3  Loan  Approval                     0__ _                  __ _ _ _-17           _ _ __ _          -   _ _ __97                _ _ _ _ __ _ _    
Page 4 of 14



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                   1998                  1999                   2000                   2001
Task Name                                                Q1  Qa 2   Q3  04    1                  Q2       3          Q4   Q  2   03    4    1   Q2   Q3   04   01 1 Q2 1 Q3  Q4
2.4.4 Procurement
2.4.4.1 Bid Document Preparation
2.4.4.2 Issue Bid Documents                           11117197
2.4.4.3 Bid Closing                                             di]
2.4.4.4 Bid Evaluation
2.4.4.5 Contract Award                                      1127/9                                           _;
2.4.5 Construction, Erection & Commissioning
2.4.5.1 Ordering.
2.4.5.2 Manufacture
2.4.5.3 Civil Works
2.4.5.4 Environmental Compliance Work
2.4.5.5 Inspection & Shipment
2.4.5.6 E/M for T-G Set Equipment
2.4.5.7 Shakedown & Commissioning
2.4.5.8 Plant Acceptance                                                        12124/98
2.4.5.9 PLN Inspection & Interconnection
2.4.5.10 Project Completion                                                        114199
2.5 Jatiroto Project
2.5.1 Feasibility
2.5.1.1 Technical Definition
2.5.1.2 Environmental Compliance Report (ECR)
2.5.1.3 ECR Approval by Bank/PSG                7/23 7                                                                                                            rD
2.5.1.4 Financing & Business Plan
2.5.1.5 Preliminary Finance Commitment                                                            ,h_
2.5.1.6 Optimization Analysis                 __                                           _       _ _ _
2.5.1.7 Feasibility Documentation                          t                       .                                                             _
Page 5 of 14



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                  1998                   1999            22000                         2001
Task Name                                  oi~~~~~~~~~~Q   02 I03   04   01    2   0     Q4   01   02   03   Q410121304Q-1   02   Q3    04
2.5.2 Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)
2.5.2.1 PPA Application Preparation/Submission
2.5.2.2 PPA Evaluation by PLN
2.5.2.3 PPA Approval                                 1118197  -
2.5.3 Financing Agreement
2.5.3.1 Loan Application Preparation/Submission
2.5.3.2 Loan Negotiation
2.5.3.3 Loan Approval                                 1149
2.5.4 Procurement
2.5.4.1 Bid Document Preparation
2.5.4.2 Issue Bid Documents                             12115/97 4
2.5.4.3 Bid Closing
2.5.4.4 Bid Evaluation___    .#IiIiii   __-
2.5.4.5 Contract Award                                        2128---                      ---                                               ---_
2.5.5 Construction, Erection & Commissioning
2.5.5.1 Ordering
2.5.5.2 Manufacture
2.5.5.3 Civil Works
2.5.5.4 Environmental Compliance Work
2.5.5.5 Inspction & Shipment
2.5.5.6 E/M for T-G & Boiler Equipment
2.5.5.7 Shakedown & Commissioning
2.5.5.8 Plant Acceptance                                                                                                                                       (1
2.5.5.9 PLN Inspection & Interconnection
0c
2.5.5.10 Project Completion                                                                                         7l30
2.6 BonelCamming Project                                               --
Page 6 of 114



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                  1998                  1999                  2000                   2001
Task Name                                               Q1   Q:   Q3  0Q4   Q I  Q2   Q3   0 Q4   Q1   Q2   Q3   0 Q4   01   Q2   Q3  0Q4    Q1  I Q2   Q3  Q4
2.6.1 Feasibility                                 r-
2.6.1.1 Technical Definition
2.6.1.2 Environmental Compliance Report (ECR)
2.6.1.3 ECR Approval by Bank/PSG           5/1/97
2.6.1.4 Financing & Business Plan
2.6.1.5 Preliminary Finance Commitment
2.6.1.6 Optimization Analysis
2.6.1.7 Feasibility Documentation
2.6.2 Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)
2.6.2.1 PPA Application Preparation/Submission
2.6.2.2 PPA Evaluation by PLN
2.6.2.3 PPA Approval                               /19/97
2.6.3 Financing Agreement
2.6.3.1 Loan Application Preparation/Submission
2.6.3.2 Loan Negotiation
2.6.3.3 Loan Approval                                11/17/97
2.6.4 Procurement
2.6.4.1 Bid Document Preparation
2.6.4.2 Issue Bid Documents                            12/16/97
2.6.4.3 Bid Closing
2.6.4.4 Bid Evaluation       _                _
2.6.4.5 Contract Award                                      2/25/                                                                                          cm|
2.6.5 Construction, Erection & Commissioning
__             ________   ___                                              __        _ _      .__       _  __       ____          _                                 x
2.6.5.1 Ordering                                                                                                                                            0 _.
2.6.5.2 Manufacture                                                                    ic
2.6.5.3 Civil Works
Page 7 of 14



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                 1998                 1999              .2000                   2001
Task Name                                            Q           Q    Q4 Q    Q2   Q    Q4 Q    Q2   Q3 _F Q4    Q1   Q2   Q3 _ Q4   Ql   Q2   Q3 1)
2.6.5.4 Environmental Compliance Work                   0         i3
2.6.5.5 Inspection & Shipment
2.6.5.6 E/M for T-G & Boiler Equipment
2.6.5.7 Shakedown & Commissioning
2.6.5.8 Plant Acceptance                                                                                      9114/00
2.6.5.9 PLN Inspection & Interconnection      _                                                                                       - _      _
2.6.5.10 Project Completion                                                                                    9/29/00 *
3 OTHER TURBO-GENERATOR ONLY SPP PROJECTS
3.1 Pagottan/Sudhono
3.2 Sei Semayang
3.3 Pelaihari
_       ~      _____                                                            ______   _
4 OTHER BOILER, TURBO-GENERATOR SPP PROJECTS
4.1 OTHER BOILER, TURBO-GENERATOR SPP PROJEC
4.2 OTHER BOILER, TURBO-GENERATOR SPP PROJEC-
4.3 OTHER BOILER, TURBO-GENERATOR SPP PROJEC_
4.4 OTHER BOILER, TURBO-GENERATOR SPP PROJEC-
4.5 OTHER BOILER, TURBO-GENERATOR SPP PROJEC-
4.6 OTHER BOILER, TURBO-GENERATOR SPP PROJEC-
>
Pg  W
Page 8 of 14



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                   1998                   1999                    2000                   2001
Task Name                                                 Q1   Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   Q3   0 Q4            Q1   02   03   04    1   Q2    3   04   Q11Q21Q31i4
5 MINI-HYDRO SPP PROJECT (1)
5.1 Feasibility
5.1.1 Technical Definition
5.1.2 Environmental Compliance Report (ECR)
5.1.3 ECR Approval by Bank/PSG                              11/18197  -
5.1.4 Financing & Business Plan
5.1.5 Preliminary Finance Commitment
5.1.6 Optimization Analysis
5.1.7 Feasibility Documentation
5.2 Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)
5.2.1 PPA Application Preparation/Submission
5.2.2 PPA Evaluation by PLN                                                --.____ 
5.2.3 PPA Approval                                                     48/98
5.3 Financing Agreement
5.3.1 Loan Application Preparation/Submission
5.3.2 Loan Negotiation
5.3.3 Loan Approval                                                       6/4/98
5.4 Procurement
5.4.1 Bid Document Preparation
5.4.2 Issue Bid Documents                                                   7/3/98  -,
5.4.3 Bid Closing
5.4.4 Bid Evaluation
5.4.5 Contract Award                                                            9/14/98                                                       _                          x
5.5 MH Implementation                                                                                                                I
5.5.1 Inception Report, + Review & Approval                                                                                                                            4 _  _  __  _
5.5.2 Mobilization                                                                       |  * WI9
Page 9 of 14



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                   1998                   1999                    2000                   2001
Task Name                                                 Q1   Q2   Q3  0Q4   Q1   02   Q3LQ4   Q1 Q2 IQ3   Q4   Q1   Q2 I Q3                         04   Ql   Q2   Q31 4
5.5.3 Access & Site Preparation
5.5.4 Headworks Construction
5.5.5 Headrace Canal Construction
5.5.6 Powerhouse Construction
5.5.7 Penstock Installation
5.5.8 MH EM Equipment Manufacture
5.5.9 MH EM Equipment Delivery
5.5.10 Turbine & Generator Installation
5.5.11 Electrical Switchgear Installation
5.5.12 Operator House / Fencing
5.5.13 Testing & Commissioning
5.5.14 Take Over                                                                                                         6/19/00_
6 MINI-HYDRO SPP PROJECT (2)                                                  r
6.1 Feasibility
6.1.1 Technical Definition
6.1.2 Environmental Compliance Report (ECR)
6.1.3 ECR Approval by Bank/PSG
6.1.4 Financing & Business Plan
6.1.5 Preliminary Finance Commitment
6.1.6 Optimization Analysis
6.1.7 Feasibility Documentation
6.2 Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)                                                                                                                                           M
6.2.1 PPA Application Preparation/Submission
6.2.2 PPA Evaluation by PLN                           ::
6.2.3 PPA Approval                                                         6/8/98
Page 10 of 14



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                  1998                   1999                  2000                   2001
Task Name                                                Q1   Q2   03   Q4   Q1 I  Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   Q3  0Q4   Q1   Q2   Q3    4Q1    Q2 I Q314
6.3 Financing Agreement
6.3.1 Loan Application Preparation/Submission
6.3.2 Loan Negotiation
6.3.3 Loan Approval                                                         8/4/98
6.4 Procurement
6.4.1 Bid Document Preparation
6.4.2 Issue Bid Documents                                      9_2_98
6.4.3 Bid Closing
6.4.4 Bid Evaluation
6.4.5 Contract Award                                                            11112198
6.5 MH Implementation                                                                        r
6.5.1 Inception Report, + Review & Approval
6.5.2 Mobilization
6.5.3 Access & Site Preparation
6.5.4 Headworks Construction
6.5.5 Headrace Canal Construction
6.5.6 Powerhouse Construction
6.5.7 Penstock Installation
6.5.8 MH EM Equipment Manufacture
6.5.9 MH EM Equipment Delivery
6.5.10 Turbine & Generator Installation
6.5.11 Electrical Switchgear Installation                                                                                                                         ID >
6.5.12 Operator House / Fencing
- 0
6.5.13 Testing & Commissioning
6.5.14 Take Over                                                                                                         8U17/00* _
Page 11 of 14



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                   1998                   1999                   2000                  2001
Task Name                                                 Q1 Q2   Q3  Q4   Qi Q2  17Q94   Qi   Q2   Q3 |Q4   Qi   Q2   Q3TQ4   Q1   Q2   Q3   Q4
7 MINI-HYDRO SPP PROJECT (3)                                                                                             -
7.1 Feasibility                                          ;                                                   t__
7.1.1 Technical Definition
7.1.2 Environmental Compliance Report (ECR)
7.1.3 ECR Approval by BanklPSG                                   -          4           - 312  8         - ;_                                       .
312 98 4~
7.1.4 Financing & Business Plan
7.1.5 Preliminary Finance Commitment
7.1.6 Optimization Analysis
7.1.7 Feasibility Documentation
7.2 Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)
7.2.1 PPA Application Preparation/Submission
7.2.2 PPA Evaluation by PLN
7.2.3 PPA Approval                                                          8/10/98
7.3 Financing Agreement
7.3.1 Loan Application Preparation/Submission
7.3.2 Loan Negotiation
7.3.3 Loan Approval                                                             10/6/98
7.4 Procurement
7.4.1 Bid Document Preparation
7.4.2 Issue Bid Documents                                                         11/4198                .;
7.4.3 Bid Closing
7.4.4 Bid Evaluation                                                                                                                                                 O ¢
7.4.5 Contract Award                                                                  1/14199                                                                        h :
7.5 MH Implementation                                                                            -r--                                                                    o
7.5.1 Inception Report, + Review & Approval                                                                                                                             CO
7.5.2 Mobilization                                                                                                              - _         _    _    _   _
Page 12 of 14



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                   1998                   1999                    2000                   2001
Task Name                                                 01   02Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1   0 Q2   Q3   04   01   Q2   0 Q3   0 Q4   Q1   Q2   Q3   04   Q1Q2IQ314
7.5.3 Access & Site Preparation
7.5.4 Headworks Construction
7.5.5 Headrace Canal Construction
7.5.6 Powerhouse Construction
7.5.7 Penstock Installation
7.5.8 MH EM Equipment Manufacture
7.5.9 MH EM Equipment Delivery
7.5.10 Turbine & Generator Installation
7.5.11 Electrical Switchgear Installation
7.5.12 Operator House / Fencing
7.5.13 Testing & Commissioning
7.5.14 Take Over                                                                                                                10/1900 * 
8 PROJECT SUPPORT GROUP                                         r       .
8.1 Tendering Phase
8.1.1 TOR / Bid Documents (BD)
8.1.2 WB NOL BD
8.1.3 Shortlist (SL)
8.1.4 WB NOL SL
8.1.5 Tendering
8.1.6 Tender Evaluation
8.1.7 DGEED Approval                                                                                                                                                    (D
8.1.8 DGEED Recommendation to WB (REC)                                                                            _X
8.1.9 WB NOL REC                                                                               __
8.1.10 Contract Negotiations                                        r4_ _            _                                1      __   __._  _
8.1.11 Contract Signing                               .                  _                      _                                                       _
Page 13 of 14



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
1997                  1998                   1999                  2000                   2001
Task Name  QT                                                 Q    Q3 k   Q4    01   Q2   Q3   Q4   01   Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   Q 03   Q4
8.1.12 LTP / Kick Off                      ~~~~~~11126197
8.2 PSG Operation
8.3 Pre-investment Fund Operation by DGEED
9 SPP RESOURCE INFORMATION (DGEED)                                                                                         ..    ........
9.1 Tendering Phase
9.1.1 TOR / Bid Documents (BD)
9.1.2 WB NOL BD
9.1.3 Shortlist (SL)
9.1.4 WB NOL SL
9.1.5 Tendering
9.1.6 Tender Evaluation
9.1.7 PLN Board Approval                                        :
9.1.8 PLN Recommendation to WB (REC)
9.1.9 WB NOL REC
9.1.10 Contract Negotiations
__.~~~~                                               ~        ~~~ ___..  _ __   I....*.*  _ _  _-    ..         _      _      __    _      __..
9.1.11 Contract Signing
______   ___ ____________                        I                   32       7         -__               _____-.__ _____
9.1.12 LTP / Kick Off                                              3/2 7/8 i                                    
9.2 RI TA Phase I Work                                              _         ___           '  __.    ______________
9.2.1 Task 1A Report
9.2.2 Task 1A Comments from PLN & Bank
9.2.3 Task IB Report                                                                _D
9.2.4 Detailed Phase II Workplan                                                                                                                                  f-. __D
9.3 RI TA Phase II Work
9.3.1 Upgrade RI for 35-50 projects                                                                                      4-
9.3.2 RI Collection Plan                                                                                           5/16/ A
Page 14 of 14



67
Annex 3.9
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
Supervision Activities and Schedule
Approximate                                                                      Skills    Staff
Dates/                          Activity - Major Focus                      Needed  Weeks
Duration
10/97     Project launch activities; environmental review; resettlement issues;    EC, EN,    5
2 weeks    review of potential projects                                     RES, RE
2/98      Review of potential projects; site visits                        EC, RE       4
2 weeks
6/98      Environmental review, resettlement issues; review of potential   EC, EN,    5
2 weeks    projects                                                          RES, RE
10/98     Review of potential projects, site visits; Review of PLN's PSKSK    EC        3
2 weeks    tariff and power purchase contract implementation
2/99      Review progress of all TA components, environment and resettlement  EC, RE    3
2 weeks    issues
5/99      Review of all components                                         EC, RE       3
3 weeks
10/99      Mid-term review; site visits to selected project sites, in-depth  EC, RE,    3
2 weeks    assessment of all TA components                                  EN, RES
5/00      Site visits; review of DGEED's plan of renewable resource        EC, RE       2
2 weeks    information
10/00     Review of plan for ongoing program of resource information        EC, RE      2
2 weeks    collection and dissemination
5/01      Site visits; TA progress review                                  EC, RE       2
2 weeks
9/01      Implementation Completion Report (ICR) preparation               EC, RE,    6
3 weeks                                                                     EN, RES
Total                                                                                   38
In addition, it is anticipated that 8 SW of time for ongoing supervision from RSI (on disbursement and
audits) would be required as follows:, FY 98 - 2 SW, FY 99 - 2 SW, FY 00 - 2 SW, and FY 01 - 2 SW
EC - Economist; Enterprise and Market Development Specialist; EN - Environmental Specialist; RES - Resettlement Specialist;
RE - Renewable Energy Specialist
* Assumes loan effectiveness date of October 15, 1997, project completion date of April 30, 2001, and loan closing date -f
October 31, 2001.



68                                   Annx 310
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
Outline For Environmental Compliance Report For Biomass Projects
The suggested table of contents to be used for preparing the environmental compliance reports
for the sugar mills is given below:
1.0     Plant description
* Plant location
* Process and operation
* Use of hazardous chemicals
* Water resources and water balance
2.0      Environmental management
3.0      Waste management
4.0      Environmental Compliance
* Administrative compliance
- Hazardous materials and waste oil
* Waste water discharge
* Air emission
* Ambient air quality
* Monitoring schedule
* Solid waste disposal
5.0      Summery of environmental achievements and deficiencies
6.0      Environmental issues of the new power generation unit
7.0      Recommended mitigation measures
* Environmental management
* Waste water discharge
* Air emissions
* Waste management
* Monitoring
8.0      Budget estimate for environmental mitigation



69
Annex 3.11
Page 1 of3
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
GUIDELINES FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
AS REQUIRED FOR ENVIONMENTAL ANALYSIS FOR MINI-HYDRO PROJECTS
These guidelines identify points that would be reviewed in the environmental review (ER) of
mini-hydro projects, including related works on civil, mechanical and electrical engineering to provide
water diversion dams, powerhouses, water intake structures, water conveyance structures, electrical
systems, grid interconnection, etc.
SCOPE OF WORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
Project Plan
I.    Provides a general project plan and its schedule and provide two maps drawn to scale, one of the
general area and one for the project area.
Climate
2.     Describe climate type, and meteorological data for temperature, rainfall (seasonal), wind
(direction, speed, seasonal).
Geology
3.    Describe land morphology, topography and geologic structure.  Is project located in an
earthquake zone, if so, provide quantitative data for the frequency and intensity of earthquakes.
Hydrology
4.     Provide river stream flow rates (monthly maxima and minima from historical records).
5.     Provide data area describing water availability in all seasons and if available, give surface and
groundwater quality data during all seasons. Indicate surface and groundwater recharge areas, all uses of
water (including irrigation, industrial and other uses), sources of water for drinking, bathing, clothes
washing.
6.    If the water availability for the different uses is impaired by the project, describe the impact and
propose mitigation measures to provide this water at the same quality.
7.    Describe river flow disruption during the dry season caused by the project. Describe high
sedimentation during construction and immediately after construction and measures proposed to mitigate
the situation. Describe the impacts on aquatic organisms during construction (with high sedimentation)
and after implementation of the project.
8.    A minimum flow of 100 liters/second should be maintained in the bypassed river section during
normal plant operation.



70                                    Annex 3.11
Page 2 of 3
Land and Soil
9.     Describe land stability, adaptability, layout and use, land allotment, protected lands and soil
types, structures and texture.
10.    Does the project has an impact on the land stability? If so, describe measures to stabilize the
land.
Flora and Fauna
l.    Describe types of flora and fauna (land and water), and types of protected flora and fauna.
12.    Describe impact of projects on wildlife.
13.    Are surveys available describing endangered biological species that might be threatened by the
proposed mini-hydro power plant (MHPP) ?
Health
14.    What are local health facilities and are there surveys of communicable diseases in the local
communities that could be affected especially during the construction phase of the project.
15.    Will imported labor force be checked on communicable diseases?
16.    What will be the impact of the project on water-borne diseases and parasites. Especially for
those sections of the rivers that will fall dry during construction periods or that the project will fully use
available river water.
Construction
17.    Provide a list of project activities, including construction, land clearing, land excavation, access
road construction, transmission line installation, etc..
18.    Provide an estimate of the size of the area used for the project activities, including the main
structures, road, transmission lines, and penstocks. Indicate what percentage of the area, allocated for the
project, will be restored to conditions prevailing prior to commencement of construction activities.
Restored land should not be fenced and/or considered the developer's property.
19.    List the heavy equipment to be used in the project construction activities.
20.    Describe the impact of this equipment on exiting roads and measures to be taken to repair any
damage.
21.    Describe in a general way the various building materials, mainly construction aggregates, to be
used (type, quantity or volume), where these materials are to be found and how collected, their means of
being transported to the site and their storage and the final disposal system for any wastes generated.
22.    Describe the environmental impacts on the sites where these materials are collected, or quarried.
23.    Describe how the  MHPP facilities will be operated, including any special environmental
management controls.
24.    Describe the types of equipment used in operating the generating systems, including giving the
plant's capacity rating.
25.    Describe fully the environmental impact of the construction activities.



71                                   Annex 3.11
Page 3 of 3
26.    Describe the number of construction workers and the education and expertise required, whether
or not these workers can be hired locally, where they will reside during construction and their ages and
sex.
27.    Describe any training that will be given to workers.
28.    Describe the number of operating employees and the education and expertise required, and
whether some people can be hired locally.
29.    Describe any training that will be given to operators.
30.    Describe noise intensity around the power house, how much it is over ambient noise levels and
what measures will be taken to mitigate a noise problem.
31.    Describe any existing activities adjacent or near the project that could have a positive or negative
effect on the project.
32.    Do project plans provide for an adequate buffer between project (construction and operation) and
any conflicting adjacent land uses? What mitigation is planned for such cases (vegetative screening)?
Cultural-socio-economic-aesthetic impacts
33.    Describe population profiles (age, sex, education, religion, income, health), attitude and
perception of the community toward development, condition of the socio-culture heritage and other
relevant information.
34.    Describe the area's archaeological, aesthetic and cultural resources that might be threatened by
the MHPP.
35.    Describe cultural impacts (including on local religion, on local archeological treasures and loss
of riparian vegetation used for artisan or medicinal purposes).
36.    Describe impacts on sources of livelihood, income and distribution of income, with special
attention to women and to vulnerable groups.
37.    Describe any aesthetic impacts, such as degradation of the natural setting, loss of locally popular
sites for rest and relaxation, etc.
38.    Describe any other social impacts, such as loss of recreational sites or play areas, interference
with local pedestrian traffic, creation of accident hazards for children, etc.
39.    Describe social and sanitary facilities that will be provided for the construction camp, identifying
agencies responsible for implementation. Evaluate social impacts of imported work force.
Environmental management and impact mitigation plan
40.    Develop an environmental management and impact mitigation plan for the construction period
and plant operation, to address all impacts listed above, identifying agencies responsible for
implementation. The plan may be summarized in a table form listing all mitigation measures against the
appropriate impacts.
Note: It should be noted that not all the impacts mentioned will be present in all the MHPP projects
under consideration. If some do not exist the ER should mention this. Some other impacts could also be
quite positive.



72
Annex 3.12
Page 1 of 13
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
GENERAL POLICY
FOR LAND ACQUISITION, COMPENSATION AND RESETTLEMENT
CONCERNING
MEDIUM AND SMALL-SCALE POWER GENERATION PROJECTS
1. GENERAL
Compensation and resettlement policy follows from the national regulations on land acquisition
(Keppres 55/93). The purpose of Keppres 55 and this policy is to ensure that persons whose
land, house or other assets, means of livelihood, business, jobs and environment are adversely
affected, are adequately compensated and do not experience any decline in their living
standards. The principles and objectives of this policy are stated in the following sections.
The project developer will also promote public understanding of the process adopted for
acquisition of land and other affected assets through community information campaign, public
awareness programs, community level assistance, and the establishment of grievance
procedures and local level field monitoring to help address any problem experienced by
communities affected by projects.
The Policy framework lays down the principles and objectives, eligibility criteria of Project
Affected Persons (PAPs), entitlements, legal and institutional framework, modes of
compensation and rehabilitation, peoples participation features and grievance procedures that
will guide the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of PAPs. This policy will be
followed by the sub-project developers concerned with the Renewable Energy Small Power
Projects. This policy would also apply to similar small and medium-scale power generation
projects.
2. DEFINITIONS
The terms used in this document are defined as follows:
(a) 'Project Affected Persons (PAPs)', includes any person or persons who, on account
of the execution of the project, or any of its component or sub-project or part thereof,
would have their (i) right, title, or interest in any house, land (including residential,
agricultural, and under Adat laws) or any other fixed or moveable asset acquired or
possessed, in full or in part, permanently or temporarily; or (ii) business, occupation,
work, place of residence or habitat adversely affected; or (iii) standard of living
adversely affected.
(b) 'PA' means Project Affected Family, and consists of all members of a household
residing under one roof and operating as a single economic unit, who are adversely
affected by the project, or any of its components. For resettlement purposes, project
affectees will be dealt with as members of Project Affected Families (PAFs).



73                                Annex 3.12
Page 2 of 13
(c) RAP' means the detailed Resettlement Action Plan prepared for a project, or its
component, or sub-project where the number of PAPs exceeds 200.
(d) 'Clearance Space' means the space around the conductors formed by the Minimum
clearance to the objects as defined by the Regulation of the Minister of Mines and
Energy for loss and Damage) where no residence or any physical intrusion are
permitted.
(e)  'Easement Area' are the areas where the project developers may requires
temporary passage but no permanent acquisition of land or structure is required.
(f) 'NJOP (Nilai Jual Obyek Pajak)', is the assessed value of an asset for tax purposes.
(g) 'Replacement Cost', are the compensation amounts sufficient to replace affected
assets (land, building, other fixed assets) based on the local market prices at the time of
the acquisition.
3. PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES
The principles outlined in the World Bank's Operational Directives 4.30 have been adopted in
preparing this Policy Framework. In this regard the following principles and objectives would
be applied:
(a) Acquisition of land and other assets, and resettlement of people will be minimized as
much as possible.
(b) Buffer zones, if required, will be delineated based on land ownership, safety and
environmental considerations. All the land in the buffer-zone will be acquired by the
project developers.
(c) All PAPs residing in, working, doing business, or cultivating land, or having rights
over resources within the project area as of the date of the baseline surveys are entitled to
compensation for their lost assets at replacement cost and for rehabilitation measures
sufficient to assist them to improve or at least maintain their pre-project living standards
and incomes. Lack of legal rights to the assets lost will not bar the PAP from entitlement
to such compensation and rehabilitation measures.
(d) Families losing all of their productive assets (farmland, house or business), or in case
when the remaining assets are not economically viable, will be entitled for full
compensation for the entire affected assets at replacement cost and to rehabilitation
assistance that allows them to enhance or at least maintain their standard of living.
(e) The compensation and rehabilitation measures to be provided are: (i) compensation for
easement, temporary acquisition and for assets acquired for clearance space at replacement
cost; (ii) compensation at replacement cost for houses, other structures and fixed assets;
(iii) a replacement land of equal size and of equal residential quality, agricultural
productivity and business potential, as the case may be, at location acceptable to the PAP,
or in case suitable replacement land is not available or at request of the PAPs, cash



74
Annex 3.12
Page 3 of 13
compensation at current market value; (iv) cash compensation to affected businesses,
means of livelihood and incomes; (v) rent allowance and assistance is finding alternate
rental accommodation to tenant PAP; (vi) transport allowance and dislocation assistance
during transition; and (vii) rehabilitation measures and income restoration programs such as
vocational training, credit facilities,  job opportunities and other assistance for self-
employment as determined suitable for affected PAPs.
(f) Replacement agricultural land, premise/business plot will be as close as possible to the
land that was lost and/or acceptable to the PAPs. All replacement land for agriculture,
residential and businesses will be provided with secured tenure status and without any
additional cost, taxes, surcharge to the PAPs at the time of transfer.
(g)  The resettlement transition period will be minimized and compensation, and
resettlement where applicable, and other assistance will be provided to the PAPs no later
than one month prior to the expected start-up date of works in the respective Project site.
(h) Plans for acquisition of land and other assets and provision of rehabilitation measures
will be carried out in consultation with the PAPs.
(i) The previous level of community services and resources will be maintained or
improved after resettlement.
(j) Financial and physical resources for resettlement and rehabilitation will be made
available as and when required.
(k) Resettlement programs will include adequate institutional arrangements to ensure
effective and timely design, planning, consultation and implementation of compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation measures.
(1) Adequate arrangements will be made for effective and timely supervision, internal and
external monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the resettlement and
rehabilitation measures.
(m) Acquisition of assets, compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities for a
segment/section or phase (except where long-term rehabilitation measures such as
vocational training recommended) will be completed at least one month prior to the
initiation of construction work under the respective segment/section or phase thereof.
4. REPORTING AND DOCUMENTATION
Based on the Land Acquisition Assessment and information collected at the pre-feasibility
or environmental screening stage, on the scale and degree of impact of the project, its component
or sub-project, in terms of extent of land acquisition and other assets required and the number of
persons affected, marginally or severely, a decision will be taken on the subsequent
requirements for surveys, data collection and report preparation.



Annex 3.12
Page 4 of 13
4.1  Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan
1.   In case the impact of the project is marginal to severe such that less than 200 persons
(about 40-50 families) are affected by the project, a Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan
(LAP) for each project, sub-project, or component will be prepared and submitted to the Bank
for review.
2.   In case the impact of the project is only marginal  i.e. only part assets (farmland,
residential land, house/structure) are affected, project does not result in any displacement of
affected families, and the remaining assets are viable for continued use without any adverse
impact on the living standards or incomes of affected families, the Land Acquisition and
Compensation Plan (LAP) will include : (a) the basic socio-economic data and inventory of
affected assets; (b) compensation entitlements; (c) procedures used to assess compensation; and
(d) a time-bound action plan for implementation.
3.   However, if the project results in displacement of some families the Land Acquisition and
Compensation Plan (LAP) will additionally include; (a) rehabilitation entitlements, if necessary;
(b) location and area of the replacement agricultural, residential and/or business land to be
provided, if that be the case; (c) a detailed budget and source of funding for various compensation
and rehabilitation measures; and (d) internal monitoring and evaluation.
4.   Compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities will only commence after the Bank
has found the LAP acceptable.
4.2 Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs)
1.   In case the impact of the project is severe such that more than 200 people (40-50 families)
are affected by the Project, its component or sub-project, a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for
each component or sub-project will be prepared in accordance with the provisions of this Policy
Framework. The RAP will be furnished to the Bank for review and approval.
2.   Each RAP, in addition to the information to be provided in LAP will include: (a) a detailed
socio-economic survey comprising baseline data of PAPs;  (b) arrangements for external
monitoring and evaluation by an independent agency; (c) grievance redressal mechanisms; and (d)
detailed information on the site/s for replacement, including socio-economic information about the
host community, if applicable.
3.   Compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities will only commence after the Bank
has found the respective RAP acceptable.
5. INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
5.1 Institutional Framework
1.    Responsibility for implementing the Policy Framework and resulting LAPs or
RAPs is as follows:



76                             Annex 3.12
Page 5 of 13
The overall responsibility for enforcement of the Policy Framework and for
planning and implementing the Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan and RAPs rests
with the project developers. Project developers remain ultimately responsible for ensuring
that people affected by a project, its components or a sub-project receive compensation as
defined in this policy. To ensure that this policy is carried out effectively, the Project
Support Group will designate a resettlement specialist to advise project developers
engaged in any activities requiring land acquisition. The resettlement specialist will
prepare reports to the project developers and to the Bank assessing the effectiveness of
resettlement activities. The Project Support Group will make special efforts to ensure
good community relationships and to promptly address compensation problems and
complaints. The Project Support Group also will ensure that PAPs are afforded
opportunities for active and effective participation in preparation and implementation of
any LAPs or RAPs.
5.2 Legal Framework
All land acquisition in Indonesia is regulated by Presidential Decree (Keppres) 55/93
concerning Land Acquisition for the Development of Public Interest. Additional relevant laws,
policies and regulations include the following:
(a) State Act No. 5 - 1960 concerning Basic Principles on Agraria
(b) State Act No. 5 - 1974 concerning Basic Principles on Administration in The
Region and Elucidation
(c) State Minister / Chief of The National Land Use Agency No. 1 - 1994
(d)   Government Regulation No. 5 - 1993 concerning Environmental Impact
Assessment.
(e)  Ministry of Mines and Energy Regulation 01.P/47/M.PE/1992 concerning
"Clearance Space of High Voltage Overhead Transmission Lines and Extra High Voltage
Overhead Transmission Lines for the Supply of Electric Power".
(f) WHO Recommendations IRPS 1990/INIRC Guidelines of Limits of Exposure to
50/60 Hz Electric and Magnetic Fields (EMF).
6. ENTITLEMENT POLICY
1.   Entitlements for compensation and rehabilitation assistance to different categories of PAFs
is described in the following sub-sections and presented in a compensation matrix in Table 6.1 of
this section:
A. PAPs losing Agricultural Land



77                               Annex 32
Page 6 of 13
(a) The general mechanism for compensation of lost agricultural land will be through
provision of "land for land" arrangements of equal size, equivalent productivity and at
location acceptable to the PAP where significantly large or entire land holding is affected
by the project. In case suitable land is not available, cash compensation at current market
value will be provided. However, when the portion of the land to be lost represents 25 % or
less of the total area of the land-holding, cash compensation at full replacement value, will
be provided to the PAP. In cases where only partial land is affected but the remaining land
becomes economically unviable, the PAP will be entitled to surrender the entire holding
and to compensation for entire holding at full replacement value, or land-for-land option.
(b) The replacement agricultural land will be provided to the PAP free of any tax, transfer
costs, registration fee or charges.
(c) PAPs whose land is temporarily taken by the works under the Project will be
compensated at replacement cost for their net loss of income, damaged assets, crops and
trees, as the case may be.
(d) Affected tenants on the agricultural land will be compensated for the market value of
the gross harvest for one year's production or the remaining period of the tenancy
agreement/lease, whichever is greater.
(e) Affected agriculture labor will be compensated for the loss of income and will be paid
compensation equivalent to the six months salary and assisted in getting alternative
employment.
B. PAPs losing Residential or Commercial Land
(a) The general mechanism for compensation of lost residential land will be through
provision of "land for land" arrangements of equal size and at location acceptable to the
PAP where significantly large or entire land-holding is affected by the project. In case,
suitable land is not available, cash compensation at current market value will be provided.
Where the portion of the land to be lost represents 25 % or less of the total area of the land
holding, cash compensation at full replacement value for only the affected portion of the
holding will be provided to the PAP. However, where only partial land is affected but the
remaining land becomes either unviable or in area less than the minimum required under
the prevailing zoning laws, the PAP will be entitled to surrender the entire holding and to
compensation for entire holding at full replacement value, or land-for-land option.
(b) The replacement land for resettlement will be provided in fixed plot sizes according
to the prevailing zoning laws and planning practices. However, if the lost land of PAP is
in size larger than the plot sizes for relocation, a cash compensation to cover the difference
of the area will be given to the PAP.
(c) The replacement land will be provided to the PAP free of any tax, transfer costs,
registration fee or charges at the time of transfer.
(d) PAPs whose land is temporarily taken by the works under the Project, will be
compensated at replacement cost for their net loss of income and damaged assets, as the
case may be.



78                                Annex 3.12
Page 7 of 13
C. PAPs losing Houses/Structures
(a) The mechanism for compensating loss of residential and other structures will be cash
compensation reflecting full replacement cost of the structures, without depreciation.
(b) If the house or structure is only partially being affected by the Project, the PAP will be
entitled to cash compensation for the affected portion of the structure and assistance in the
restoration of the remaining structure for its continued use. However, if the remaining
structure is rendered unviable or in area less than the minimum house size under the
prevailing zoning laws, the PAP will be entitled to surrender the entire structure and for
compensation for entire structure at full replacement cost without depreciation.
(c) Tenants, who have leased a house / structures for residential or other purposes and
affected by the project, will be provided with a cash grant equivalent to one month's salary
or six months rental allowance, and will be assisted in identifying alternative rental
accommodation.
D. PAPs losing business
(a) The mechanism for compensating loss of business will be: (i) the provision of
alternative business site of equal size and location with good accessibility to customers and
satisfactory to the PAP, or cash compensation at full replacement value, if suitable
replacement land is not available; (ii) cash compensation for lost business structure
reflecting full replacement cost of the structures, without depreciation; and (iii) cash
compensation for the loss of income during the transition period.
(b) PAPs whose business premises are affected by the project and are required to be
relocated either because the entire premises and/or structures are affected or the remaining
premises and/or structures are rendered un-useable, if they so desire, will be given
alternate business premises of minimum size acceptable under the zoning laws. However,
if the existing affected business premises are larger in area than the minimum plot
provided at relocation site a cash compensation to cover the difference in the area will be
paid to the PAPs.
2.    PAPs will also be provided with compensation at full replacement cost, without
depreciation for any other fixed assets affected in part or in full by the project, such as water
wells, electric and water connections.
3.    In cases where community infrastructure such as schools, factories, water resources,
roads, sewage system or electrical supply is damaged, project developers will ensure that these
would be restored or repaired as the case may be, at no cost to the community.
4.    PAPs without any legal title or ownership right to the land they occupy will be
compensated for all their lost assets such as house/structure, fixed assets, shop/kiosk at full
replacement cost and provided assistance in finding suitable relocation site.
5.    PAPs entitled for relocation will be provided transport allowance or full assistance for
transportation, and re-establishment of their house or business structures.



Annx 3.12
Page 8 of 13
6.    All PAPs affected by the project will be entitled to the rehabilitation measures including
income restoration programs, training to improve skills and other assistance for self-employment.
These rehabilitation measures would specifically focus severely affected (displaced) PAPs,
vulnerable groups, itinerant workers, small businesses and those either below the poverty line or
those severely affected by the project and are likely to fall below the poverty line. Detailed
baseline survey and socio-economic data will identify such vulnerable groups and the scope and
need for specific rehabilitation measure will be assessed during the project implementation stage
in consultation with the PAPs. At least 30% of such rehabilitation assistance measures will be
reserved for women.
7.    PAPs affected by easement will be paid easement compensation as negotiated or a
minimum equivalent to 10% value of the affected asset.
8.    PAPs affected by the clearance space restrictions will be compensated at   their
replacement cost.
7. PEOPLES PARTICIPATION
1.   The PAPs will participate throughout the various stages of the planning and implementation
of Land Acquisition and Compensation Plans and RAPs. For these purposes and prior to the
preparation of these documents, PAPs will be informed of the provisions of this Policy
Framework through an effective public information campaign and public meetings.
2.     Where more than 200 persons are affected by the project, each household & PAP will be
fully informed by the project developers of their entitlements and rehabilitation choices under the
respective RAP. Project developers will print a short 'Public Information Booklet' to include
project objectives, likely impacts of the project on the community, compensation entitlement
criteria, and grievance redressal mechanism. The booklet will be distributed to all the affected
households as part of public participation and information campaign.



Annex 3.12
Page 9 of 13
Table 6.1: Compensation Matrix
Type of Loss            Application             Entitled Person                            Compensation
Arable land       Less than 25 percent of land   Farmer/title holder  Cash compensation for lost land at replacement cost.
holding lost, the remaining land
economically viable
More than 25 percent of land  Farmer/title holder  Land for land or compensation in cash. Compensation by receiving a
holding lost OR where less than                   new parcel of land of equivalent size and crop productivity and free of
25% holding lost but the                          taxes, registration and transfer cost; at location acceptable to PAP; and
remaining land becomes                            with long-term security of tenure.
economically unviable                             Eligible for rehabilitation assistance.
Transfer/shifting allowance.
Tenant/lease       Cash compensation equivalent to the market value of gross harvest for
holder             one year or for the remaining period of tenancy agreement, whichever is
greater.
Agricultural labor   Cash compensation equivalent to 6 months salary and assistance in
getting alternative employment.
00
Temporary acquisition or      Title holder        A minimum cash compensation equivalent to 10% value of the affected
easement                                          asset.
2.     Residential land    Less than 25% of land holding    Occupant/title  Compensation in cash at market value.
lost and remaining land viable    holder
for present use
More than 25% holding affected   Occupant/title  Land for land or cash compensation. Replacement land of minimum plot
OR where less than 25% holding  holder           of acceptable size under the zoning laws or a plot of equivalent size,
affected but the remaining area                  whichever is larger, in a nearby resettlement area with adequate physical
becomes smaller than minimally                   and social infrastructure. When the affected holding is larger than the
accepted under the zoning laws                   relocation plot, cash compensation to cover the difference in area.
and unviable for continued use                   Replacement land to be free from taxes, registration and transfer costs.
Eligible for rehabilitation assistance.
Transfer/shifting allowance.
Temporary acquisition         Title holder       Cash compensation for the net loss of income and damaged assets or at
10% of the value of the affected assets.



Annex 3.12
Page 10 of 13
3.      Commercial land   Plots used for business partially    Businessman/title    Compensation in cash at market value.
affected, limited loss          holder
Plots used for business severely    Businessman/title    Cash or land for land. Replacement land of sufficient size for business
affected. Remaining area        holder               continuation in market area of resettlement area or at location comparable
insufficient for continued use                      to previous site. When the affected premises are larger than the relocation
plot, cash compensation at market value to cover the difference in area.
Transfer/shifting allowance.
Eligible for rehabilitation assistance.
4.      Structures         Structures partially affected but   Owner            Compensation in cash for affected portion of the structure and other fixed
the remaining structure viable                       assets, and assistance in restoration of the remaining structure.
for continued use.
Entire structure affected OR    Owner/occupant      Compensation in cash for entire affected structure and other fixed assets
where structures partially                          (wells, electric and water connections etc.) at replacement cost, without
affected such that the remaining                    depreciation.
structure is unviable for                           Transfer/shifting allowance.
continued use.                                      Eligible for rehabilitation assistance.
Tenant              Cash compensation equivalent to one month's salary or six months' rental
allowance.
Assistance in alternate rental accommodation.
5.      Loss of            Temporary or permanent loss of   Affected PAPs      Cash compensation for the loss of business, incomes & wages during the
business/incomes   business/ incomes/ employment                       transition period.
or employment                                                          Eligible for rehabilitation assistance.
6.      Standing crops     Crops affected by land          Farmer/title holder   Compensation in cash at market value.
acquisition                     or tenant/lease
or temporary                    holder
acquisition/easement
7.      Trees              Trees lost                      Person occupying    Compensation in cash calculated on the basis of type, age and productive
the land where      value of affected trees.
trees are located



82
Annex 3.12
Page 11 of 13
8. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
8.1 Implementation Schedule
1.   A detailed implementation schedule of various activities to be undertaken will be included
in each LAP and RAP.
2.   Acquisition of affected assets, payment of compensation and furnishing of other
rehabilitation entitlements (in cash or in kind), and relocation if that be the case, will be completed
at least one month prior to the scheduled start-up date of construction work on the respective
project site.
8.2 Complaints and Grievances
1.    Complaints and grievances related to any aspect of the LAP or RAP, including
inventory of assets and value of the lost assets, will be handled as follows:
(a) As a first stage, PAPs will present their complaints and grievances to the
resettlement specialist designated by the Project Support Group.
b) If the matter remains unresolved, the PAP may then submit his complaint for
consideration by the local government or higher authorities as stipulated under
Keppres 55/93. PAPs will be exempt from, or reimbursed for, all administrative
and legal fees incurred in grievance redressal procedures.
8.3 Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
1.    Implementation of the LAP or RAP will be regularly supervised and monitored by
the resettlement specialist designated by the Project Support Group. Findings will
recorded in quarterly reports to be furnished to the project developers and to the Bank.
2.    Internal monitoring and supervision will:
(a) Verify that a baseline survey of all PAPs has been carried out and that the
valuation of assets lost or damaged, and the provision of compensation,
resettlement and other rehabilitation entitlements has been carried out in
accordance with the provisions of this Policy Framework and the respective LAP
or RAP.
(b) Oversee that the LAP or RAP is implemented as designed and approved.
(c) Verify that funds for implementing the LAP or RAP are provided by the
project developers in a timely manner and in amounts sufficient for their
purposes, and that such funds are used in accordance with the provisions of the
LAP or RAP.



83                            Annex 3.12
Page 12 of 13
3.    An independent agency or agencies will be retained by the Project Support Group
to carry out external monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of RAPs. The
independent agencies will be NGOs, academic or research institutions or independent
consulting firms with qualified and experienced staff and with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.
4.    In addition to verifying the information furnished in the internal supervision and
monitoring reports prepared by the resettlement specialist designated by the Project
Support Group, the external monitoring agency will visit a sample of at least 20% of
PAFs in each relevant location on an annual basis to:
(a)  Determine whether the procedures for PAPs participation and delivery of
compensation and other rehabilitation entitlements has been done in accordance with
this Policy Framework and the respective RAP.
(b)  Assess if the Policy Framework objective of enhancement or at least
restoration of living standards and income levels of PAPs have been met,
(c)   Gather qualitative indicators of the social and economic impacts of Project
implementation on the PAPs.
(d)  Suggest modification in the implementation procedures of the RAPs to achieve
the principles and objectives of this Policy Framework.
9. COSTS AND BUDGETS
1.     Each LAP or RAP will include detailed cost estimates for compensation and
other resettlement entitlements and relocation of PAPs, if that be the case, with a
breakdown by category of PAPs; agricultural, residential and business land; houses,
structures, and other fixed assets affected; rehabilitation assistance, transport and other
allowances; phases of the project and by financial year. The cost estimates will make
adequate provision for contingencies.
2.    In the case of cost overruns due to unforeseen circumstances or delays, the project
developer will allocate additional funds as may be necessary.
10. IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES
1.    The project developers will acquire land (agricultural, residential, commercial),
houses or structures that are being affected, partially or entirely, by power station or sub-
station; and other fixed assets such as trees and buildings which fall within the 'buffer-
zone' at replacement cost as defined in this Policy Framework. Easement fee or



84
Page 13 of 13
compensation for temporary acquisition of land, where necessary, will also be paid at
replacement cost.
2.    The procedures adopted for land acquisition and compensation will be as follows:
-Guidance and Counseling : The Project Team, in co-operation with the head of
village and sub-district, will arrange a special public meeting with the PAPs
regarding the project and to elicit their views and concerns. 'Public Information
Booklet' will be distributed to PAFs.
-Public consultation with the PAPs will be conducted and will involve related
government agencies.  The project developers will provide all necessary
information about the project and related matters, including the timing and
procedures for compensation assessment and payment.
-The staking out the boundaries for the required land will be carried out.
-Detailed mapping of the existing and affected land-holding will be prepared.
-Following the preparation of maps, complete inventory of affected including land,
houses and other structures, trees, crops, fixed assets etc. will be prepared.
-Project developers will prepare a list of compensation for land and other assets
based on the principle of replacement cost in accordance with this policy
framework. Any transaction cost, as defined in this policy will be provided by the
project developers. All records of asset inventory and compensation assessment
will be kept and reported, and made available to the affected people.
-The final compensation amount will be negotiated between both parties to reach
final agreement so that the compensation will be at replacement cost.
-The final list of affected assets and compensation will be approved and signed by
both the parties. Grievances in regard to the compensation and other matters will
be resolved following the procedures outlined in this policy.
- The final step will be the payment of compensation directly to the land owners
and other affected persons as agreed between the project developers and the PAPs.



85
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
Outline Of Contents
1  INTRODUCTION
Sub-project Description: Objectives, main components,
Physical, social and economic characteristics of the sub-project
Describe the types of impacts of the sub-project: summary description of the extent of
acquisition of land and other assets and its expected adverse social impacts
Indicate measures taken to minimize adverse impacts
2. SOCIO-ECONOMIC SURVEY AND RESULTS
Description of Project Affected Families (PAFs) including their spatial distribution
Socio-Economic characteristics of PAFs: Household size; age-sex structure;
employment types & place of work; major and supplementary sources of income,
tenure status (land and house/structures) total and affected land and building areas,
description of house/structure, construction type, condition etc.; monthly incomes of
all household members (from full time and part-time jobs); place of work, location of
school, and time taken to from place of work/school, expenditure pattem (rent, food,
travel, health, house, etc); amount of rent paid by tenants/lessee, quantity and
category of other fixed assets affected by the sub-project.
Identify any vulnerable groups present in the project area
Categories and numbers of PAFs by type and degree of impacts
Prevailing market prices for different types of assets (land, trees, crops etc.) within
and in the vicinity of the project areas, NJOP and PU prices for land and structures
3. COMPENSATION POLICY AND ENTITLEMENT CRITERIA
Description of objectives of compensation policy
Existing by-laws, acts etc. upon which RAP is based
Eligibility policy for PAPs, cut-off date for eligibility
Indicate the compensation entitlements for each category of PAPs
Preparation of 'compensation matrix'
Methods used for assessment of compensation and determining 'replacement cost' of
lost assets
4. RESETTLEMENT PLAN (Applicable only when settlement of displaced families
necessary)
Description of alternative relocation sites and their characteristics and suitability for
resettlement of affected families
Consultation with PAPs in selection of resettlement alternatives and for relocation
sites, where applicable



86
Annex 3.13
Page 2 of 3
Socio-Economic data of host population, where applicable
Description of implementation procedures: land acquisition, payment of
compensation, physical relocation
5. REHABILITATION AND INCOME RESTORATION
Existing skills and employment pattern of PAPs
Feasibility analysis of income generation programs at the resettlement site(s) or at the
existing location during and post-project period
Training needs of PAPs in the context of the employment opportunities and market
demands in the post-project situations
Access to credit and micro-enterprise support to meet PAPs' needs for capital and
other inputs for rehabilitation of livelihoods
Institutional arrangements to manage rehabilitation and income restoration programs
on a sustainable basis
6. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION
Consultation with and role of stakeholders at different stages of the project
Participation of households in implementation, public information booklet
Institutional mechanism to facilitate participation
Indicate procedures used for PAPs' participation at various stages in the project
7. GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL MECHANISM
Existing and project specific mechanisms, procedures for filing complaints, hearing
and decisions
Process and time-table proposed for consultation with stakeholders, particularly with
the project affectees
Institutional set-up for grievance redress
8. ORGANIZATIONAL SET-UP
Organization structure of the institution responsible for management, supervision and
implementation of R&R activities
Organogram indicating the organizational set-up of the agency responsible for
implementation of R&R and its relationship with other related agencies, both
governmental and non-governmental
Resources available for R&R including staffing, technical and financial resources
Budget for R&R agency, including extent of financial authority
Co-ordination mechanisms between R&R agency, local administration, line agencies,
PAPs and NGOs
9. MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
Monitoring indicators
Institutional responsibilities, frequency of monitoring
Participatory monitoring - PAPs and NGOs
Procedures for remedial actions
Monitoring reports



87                         Annex 3.13
Page 3 of 3
1Q. COST ESTIMATES AND BUDGET
Aggregate costs for each type of asset loss
Costs for rehabilitation and income restoration programs, initial capital investment,
sources of funds, recurring costs for continued provision of rehabilitation services and
mitigation measures
Costs by different phases of implementation and/or financial year
Costs of administrative overheads/implementation management
Contingencies etc.
Sources of funding of costs for various R&R components
Budgetary process and timing of expenditure
11. IMPLEMENTATION MECHANISM
Implementation procedures proposed for delivery of key elements and explanatory
notes to clarify salient points where necessary.
- land-for-land provisions, including the location, quality, and present economic
use of the land
- modality of compensation payment and transparency
- provision made to compensate tenants/share-croppers, squatters and others with
temporary tenure
- transitional arrangements during relocation
- provisions made to compensate the loss of incomes and livelihood of PAPs
either temporary or permanently
- acquisition of common property (adat land) and shared resources, procedures for
assessment of compensation for such resources and properties
Preparation of schedule for implementation of RAP, description of different activities,
sequence
Time-table for implementation of different activities in relation to the implementation
of project
Identification of critical path and key elements in the implementation process which
will have significant bearing on the implementation schedule
APPENDICES TO RAP
A. Database of Relocatees
B. Locational Maps
C. Other background information



INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
Economic Cost Benefit Analysis: Sugarmill Cogeneration
[US$ million, 1996 Prices]
COSTS                             BENEFITS
Total                               Off-season        Enirg    Tariff      NET
YEAR Investment 0 & M Cost                 | Bagasse  TO L Sales to  Rvenuer+ BENEFITS
Cost            Production   Cost    agosse  COSTS       ConsumersCnue
Cost      CosumersSurplus
US$ mill  US$ mill    Gwh    USS mill  US$ mill US$ mill  Gwh    US$ mill   USS mill
1     6.67      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    6.67     0.0      0.00       -6.67
2     2.59      0.46     20.62     0.10     0.04    3.19    17.5      3.15       -0.04
3     0.00      0.46     61.86     0.30     0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46        8.66
4     0.00      0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6     9.46        8.66
5     0.00      0.46     61.86     0.30     0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46        8.66                       X
6     0.00      0.46     61.86     0.30     0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46        8.66                       X
7     0.00      0.46     61.86     0.30     0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46        8.66
8     0.00      0.46     61.86     0.30     0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46        8.66
9     0.00      0.46     61.86     0.30     0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46        8.66
10    0.00      0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46       8.66
11    0.00      0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46       8.66
12     0.00     0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46       8.66
13     0.00     0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46       8.66
14    0.00      0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46       8.66
15     0.00     0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46       8.66
16     0.00     0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46       8.66
17     0.00     0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46       8.66
18     0.00     0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46       8.66
19     0.00     0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46       8.66
19     0.00     0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46       8.66
20     0.00     0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46       8.66
21     0.00     0.46     61.86     0.30      0.04    0.80    52.6      9.46       8.66 
NPV    8.02      3.09     379.68    1.87      0.23    13.20   322.73    58.09      44.89
IERR                                                                                74%



89
Annex 5.1
INDONESIA
RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
1.    Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
2.     Spreadsheets underlying IERR calculations
3.     Sugar Sector Environmental Assessment






MAP SECTION






IBRD 25506R
$_-THAILAND                                                                                   40 RE2v   L         S      .\ -                                                                  .
-Bendc Aceh             '           NSouth Crina See                                                                            0                     I                                    INDONESIA
BRUNEI                                                       f                                  PLN REGIONS
MALAYSIA
Meden        KUALA                                                                                                                                                      V)I  PLN's WILAYAH NUMBERS
LUMPUR  I                                                                                                                                                        V/LAYAH BOUNDIARIES
e    WILAYAH HEADQUARTERS
C-                       ,jJ S SNGAPORE 4 Menw 0    PROVINCE CAPITALS
M~~nsdo        K,                       -      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
PACIFIC OCEAN
SUMATERA          C-             Pntonko                                 Semrin                       r ,AiAHERA    CIH
tedscg                           KALIMANTAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TL
V'>vioa> S                                ., 'U    ES -T                                                                                                               . , . CY  -  joy-purs
BANGKA                                VI                                                                                                                             -    
\' ' *E'Ia ~ TU '\NG*                                         Vill, S                                                                                IRIAN JAYA
X                                      Benie~~~~~~~~~8o1rmosin~  N-S  '                                    V3R     Ambon CERAMI            >-----.    ->
',                                                         Ben -rmSemSoo- The-e1l
5 X _ ~~~~~~~~~~~Jo,c, Sea                                                     Powe Plant I / Z
Besai Hydr El  c,      /                                                   Ujrngpondong 0                 3UTON
PewerP,snt             J C  JAKARTA
yJ~~~~~~ th --. -IH
r s ~~_Sem ... ng                                                                   H.~- 
-B..dsrsg JAWA                     ~~0lNMA
AwA Su-                                                                                  -A,uft,raSea
INDIAN  OCEAN             '~   JAWA  Scoabop'NIMAR,
LI  SUMaAWAPORS'-- 
ILESrJ 0   10   200    300    40    500
Deonposor
The boundaries, colors, denominations ond  any  other inform, tion                                                                Kupng.        TIMOR                    kJomnmrS 0      200      *00      000      00
sho-.n on this mop do not imply, on the port of The World Bank                                                 SUMfA                    0
Group,  any judgment on the legal stotus of any territory, or any                                                              _'rc*
endorsement or occeptonce of such boundaries.                                                                        Cr                                                 1-;- - ' _--- ' AUSTRALIA  -v
ros,                                                                                                                                                    Ninr  11  \\   _   \  ,_    . 2
MAY 1994









IMAGING                FA 31 e
Report No.:       16266  IND
Type:    SAP



