Report No. PIC1676
Project Name                   Indonesia-Renewable Energy Small r() N
Power Project
Region                         East Asia and Pacific
Sector                         Electric Power and Other Energy
Power ID                       IDPA42882
Borrower                       Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agencies          1.   State Electricity Corporation (PLN)
Jl. Trunojoyo Blok Ml/135
Jakarta, Indonesia.
2.   Private Sector
Date Prepared                  January 1997
Appraisal Date                 June 1996; post-appraisal November 1996
Projected Board Date           May 1997
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The specific objectives of the project are: (i) catalyze the rapid
penetration of grid and off-grid based renewable energy projects in the
private sector -- including cooperatives and NGOs -- and by PLN, within
the framework of a least cost rural electrification strategy; (ii)
facilitate participation by the private sector in advancing renewable
energy commercialization through the creation of a sustainable "market
conforming" framework; (iii) promote environmentally sound energy
resource development in Indonesia and to reduce the energy sector's
dependence on fossil fuels; (iv) strengthen Indonesia's institutional
capacity to sustain renewable energy development.
The project objective categories are: infrastructure, private
sector development, environmentally sustainable development.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project consists of three components: (i) Small Private Power
(SPP) Component: Private sector renewable energy based small electricity
generation projects -- biomass cogeneration, mini-hydro, mini-geothermal
-- selling to a regional PLN grid under the published Small Power
Purchase Tariff (SPPT), and standardized power purchase contract; (ii)
PLN Component: PLN owned and operated renewable based small electricity
generation projects: (a) construction of a geothermal power plant rated
at about 3 MW at Ulumbu, Flores: and (b) about 10 mini-hydro plants (15
MW in aggregate), in Eastern Indonesia; and (iii) Technical Assistance:
About $5 million GEF grant, which would provide for funds to facilitate
the financing of: (a) pre-investment costs ; (ii) mini-hydro and mini-
geothermal resource assessments and dissemination of such resource
information to prospective developers; (iii) technical assistance to
coordinate and manage activities (i) and (ii) listed above; and (iv)
capacity building and institutional development required to support



mainstreaming within PLN, the design, planning, implementation and
management of a sizeable and growing small power program for rural
electrification, based on renewable energy.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The proposed credit would provide funds onlent at market rates
through commercial banks to pre-identified small power projects to be
developed by the private sector. The commercial banks will bear the
commercial risk for the sub-loans. Additionally, funds will be onlent to
PLN for implementing its component of the project.
FINANCING
It is estimated that the total financing requirement for the
project will be approximately US$ 200 million, of which about US$ 6
million is to be sourced from a GEF grant, US$ 92 million from IBRD
funds, and the balance to be financed by the private sector and the
Government/PLN.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
The renewable energy technologies to be utilized in the project are
mini-hydro, mini-geothermal and biomass cogeneration. These are,
mostly, "environmentally clean" and are not expected to pose significant
environmental or resettlement problems. Renewable energy is classified
by the Bank's OD as a"B" project. However, each sub-project will be
carefully examined to avoid adverse environmental impacts. To identify
local environmental impacts, a screening process applying predetermined
criteria, for environment and resettlement, will be used. Existing
industries, or any other developer, that will seek financing through
this project, will have to prove compliance of on-going operations as
well as new components with existing national regulations, to quality as
a potential borrower.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 2 -



