                                               Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                       Report No: 30244




                                     PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
                                        (SCL-4198; WBTF28362)

                                                   ON

                                                    A

                                          LOAN/GEF GRANT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$66.4 MILLION AND SDR3.0 MILLION, RESPECTIVELY

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                FOR THE

                          RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT




                                             October 12, 2004




Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region


 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
 their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
                                Rp 9,205 = US$ 1
                                 (September 2004)

                          At Appraisal ­ September 1996
                                Rp 2,341 = US$ 1

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1st ­ December 31st

                          WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
            1 metric ton                      =      1,000 kilograms (kg)
            1 liter (l)                       =      0.0063 barrels (bbl)
            1 kilometer (km)                  =      0.6215 mile (mi)
            1 kilovot (kV)                    =      1,000 volts (V)
            1 megavolt ampere (MVA)           =      1,000 kilo-volt amperes (kVA)
            1 megawatt (MW)                   =      1,000 kilowatts (kW)


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BAPPENAS    National Development Planning Agency
BPPT        Agency for the Assessment and Application Technology
CO2         Carbon Dioxide
DGEED       Directorate-General of Electricity and Energy Development
DRE         Decentralized Rural Electrification
EA          Environmental Assessment
GEF         Global Environment Facility
GOI         Government of Indonesia
MME         Ministry of Mines and Energy
MOC         Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprises Development
PB          Participating Bank
PCF         Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF)
PLN         State Electricity Corporation
PSG         Project Support Group
PV          Photovoltaic
RE          Rural Electrification
REPELITA    Five-Year Development Program
RESP        Renewable Energy Small Power
TA          Technical Assistance




                       Vice President:       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                     Country Director:       Andrew Steer
                       Sector Director:      Junhui Wu
                   Task Team Leader:         Arun Sanghvi


                                         1

                                    PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE

                                                INDONESIA

         RENEWABLE ENERGY SMALL POWER PROJECT (LOAN 4198-ID; TF28362)


1.       This is the Project Completion Note for the Indonesia Renewable Energy Small Power Project for
which the Board approved Loan 4198-ID and GEF grant TF28362, in the amount of US$66.4 million and
SDR3.0 million, respectively on June 24, 1997. The loan and grant agreements were signed on August 4,
1997. However, the project did not become effective as the financial and economic crisis that hit the
country in 1997 caused the project to be no longer viable. Consequently, the loan and grant agreement
were terminated on July 15, 1998, the effectiveness deadline. In accordance with paragraph 4 of OP13.55
which provides for the preparation of a Project Completion Note (PCN) in lieu of an ICR for a loan that
fails to become effective, this note summarizes the objectives of the Indonesia Renewable Energy Small
Power Project (RESP) and the reasons why this project was not implemented.

2.       The RESP had two set of objectives: National and Global. The national objectives of the RESP
Project were to: (i) facilitate private sector led development of small renewable power projects selling
electricity to a PLN grid on a commercially sustainable basis, within the framework of a least cost rural
electrification strategy; (ii) promote environmentally sound energy resource development in Indonesia
and reduce the energy sector's dependence on fossil fuels; and (iii) strengthen Indonesia's institutional
capacity to sustain renewable energy development. The global environmental objective was to mitigate
emissions of CO2 in Indonesia through the development of renewable energy sources for power
generation. The project was to be funded by a Bank loan of about $66.4 million, combined with a GEF
grant of SDR3.0 million (US$4.0 million equivalent) and private funds of about $70.3 million. The total
project costs were estimated at $141.0 million.

3.       The Project consisted of renewable energy based small power generation projects that were
organized into the (i) Investment component; and (ii) Technical Assistance.

4.       Under the investment component, the projects would be owned and operated by private
developers, who would sell their electricity to PLN under the published Small Power Purchase Tariff
(PSKSK), and standardized power purchase contract. The private sector developers would finance their
investments with a combination of equity and credit from commercial banks of their choosing ­ the
Participating Banks (PBs) ­ for up to 15 years. The loans from the PBs to the developers would be at the
prevailing interest rates for similar transactions, with the PBs taking responsibility for appraising
developer requests for credit, and for bearing the commercial risk on the credit extended to a developer.
The PBs, in turn, would re-finance 70 percent of the credit extended to the developers from the IBRD
credit made available to them at market rates, under onlending arrangements through the Government of
Indonesia (GOI).

5.       The technical assistance component would provide for project implementation support services,
and institutional development. A Project Support Group (PSG), reporting to the Director-General,
DGEED, would be established to assist the private project developers with, inter alia: (i) environmental
review of their project to ensure compliance with World Bank requirements; (ii) implementation support
in the form of limited technical advice to the project developers in the Project pipeline to facilitate the
timely and proper implementation of the project; and (iii) pre-investment activities, including
administering GEF grants of $100,000 per project for 15 projects to potential project developers to assist
them with their pre-investment activities, such as pre-feasibility and feasibility studies; and (iv) provide
regular progress reports for monitoring this component. The TA for institutional development would

provide for consultants who would assist the Directorate of Electric Power Planning in the preparation of
a strategy for renewable energy resource information collection and dissemination, and in implementing
this strategy.

6.       The project would support development of about 15 to 20 small private power projects utilizing
renewable energy resources; primarily biomass residues in sugar and palm oil mills and mini-hydro
projects, for an aggregate capacity of about 75 to 100 MW (about 60% of this development outside Java).
The RESP was part of a series of linked projects, phased over a period time to promote commercial
markets for renewable energy. Among these projects, the Indonesia-Solar Home Systems project (SHS),
which was processed in parallel but approved before the RESP on January 1997, supported the
development of a large scale market for SHS among rural consumers who could not be economically
served in a timely manner by conventional rural electrification. Although the SHS project, unlike the
RESP, proceeded to the implementation phase, its implementation was severely affected by the financial
crisis of 1997 resulting in that the project fell short of achieving its key development objectives.

7.       At the time of project appraisal in 1996, the prospects for a successful operation were very likely
as the following conditions were in place: (i) the Indonesian authorities had put in place important policy
and regulatory changes, including the introduction of the published small power purchase tariff and
simple standard contract mechanism ("PSKSK" regulation); (ii) PLN was supportive of the project and
willing to purchase power from all eligible private projects; (iii) four of the strongest commercial banks in
Indonesia had expressed interest in participating in the Project; and (iv) there was a firm pipeline of
projects ready to use funding provided by the Bank and GEF at a reasonably early date. During
negotiations in May 1997, it was agreed that the condition of the loan's effectiveness would be the
signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between MOF and BI, and at least two subsidiary agreements
between MOF/BI and participating banks.

8.       However, soon after board approval in June 1997, the economic and political situation in
Indonesia rapidly deteriorated as a result of the East Asia financial crisis. The value of the Rupiah
plummeted from Rp. 2,341/US$ in September 1996 to Rp. 17,000/US$ by January 1998. As a
consequence, the capital costs in Rupiah terms became too high, and all the investments (bagasse cogen,
palm oil cogen, etc) were no longer viable commercially. It became clear that the project would need to
be adjusted in light of the changed macroeconomic situation in the country. A Bank mission was sent to
the field in February 1998 to evaluate different options for the restructuring of the RESP as well as of
other ongoing power projects affected by the financial crisis.

9.       During the February 1998 power mission, various GOI officials expressed concern that the
Project had lost much of its attractiveness for private developers, given the increase in costs following the
depreciation of the Rupiah and increased in the domestic interest rates. Moreover, the banking system
became almost paralyzed, and banks were not able to extend new term loans until their recapitalization
was completed. At about the same time, the Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF) was being introduced as a
global public-private partnership to pioneer the market for project-based greenhouse gas emission
reductions in developing countries and economies in transition. Preliminary studies conducted by the
Bank indicated that several of the project investments contemplated under the RESP could be viable with
carbon finance (i.e. not a loan, but purchase of carbon reduction credits). The Bank proposed that the
project be restructured in order to restore its financial viability and recommended the use of the PCF as
one option to secure additional revenues not only for the private developers but also for GOI, in the form
of "carbon offset sales". However, the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) decline to use the PCF
alternative as it was perceived of limited relevance to the country.

10.      In the meantime, the initial loan effectiveness date of November 2, 1997 was extended several
times to allow time for the Borrower to fulfill the conditions of effectiveness. A third extension was



                                                        2

granted until July 15, 1998 to allow for a June 1998 Bank mission to assess the situation first hand and
reach a final decision on the project. From June 16-26, 1998, a Bank supervision visited Jakarta to review
and assess the desirability and possibilities for restructuring the RESP. The mission found that despite the
crisis, there was substantial and continued interest by the private sector in developing small renewable
projects that could be financed under the project. In general, the project developers indicated that they
remained interest in participating in the project, provided that there was additional grant support.
However, none of the pre-identified subprojects were viable without additional grant financing. In
addition, the financial sector collapse and liquidity crisis situation had to improve and stabilize before
project implementation could start. Therefore, the Bank offered the Borrower two options for this project:
(i) terminate the loan; or (ii) if GOI wanted to keep the project, to request the Bank to secure additional
grant funds (in the range of US$15 to 20 million) from donors willing to support the production of
electricity from clean renewable energy.

11.      On July 15, 1998, the Government of Indonesia sent a letter to the Bank (Attachment 1)
informing that it would be unable to implement the RESP project because of the lack of response from
banks and private developers to participate in the project a result of the macroeconomic crisis.
Consequently, both Loan and Grant agreements for the RESP project were terminated on July 15, 1998,
prior to each of them becoming effective. Despite its termination, the project showed that there is a
potential market for PV in Indonesia. However, a satisfactory business environment is necessary for
success in a market development project. Any future initiatives to develop renewable energy technologies
should take into account the lessons learned from the RESP project.




   This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
   their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



                                                       3

wb76941
L:\INDONESIA\PCN-Indonesia-RESP-v1Nov12.doc
November 18,2003 7:03 PM




                                               4

