Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4198 IND
Loan Agreement
(Renewable Energy Small Power Project)
between
Republic of Indonesia
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 4, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4198 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS:  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower has requested assistance from the resources of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, the Bank has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with Resolution No. 94-2 of the 
Executive Directors dated May 24, 1994, establishing the GEF Trust Fund, and, by an 
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank, acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF (the GEF Grant Agreement), GEF is agreeing to provide 
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to three million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 3,000,000) (the GEF Grant); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement: 
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall 
have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an 
amount of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project's costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings wherever used in this Agreement:
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of SP 
Subprojects under Part A.1 of the Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard 
of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land 
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable 
asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, and “Affected 
Persons” means collectively all persons who qualify as an Affected Person.
(b)
“BI” means Bank Indonesia, the central bank of the Borrower, established 
and operating under Law No. 13 of 1968 of the Borrower.
(c)
“BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BI pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the BI 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the term “BI Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided 
under the BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d)
“Developer” means a developer of a small power project to which a 
Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a Subloan. 
(e)
“DGEED” means the Directorate General of Electricity and Energy 
Development in the Borrower’s Ministry of Mines and Energy.
(f)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on April 1 and ends on March 31 in 
each calendar year.
(g)
“General Policy for Land Acquisition, Compensation and Resettlement for 
Small-Scale Power Generation Projects” means the policy of the Borrower, satisfactory 
to the Bank, to compensate, resettle and rehabilitate the Affected Persons as well as 
all those persons similarly affected by small power projects.
(h)
“Participating Banks” means, collectively, the Private Commercial Banks 
Page  3
and the State-owned Commercial Banks, and “Participating Bank” means any one of them.
(i)
“Participating Bank Agreements” means, collectively, the Private Bank 
On-lending Agreements and the State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and 
“Participating Bank Agreement” means any one of them.
(j)
 “Pre-Investment Activities” means the conduct of pre-feasibility and 
feasibility studies with respect to an SP Subproject under Part A.2 of the Project.
(k)
“Private Bank On-lending Agreement” means any agreement entered into 
between BI and a privately-owned commercial bank pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules supplemental to such Private Bank On-lending Agreement.
(l)
“Private Commercial Banks” means the commercial banks other than 
commercial banks owned by the Borrower which propose to make or have made a Subloan to 
a Developer and which have entered into a Private Bank On-lending Agreement with BI, 
and “Private Commercial Bank” means any one of them.
(m)
“PSKSK Regulation” means the regulation to promote participation of the 
private sector and cooperatives in the development and operation of small renewable 
energy power plants, including PLN’s published small power purchase tariff and 
standard simplified power purchase contract governing the sales of electricity 
produced by small power projects to PLN.
(n)
“PSG” means the Project Support Group established by the Borrower and 
maintained in accordance with paragraph A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(o)
“PLN” means Perseroan Terbatas Perusahaan Perseroan (PERSERO) P.T. 
Perusahaan Listrik Negara, a limited liability company established and existing under 
the laws of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
 (p)
“Remedial Date” means the date referred to in Section 3.02(e) of this 
Agreement as the date prescribed for a Participating Bank to regain its Sehat status.
(q)  “Rupiah” means the currency of the Borrower.
(r)
“Sehat” means the classification of a Participating Bank as financially 
sound made by BI, from time to time, pursuant to Law No. 7 of 1992 of the Borrower.
(s)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(t)
“State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means any agreement entered into 
between the Borrower and a commercial bank owned by the Borrower pursuant to Section 
3.02(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules supplemental to such State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(u)
“State-owned Commercial Banks” means the commercial banks owned by the 
Borrower which propose to make or have made a Subloan to a Developer and which have 
entered into a State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower, and 
“State-owned Commercial Bank” means any one of them.
(v)
“Subgrant” means a portion of the proceeds of the GEF Grant provided to a 
Developer for the carrying out of Pre-Investment Activities pursuant to the terms of 
the GEF Grant Agreement.
(w)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Participating 
Bank to a Developer to finance an SP Subproject, funded in part out of the equivalent 
of the proceeds of the Loan relent to such Participating Bank under the respective 
State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Private Bank On-lending Agreement, as the case 
may be, and “Subloan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between a 
Participating Bank and a Developer setting forth the terms and conditions under which 
a Subloan is to be made.
(x)
“SP Subproject” means a specific investment project for the development 
of a small power project under Part A.1 of the Project.
Page  4
(y)
“Subsidiary Loan” means a loan provided for in the respective State Bank 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Private Bank On-lending Agreement, as the case may be. 
(z)
“Supervision Date” means the date referred to in Section 3.02(e) of this 
Agreement as the date on which BI determines that a Participating Bank is not in 
compliance with its Sehat requirements.
(aa)
“Uncommitted Funds” means, as of a given date, the aggregate amount of 
the proceeds of the Loan on-lent to a Participating Bank pursuant to a Participating 
Bank Agreement, which at such date has not been committed by such Participating Bank 
to finance Subloans approved by the Bank.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixty 
six million four hundred thousand Dollars ($66,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts paid 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by a Participating Bank on account of 
withdrawals made by a Developer under a Subloan under Part A.1 of the Project as 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to meet the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the SP Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Loan Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A.1 of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a 
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, environmental, financial and technical practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
Page  5
carry out Part A.1 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to BI an amount out of the proceeds 
of the Loan corresponding to the aggregate amount of Subloans to be made from time to 
time by the Private Commercial Banks, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and BI, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in 
paragraph B.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause BI to on-lend to each Private Commercial Bank 
the amount out of the proceeds of the BI Subsidiary Loan corresponding to the 
aggregate amount of Subloans approved to be made by such Private Commercial Bank from 
time to time, under an on-lending agreement between BI and such Private Commercial 
Bank, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which 
shall include the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph B.2 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend to each State-owned Commercial Bank the amount 
out of the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to the aggregate amount of Subloans 
approved to be made by such State-owned Commercial Bank from time to time, under a 
subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and such State-owned Commercial Bank, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall 
include the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph B.2 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the BI Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and shall ensure that BI 
shall exercise its rights under the Private Bank On-lending Agreements, in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the 
State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof, and shall ensure that 
BI shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Private Bank On-lending Agreements 
or any provision thereof.
(e)
If at any time (the Supervision Date) the Borrower, through BI, 
determines that a Participating Bank is not in compliance with BI requirements so as 
to maintain its Sehat classification, the Borrower shall promptly, but in any event 
not later than thirty (30) days after the Supervision Date, require such Participating 
Bank to undertake measures to regain its Sehat status by a prescribed date (the 
Remedial Date).  Promptly thereafter the Borrower shall inform the Bank that a 
situation has arisen that may require by the Remedial Date the reallocation of the 
Uncommitted Funds of such Participating Bank.  If by the Remedial Date, in the opinion 
of BI, such Participating Bank has not regained its Sehat status, the Uncommitted 
Funds of such Participating Bank may, with the Bank’s prior approval, be allocated, in 
part or in total, by the Borrower or BI, as the case may be, to other Participating 
Banks for the financing of Subloans and the amount of the Subsidiary Loans made to 
each of such Participating Banks shall be revised accordingly.
Section 3.03.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods 
required for Part A.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Subloans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in paragraph B.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Page  6
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall ensure that the compensation, resettlement and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons shall be carried out in accordance with the General 
Policy for Land Acquisition, Compensation and Resettlement for Small-Scale Power 
Generation Projects. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof, and of BI and the Participating Banks.
(b)
The Borrower shall, and shall cause BI and the Participating Banks to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with Appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
provide to any Developer, whether directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, any 
loan, subsidy, grant, credit enhancement or financing of any kind other than out of 
the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to this Agreement and the proceeds of the GEF Grant 
pursuant to the terms of the GEF Grant Agreement.
Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) PLN shall purchase all power generated by the SP Subprojects, at rates and 
in a manner in accordance with the PSKSK Regulation; and
Page  7
(b)  PLN shall, by June 30 (or such other date as may be agreed by the Bank) in 
each year, commencing June 30, 1998, revise and publish the PSKSK Regulation small 
power purchase tariff schedule, including the form of the standard power purchase 
contract, in accordance with a methodology agreed with the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the GEF Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and BI;
(b)
the GEF Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(c)
at least two of the Participating Bank Agreements have been entered into 
between the respective Participating Banks and the Borrower or BI, as the case may be.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and BI and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BI in 
accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the agreements referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement 
have been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and are legally binding 
upon such parties in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
Jakarta 10710, Indonesia
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  8
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN - IA 
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU - IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
    Expenditures
Category
    Dollars)
   to be Financed
(1)
Subloans under 
  66,400,000
          70% of amounts
       Part A.1 of
   disbursed
       the Project
  __________
TOTAL
  66,400,000
 
  ==========
Page  9
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be in 
respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)  prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b)  made in respect of a Subloan under Category (1): (i) unless the SP 
Subproject in respect of which the Subloan is to be made has been approved by the Bank 
in accordance with paragraph B.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) until the 
Participating Bank Agreement under which the Subloan is to be financed has been 
approved by the Bank and the Bank has been furnished with an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank to the effect that such 
Participating Bank Agreement has been duly authorized and ratified by the parties 
thereto, and is legally binding upon such parties in accordance with its terms. 
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a) facilitate 
participation by the private sector in the development of small renewable energy 
projects in Indonesia on a commercially sustainable basis; (b) promote environmentally 
sound energy resource development and reduce the dependence of the Borrower’s energy 
sector on fossil fuels; (c) bring about cost effective mitigation of carbon dioxide 
(CO2) emissions; and (d) strengthen the Borrower’s institutional capacity to support 
and sustain renewable energy development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
1.
Financing of about 15 small power projects (SP Subprojects), each consisting of 
the installation within the territory of the Borrower of a renewable resource-based 
power generation unit by a developer, for the generation and sale of electricity to 
PLN under the PSKSK Regulation.
2.
Financing of pre-feasibility and feasibility studies in further preparation of 
about 15 potential SP Subprojects.
Part B:
1.
Strengthening Borrower’s capacity for Project implementation through provision 
of consultants’ services in connection with:
a.
the environmental review of SP Subprojects;
b.
pre-investment activities under Part A.2 of the Project; and
c.
technical advice to developers of SP Subprojects.
2.
Strengthening Borrower’s capacity to design and implement a long-term strategy 
for the development of renewable energy small power projects, through the development 
of a plan for ongoing resource information collection and dissemination.
*          *          *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
Page  10
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
Page  11
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency for value on 
the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest 
rate based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of 
such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after November 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement 
Procurement of Goods
Part A:  General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Page  12
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this part B.
(a)  Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Established Commercial Practices
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of established commercial practices in 
Indonesia which are acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
       With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.     Post Review
       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management.
1.
The Borrower shall establish, no later than November 15, 1997, and shall 
maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a project support group, 
with terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, to be 
responsible for, inter alia, (i) environmental review of proposed SP Subprojects; (ii) 
administration of Subgrants for Pre-Investment Activities; and (iii) SP Subproject 
implementation support through technical advice to Developers.
2.
The Borrower shall establish, no later than March 31, 1998, a working group to 
be headed by the Director of Electric Power Planning of DGEED and with representation 
from Borrower’s National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Mines and Energy, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Public Works and 
Page  13
Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprise Development, PLN and the Indonesian 
Sugar Council, to be responsible for assisting consultants engaged in connection with 
the implementation of Part B.2 of the Project.
B.
Financial Arrangements for Subloans under Part A.1 of the Project.
1.
BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The terms and conditions of the BI Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement shall include:
a.
the obligation of BI to on-lend funds so re-lent under the BI Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement to the Private Commercial Banks, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank which shall include, without limitation, the terms and conditions set 
forth in paragraph B.2 of this Schedule;
b.
the obligation of BI to supervise the financial performance of each 
Participating Bank and to require that each Participating Bank undertakes measures to 
maintain or regain, as the case may be, its Sehat classification; and
c.
the obligation of BI to require that Participating Banks party to Private 
Bank On-Lending Agreements agree to make Subloans to Developers only on the terms and 
conditions set forth in paragraph B.3 of this Schedule.
2.
Private Bank On-lending Agreements and State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreements. 
The terms and conditions of the respective Private Bank On-lending Agreements and the 
State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include:
a.
the obligation of each Participating Bank to:
(i)
pay interest on the Subsidiary Loan at a variable rate per annum 
equal to the 
average six months interest rate per annum of Bank 
Indonesia’s Sertifikat Bank 
Indonesia (SBI) with three month 
maturity.  Such rate is to be adjusted on 
January 1 and July 1 
of each year, commencing on January 1, 1998, and 
calculated 
based on the average of SBI three month maturity quotations during 
the preceding six months; provided, however, that the interest rate on the 
Subsidiary Loan for the period from the date of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement 
through January 1, 1998, shall be determined on the basis of 
the average of 
the per annum interest rate of SBI three month 
maturity quotations during the 
six months preceding January 1, 1998; 
provided further, however, that each 
Participating Bank and the 
Borrower or BI, as the case may be, may, with the 
Bank’s approval, 
agree on an alternate basis for determining the interest rate 
payable by such Participating Bank on its Subsidiary Loan that better reflects 
the cost of domestic term funds;
(ii)
repay in Rupiah the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan over a 
period of 
15 years, including a grace period of three years; 
(iii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by the 
Participating 
Bank shall be the equivalent in Rupiah 
(determined as of the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal) 
of the value of the currency or currencies 
withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in respect of such Subsidiary Loan; and
(iv)
pay the Borrower in the case of each State-owned Commercial Bank, 
or BI in the 
case of each Private Commercial Bank, a commitment charge on 
the undisbursed 
portion of its respective Subsidiary Loan at a per 
annum rate identical to the 
rate paid by the Borrower to the Bank 
pursuant to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement;
b.
the obligation of each Participating Bank to:
(i)
on-lend funds so re-lent under the Private Bank On-lending 
Agreements and the 
State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreements to the 
Developers, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank 
which shall include the terms and 
conditions set forth in 
paragraph B.3.c of this Schedule;
Page  14
(ii)
exercise its rights in relation to each such Subloan made by it, 
in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and such Participating 
Bank;
(iii)
take all such measures as may be necessary, including, without 
limitation, 
enforcement of collateral security, to ensure timely 
performance of the 
Developer’s obligations to such Participating 
Bank in respect of such Subloan; 
and 
(iv)
exchange views with the Borrower and the Bank, upon the request of 
the 
Borrower or the Bank, on matters relating to collection and 
repayment of such 
Subloan;
c.
the obligation of each Participating Bank to ensure that Developers have 
accounting and internal controls, including auditing arrangements, adequate to provide 
the financial information needed by the Participating Bank to monitor and supervise 
the operations and SP Subproject implementation performance by the Developers;
d.
the agreement of each Participating Bank that:
(i)
the Participating Bank Agreement to which it is a party will be 
amended from 
time to time to reflect the amount of the Subsidiary Loan 
made or proposed to 
be made to such Participating Bank; and
(ii)
the Borrower or BI, as the case may be, may reduce the amount of 
such 
Participating Bank’s Subsidiary Loan by an amount equal to 
such Participating 
Bank’s Uncommitted Funds, and that the Participating 
Bank Agreement to which 
such Participating Bank is a party will be 
amended accordingly; and
e.
no obligation to pay any administration or banking fee (other than 
interest charged in accordance with paragraph B.2.a.(i) of this Schedule) to the 
Borrower or BI, as the case may be, on the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan disbursed 
to such Participating Bank.
3.
Subloans to Developers. 
a.
No expenditures for goods required for an SP Subproject shall be eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Subloan for such SP 
Subproject shall have been approved by the Bank.
b.
When presenting a Subloan to the Bank for approval, the Participating 
Bank shall furnish to the Borrower and the Bank an application, in form satisfactory 
to the Bank, together with: 
(i) 
a description of the Developer and an appraisal of the proposed SP 
Subproject, 
including the Developer’s business plan;
(ii) 
the proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the 
schedule of 
amortization thereof;
(iii)  evidence satisfactory to the Bank of SP Subproject compliance with 
applicable 
environmental regulations of the Borrower together with a 
completed 
environmental compliance report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, with respect to such SP 
Subproject;
(iv)   if required by the Bank, a land acquisition and compensation 
report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(v)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
c.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Participating Bank shall 
obtain, by written contract with the Developer or by other appropriate legal means, 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and the 
Participating Bank, including the right to:
Page  15
(i) 
require the Developer to carry out the SP Subproject with due 
diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial and 
environmental standards, and to maintain 
adequate records;
(ii) 
require the Developer to carry out the compensation, resettlement 
and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons in accordance with the 
General Policy for 
Land Acquisition, Compensation and Resettlement for 
Small-Scale Power 
Generation Projects and in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(iii)  require that: (a) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and, if the provisions of Part 
C of Schedule 4 are applicable, at a 
reasonable price, account being 
taken also of other relevant factors such as 
time of delivery and 
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability 
of 
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and (b) such goods shall 
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the SP Subproject;
(iv) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if 
the Bank 
shall so request, such goods and the operation 
thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
(v) 
require that: (A) the Developer shall take out and maintain with 
responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice; and 
(B) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall 
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and 
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
to the place 
of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
payable in a currency freely usable by the Developer to replace or repair such 
goods;
(vi) 
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall 
reasonably  
request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Developer and 
to the benefits to be derived from 
the Subproject; and
(vii)  suspend or terminate the right of the Developer to the use of the 
proceeds of 
the Loan upon failure by such Developer to perform its 
obligations under its 
contract with the Participating Bank.
4.
Payment Procedures.
Disbursement of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loans by the Borrower and BI 
shall be made pursuant to procedures and subject to documentation acceptable to the 
Bank.
C.
Monitoring and Reporting
1.
Without limitation to Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall:
a.
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
7 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
b.
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 31 in each year, commencing December 31, 1997, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to sub-paragraph a. above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
Page  16
c.
review with the Bank, by February 28 in each year, commencing February 
28, 1998, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
sub-paragraph b. above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views 
on the matter;
d.
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank on or about October 1, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph a. above on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period since its 
inception, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
e.
review with the Bank, by December 1, 1999, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph d above, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A.1 of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $10,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed in 
aggregate the amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis 
Page  17
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 
2 of this Schedule; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Page  18
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 7 
Performance Indicators
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TABLE, FORMAT IS TOO BIG)
