Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF 028362
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
related to Loan Number 4198 IND
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Renewable Energy Small Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated August 4, 1997
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF028362
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
related to Loan Number 4198 IND
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 1997, between Republic of Indonesia (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF.
WHEREAS: (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91\1e5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94\1e2 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank 
has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above;
(D)
the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date 
herewith between the Recipient and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to provide such 
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equal to sixty six million four hundred 
thousand Dollars ($66,400,000) (the Loan); and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Section 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: 
“the term “Special Drawing 
Rights” and the symbol 
“SDR” mean special drawing 
rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its 
Articles of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank 
acting as an implementing agency of the 
GEF, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting in its 
own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this 
Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(vii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
Page  3
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”;
(viii) a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 
of the 
General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen 
in which any further disbursement under 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed 
the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.”; and
(ix)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to  any amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any 
time, the Bank determines, after consultation 
with the Recipient, that an amount of the GEF  Trust Fund Grant will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, with 
respect to any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or 
of a 
beneficiary of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the procurement or the execution 
of such 
contract, without the Recipient having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of  such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of 
any contract 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is inconsistent 
with 
the procedures set forth or referred to in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise 
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant, or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, or (f) 
the Bank shall have received notice from the 
Guarantor pursuant to Section 
6.07 with respect to an amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, 
the Bank may, by 
notice to the Recipient and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, 
such amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Developer” means a developer of a small power project to which the 
Recipient proposes to make or has made a Subgrant.
(b)
“DGEED” means the Directorate General of Electricity and Energy 
Development in the Recipient’s Ministry of Mines and Energy.
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Recipient’s fiscal years, which period commences on April 1 and ends on March 31 
in each calendar year.
(d)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Recipient and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as applied to 
such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement. 
(e)
“PLN” means Perseroan Terbatas Perusahaan Perseroan (PERSERO) P.T. 
Perusahaan Listrik Negara, a limited liability company established and existing under 
Page  4
the laws of the Recipient, and includes any successor or successors thereto.
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
(g)
“Subgrant” means the portion of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
provided by the Recipient to a Developer in accordance with Section 3.05(a) and 
paragraphs A.1 and A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(h)
“SP Subproject” means a specific investment project for the development 
of a small power project under Part A.1 of the Project
(i)
“PSKSK Regulation” means the regulation to promote participation of the 
private sector and cooperatives in the development and operation of small renewable 
energy power plants, including PLN’s published small power purchase tariff and 
standard simplified power purchase contract governing the sales of electricity 
produced by small power projects to PLN.
(j)
“Pre-Investment Activities” means the conduct of pre-feasibility and 
feasibility studies with respect to an SP Subproject under Part A.2 of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 3,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of services required for carrying out Parts A.2 and B 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a commercial bank, 
appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and engineering practices and with due regard to ecological 
and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out Parts A.2 and B of the Project through DGEED in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall make available to Developers out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant amounts allocated from time to time to Category 
(1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under a 
subsidiary grant agreement between the Recipient and each Developer to which a 
Page  5
Subgrant is made or is proposed to be made, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank, which shall include the terms and conditions set forth 
in paragraph A.2.(c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants’ services required for Parts A.2 and B of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project;  and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.05. (a)  The Recipient undertakes that, unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, Subgrants will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subgrant in 
such manner as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank;
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii)
accomplish the purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments, 
agencies or entities of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any 
part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
Page  6
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
provide to any Developer, whether directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, any 
loan, subsidy, grant, credit enhancement or financing of any kind other than out of 
the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the Loan Agreement and the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant pursuant to this Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as a condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, namely that the Loan Agreement has been executed and 
delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 2458
Jakarta 10710, Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN - IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU - IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
Page  7
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C.,  as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as an implementing agency of the Global
Environment Facility
By /s/ Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   GEF Trust Fund Grant
Allocated
       % of 
 
      (Expressed in
           Expenditures
Category
 SDR Equivalent)
    to be Financed
(1)
Subgrants under
    1,100,000
    100%
       Part A.2 of the 
Project
(2)
Consultants’ services   1,900,000            100%
under Part B of
the Project
    _________
TOTAL
                 3,000,000
                 =========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;
(b) in respect of a Subgrant to a Developer under Category (1) unless the 
Page  8
Pre-Investment Activities in respect of which such Subgrant is to be made have been 
approved by the Bank in accordance with paragraph A.2.b of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) Subgrants and 
(ii) contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each, in each case under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient to: (a) facilitate 
participation by the private sector in the development of small renewable energy 
projects in Indonesia on a commercially sustainable basis; (b) promote environmentally 
sound energy resource development and reduce the dependence of the Recipient’s energy 
sector on fossil fuels; (c) bring about cost effective mitigation of carbon dioxide 
(CO2) emissions; and (d) strengthen the Recipient’s institutional capacity to support 
and sustain renewable energy development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
1.
Financing of about 15 small power projects (SP Subprojects), each consisting of 
the installation within the territory of the Recipient of a renewable resource-based 
power generation unit by a developer, for the generation and sale of electricity to 
PLN under the PSKSK Regulation.
2.
Financing of pre-feasibility and feasibility studies in further preparation of 
about 15 potential SP Subprojects.
Part B:
1.
Strengthening Recipient’s capacity for Project implementation through provision 
of consultants’ services in connection with:
a.
the environmental review of SP Subprojects;
b.
pre-investment activities under Part A.2 of the Project; and
       c.
technical advice to developers of SP Subprojects.
2.
Strengthening Recipient’s capacity to design and implement a long-term strategy 
for the development of renewable energy small power projects, through the development 
of a plan for ongoing resource information collection and dissemination.
*          *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants’ Services
Employment of Consultants
Page  9
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A.
Terms and Conditions of Subgrants
1.
Developer Subgrant Agreements.
For the purpose of making Subgrants to Developers, the Recipient shall make 
available a portion of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Developer under a subgrant 
agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and each Developer to which a 
Subgrant is made, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2.
Subgrants.
Page  10
a.
  Subject to subparagraphs b. and c. below, the amount of the Subgrant to 
a Developer shall be equivalent to $100,000.
b.
   No expenditures for Pre-Investment Activities shall be eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant unless the Subgrant for such 
Pre-Investment Activities shall have been approved by the Bank.  When presenting a 
Subgrant to the Bank for approval, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank an 
application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, together with a 
description of the Developer and of the proposed Pre-Investment Activities.
c.
Subgrants shall be made on terms whereby the Recipient shall obtain, by 
written contract with the Developer or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Recipient, including the right 
to:
(i)
require the Developer to carry out the Pre-Investment Activities 
for which the 
Subgrant is made with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with 
sound technical, financial, managerial 
and environmental practices;
(ii) 
require that the consultants’ services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Subgrant shall be procured in accordance with Schedule 3 
to this 
Agreement;
(iii)  obtain all such information as the Bank or the Recipient shall 
reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Developer and 
to the benefits to be derived from 
the SP Subproject; and
(iv) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Developer to the use of the 
proceeds of 
the GEF Grant upon failure by such Developer to perform its 
obligations under 
its contract with the Recipient.
B.
Implementation of Technical Assistance 
1.
Without limitation to Section 3.03 of this Agreement, in carrying out Part B of 
the Project, the Recipient, through DGEED, shall:
(a)
no later than March 1, 1998, employ consultants, with qualifications and 
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to (i) undertake the gathering of 
information with respect to renewable resources within the territory of the Recipient, 
(ii) evaluate the quality and adequacy of such information; and (iii) develop and 
implement a system to facilitate the dissemination of such information;
(b)
no later than March 1, 2000, upgrade resource information for 
approximately 35-50 proposed renewable energy small power projects, primarily outside 
Java, to enable potential private sector developers to undertake pre-feasibility 
studies that will provide a reliable basis for investment decision making and make 
such information available on an open and equitable basis; and
(c)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, no later than May 31, 2000, for review 
and comment by the Bank, a plan for an ongoing program of renewable energy resource 
information collection and dissemination.
C.
Monitoring and Reporting
1.
The Recipient shall:
a.
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
b.
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about December 31 in each year, commencing December 31, 1997, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to sub-paragraph a. above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
Page  11
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
c.
review with the Bank, by February 28 in each year, commencing February 
28, 1998, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
sub-paragraph b. above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views 
on the matter.
d.
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank on or about October 1, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph a. above on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period since its 
inception, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
e.
review with the Bank, by December 1, 1999, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph d. above, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for Parts A.2 and B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for the 
Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 740,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
Page  12
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall 
have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
 
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be 
made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  13
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TABLE, FORMAT WAS TOO BIG)
