RESTRICTED
Report No.   DB-94a
This teport is for official use onlY by the Bank Group and speciftally authorized oranations
or persons. It may not be pubHshed, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accurcy or compltenetu of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCI1ON AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
MAURITIUS
May 30, 1972
Development Finance Companies Department



CURW C rQUIVALNTS
5.1i7 Rupee  (Re.)  - US $1.-
Rs. 1 million          = US $195,427



APPRAISAL OF
TIIE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Table of Contents
Page
BASIC DATA .    ....................................
SU1"IARY .   ......................................iii
I INTRODUCTION .1
II   THE ENVIRONMENT
General .1
Industry.                                     2
Tourism.                                      4
Financial Institutions.                       4
III   ThE INSTITUTION
Origin and Purpose.                           5
Relations with the Government.                5
Board of Directors.                           6
Operating Policies.                           6
Organization.                                 6
Management.                              6
Staff.                                   7
Procedures.                              7
Auditors .8
IV    RESOURCES, OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Resources.                                    8
Operations.                                   9
Industry.                                9
Small Scale Industries ...... ........  10
Industrial Estates ..................  11
Agriculture .........................   12
Financial Condition ......................  12
V    PROSPECTS
Forecast Activity ........................  14
Resource Requirements ....................  15
Projected Financial Results ...... ........  16



Table of Contents (Continued)                                  Page
VI    CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....      ..........    16
List of Annexes
1. List of Board Members.
2. Statement of General Policy.
3. Organization Chart, January 1972.
4. Evolution of Operations 1966/67-1970/71.
5. Distribution of Industrial Investments Approved from Inception
to June 30, 1971.
6. Analysis of Industrial Lending Operations
1968/69-1970/71.
7. List of Main Investments Approved in Industry and Tourism.
8. Summarized Profit and Loss Accounts 1967/68-1970/71.
9. Summarized Balance Sheets 1968-1971.
10. Projected Operations 1971/72-1975/76.
11. Resources Available for Commitment, December 31, 1971.
12. Projected Balance Sheets 1972-1976.
13. Projected Cash-Flow 1971/72-1975/76.
14. Projected Profit and Loss Accounts 1971/72-1975/76.
15. Projection Assumptions.
16. Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule.
This report is based on the findings of a mission, consisting of Messrs. A.
Nespoulous-Neuville and J. Kendall, which visited Mauritius in January 1972.



DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
BASIC DATA
lo     Date on which started operations:  March 1, 1964
2.     Ownership
Paid-in Share Capital
(Rs. million)
Government of Mauritius                                8e0
Bank of Mauritius (central bank)                       2.0
10.0
3.     Resource Position (in Rs. million, as of December 31, 1971)
Capital and reserves                                      19.1
Debentures and bonds outstanding                          18.0
Government loans                                          26.6
Deposits                                                   3.9
Total resources                                      67.6
Loans (net) and equity investment outstanding             41.2
Undisbursed commitments                                    4.7
Industrial estates and fixed assets                        5.1
Sinking fund                                               8.3
Total commitments                                    5903
Uncommitted resources                                      8.3
Total                                                67.6



- ii. -
4.     Operations Committed                         Rs. millions
FY 1969      FY 1970      FY 1971
Industrial loans                    4.0           2.0          4.2
Equity investments, industry         0.3          2.5          2.7
Industrial estates                  0.2            -           2.3
Agricultural loans                   0.5          0.8          0.7
Total yearly commitments       5.0           5.3          9.9
5.     Actual Financial Performance
1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71
Profit after provisions as
percentage of average assets     o.6        0.7       1.1       1.7
Profit after provisions as
percentage of average
net worth                                    -         -        5.2
6.     Projected Financial Position and Performance
1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75
Profit after provisions as
percentage of average
net worth                         5.1       6.7       6.3       6.8
Term Debt/Equity ratio           0.4/1      0.4/1     0.7/1     0.9/1
7.     Interest Rates and Commitment Fees
Industrial loans                              8.5% p. a.
Small scale industry loans                    4.5% p. a.
Agricultural loans,
for farmers with more than 10 acres         7.0% p. a.
for farmers with 10 acres or less           6.0% p. a.
Commitment fee                                None
DFCD
May 1972



- iii -
SUMMARY
i.       The Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) was established by the
Government to help overcome the two main problems of Mauritius: exces-
sive dependence on one crop, sugar cane, and unemployment.  Its purpose
is to finance industrial and tourism development as well as the diver-
sification of agriculture. Industry is the sector which offers the
largest potential for job creation.
ii.      Foreign investors show an increasing interest in establishing
export oriented industries in Mauritius. They are attracted by the low
cost of labor, the high quality of manpower and Government incentives.
Prospects for industrial and tourism expansion over the next two years
are good, provided the political situation remains stable.
iii.     As recommended by a Bank Group mission which visited D3M in
1969, DEK has been endowed with a share capital; a new General Manager,
whom the Bank helped find, has been appointed; the Board has been
enlarged; interest rates for lending to industry have been raised and
some policies and procedures have been improved. Though the Financial
Secretary is the Chairman of D34's Board, D3M seems to have adequate
independence in its individual investment decisions.
iv.      The Government requires DEK to undertake certain programs at
concessional terms to clients, such as financing of small-scale industry,
refinancing of prior debts of small farmers and construction and leasing
of industrial estates. DEM's Board has the right to require that the
Government guarantee reimbursement of losses if the Board anticipates that
the programs may endanger DBM's financial position. This right has been
exercised in the past. Assurances were obtained from the Government
during negotiations that it will give adequate guarantees to protect DBM
against losses on such programs.
v.       The construction and leasing of industrial estates has been an
effective incentive to foreign investment. The magnitude of DBM's
proposed program for the four coming years, however, is such that a
feasibility study is called for.  The cost of this feasibility study
is included in the proposed IDA credit, as welf as sufficient financing
to enable DBM to continue the construction program at about the present
level until the study is available.
vi.      DBK's policies, management and procedures are, by and large,
satisfactory and DBM is a creditworthy institution.



- iv -
vii.     An IDA credit of US$3.5 million, to cover DBM's resource gap
for the foreign component of projects, is recommended. Of this amount
US$3.0 million will be to meet resource requirements for industrial and
tourism projects up to June 30, 197h, US$4O0,OOO will be for investments
in industrial estates and US$100,000 will be to meet the cost of the
feasibility study mentioned above. It is recommended that DBM should
have a free limit of Us$50,000 for individual industrial and tourism
projects and an aggregate free limit for such projects of $750,000.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1969 the Government decided to reorganize the Development Bank
of Mauritius (DBM) so that it could play a more active role in the develop-
ment of Mauritius and requested Bank Group advice in reorganizing DBM. A
mission led by a Consultant, Mr. Medhora, Deputy General Manager of the In-
dustrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India, visited DBM in December
1969.  Its main recommendations were that DBM should be provided with share
capital, its Board changed, its General Manager replaced, its independence
from the Government increased, and its interest rates for industrial loans
raised. All these recommendations have been followed and, in general, those
made by the mission for changes in policies and procedures. A new General
Manager, whom the Bank Group helped find, took office in May 1971. A loan
was requested in 1971 and a Bank Group mission to appraise DBM visited
Mauritius in January 1972. The present report is based on its findings.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
General
2.01      The economic situation in Mauritius is analyzed in:  "Current Eco-
nomic Position and Prospects of Mauritius," number AE-14a, dated February 10,
1971. An economic mission returned from Mauritius in December 1971 and is
preparing its report assessing the new development plan for 1972-1975.
2.02      Mauritius comprises an island of about 720 sq mi, located some 500
miles east of Madagascar in the Indian Ocean and several smaller island de-
pendencies. With a population of 850,000, it is one of the most densely
populated agricultural areas in the world. Over two thirds of the population
originated in the Indian subcontinent; about a quarter are of European (1%),
African or mixed origin; and some 3% are of Chinese descent. The official
language is English, but French is widely used. Per capita income is about
the equivalent of $190 per annum.
2.03      Sugar is the mainstay of the economy.  Sugar cane occupies 94%
of the arable land and sugar makes up about 92% of exports. Because of
tropical cyclones, sugar production fluctuates widely from year to year,
and these fluctuations deeply affect the whole economy.
2.04      Mauritius' overwhelming problem is an excess of new entrants to
the labor market over the economy's capacity to absorb them.  Following im-
provements in public health, particularly the eradication of malaria after
the second World War, life expectancy at birth nearly doubled. Though the
rate of population growth has declined to 1.7%, the high rate prevailing in
the 1950's (3.2% p.a.) created a serious problem for this generation. New
entrants to the labor market are expected to exceed 9,000 per year during
the next ten years, while new jobs created only averaged 2,500 p.a. in the



- 2 -
past four years. Emigration is encouraged by the Government and the number
of emigrants reached about 3,000 in 1968. Unemployment exceeds 20% of the
total work force and will rise rapidly unless there is a massive increase
in the creation of employment opportunities.
2.05      Discontent over unemployment led to the rise of a new opposition
party during 1971. A series of disturbances which culminated in a crippling
dock strike led the Government to establish a six-month state of emergency
on December 16. While the business community now seems confident that the
Government's firmness will have lasting effects, a major factor affecting fu-
ture political stability will be the Government's handling of the unemployment
problem.
2.06      Few new jobs are expected in the sugar industry, for which growth
prospects are limited. Prospects for diversification of agriculture are
also limited by lack of land and because of sugar's comparative advantages
(which include marketing and crop insurance facilities). The major thrusts
for growth must therefore come from expansion in industry and tourism.
2.07      The Government's development strategy for 1971-1980, and the four-
year plan covering the period July 1971 to June 1975, largely rely on indus-
trialization to create jobs, but play down tourism because the cost of job
creation in this sector is comparatively high.
Industry
2.08      The manufacturing sector in Mauritius has been dominated in the
past by sugar-processing, which accounted for about 9% of GDP during the
last decade, without significant expansion. During the same period, other
industries -- producing mainly consumer goods -- contributed 6% of GDP, and
grew slowly at 3.5% per year, as compared to a 3.1% annual rate of growth for
GDP as a whole. Investment in manufacturing during the five year period 1966
to 1970 increased from Rs 11 million to Rs 16 million, an average annual
increase of 10%.
2.09      With the exception of sugar and tea, Mauritius has practically no
basic commodity to transform industrially. Possibilities for import-sub-
stitution industries, severely limited in any event by the size of the do-
mestic market, have been almost exhausted.
2.10      The major hope for industrial development now lies in the trans-
formation of imported raw material and intermediate products for export mar-
kets.  The Government hopes to achieve a breakthrough in this field following
the examples of Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan.  Mauritius has a small but
active group of local entrepreneurs, and a number of foreign entrepreneurs
have invested in the country.  The level of education and adaptability of
manpower in Mauritius make its potential quality, in some skills, as good
as in most industrialized countries, and wages are, for the time being, far



- 3 -
lower. 1/ This provides Mauritian industries with a considerable asset, which
is partially offset by high freight rates and delays due to infrequent ship
calls. Transportation disadvantages are bound to decrease as the volume of
cargo from Mauritius increases; in the meantime, Mauritius's remoteness lim-
its export opportunities to high value, low bulk goods.
2.11      Up to 1970, the Government's main means of stimulating industrial
development consisted of granting Development Certificates to those entre-
preneurs who seemed best able to carry out projects in a selected group of
primarily import-substitution industries considered to be of importance to
the island's economy. Development Certificates entitle companies to a
five-to-eight-year tax holiday (depending on depreciation allowances chosen),
import duty exemption on capital goods and protection against competing imports
through customs duties or quantitative restrictions. Companies in certain
activities favored by Development Certificates undertake, in exchange, to main-
tain prices at certain levels, and cannot increase them without Government ap-
proval (a 15% annual return on paid-in capital is the guideline). Largely
for fear of increasing the domestic price level, and thus making Mauritian
sugar non-competitive in export markets, the Government has administrated
the Development Certificate scheme with caution. Development Certificates
in some industrial activities were either delayed or not granted because
costs would have been too high, and entrepreneurs with Certificates com-
plain that price increase approvals are granted grudgingly.
2.12      A scheme specifically aimed at stimulating investment in export in-
dustries was put into effect in December 1970 when the Export Processing Zone
Act was approved. Under it, companies producing for export markets are
granted a ten to twenty-year tax holiday on retained earnings 2/, a five-year
tax holiday on dividends, exemption from import duties on raw materials and
capital goods, exemption from certain labor indemnity obligations, and guaran-
teed foreign exchange for raw material imports and for repatriating profits
and capital, among other benefits. Companies which operate under this scheme
are not restricted to any specific location, but may set up their factories in
any industrial site on the island. Their sales to the domestic market are sub-
ject to normal import duties. The Export Processing Zone scheme has caused
considerable interest among foreign investors. Eleven applications representing
investments of over Rs. 9.0 million and 1,170 new jobs were approved during the
first year, and the authorities had another 40 applications under consideration
at the time of the mission's visit. DBM has provided a total of Rs. 2.1 million
to finance six of the eleven investments approved.
2.13      The Government wishes to provide adequate infrastructure for in-
dustry. Two hundred acres of land near the harbor at Port-Louis are being
reclaimed and have been earmarked for a large industrial zone. The Govern-
ment also has an ambitious plan to build and lease industrial estates, which
1/ In October 1969, wages ranged from U.S. $0.07 to 0.22 per hour in Mauritius
against a range of $0.17 to 0.43 for the same categories of manufacturing
industries in Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore.
2/ Mainly depending on the labor intensity of a project; the authorities ex-
pect investment to be below Rs 12,000 per job created, but there is no
fixed limit.



- 4-
)BM began to implement four years ago. Ready-to-lease industrial estates are
)articularly useful to foreign investors, not only because they reduce the
imount of capital required, but because they spare the time and effort needed
:o secure authorization from a variety of local authorities for land, power,
iater, etc. They also save investors the time required for construction.
rourism
2.14      A Bank Group mission on tourism visited Mauritius in April 1969 at
the request of the Government and concluded that while there were undoubtedly
good prospects for tourism investment in the island, individual projects
would be too small for direct Bank Group financing. It suggested that bank
3roup assistance be given through a suitable financial intermediary.
2.15      The Government's prudent approach to tourism expansion at the pre-
sent time contrasts with the eagerness of local and foreign sponsors to in-
vest in tourist hotels. The island's attractiveness is striking, and the
Eirst few tourist hotels built (one project with joint assistance from DBM
and IFC, see report IFC/P-102 of April 29, 1971) have been successful. How-
ever, two recent studies 1/ indicate that if all hotel projects which have
already received development certificates are implemented as scheduled, there
night be overcapacity in 1975. Since forecasts of tourist arrivals have a
high degree of uncertainty, opinion in Mauritius is widely divided as to
whether these studies are optimistic or pessimistic.  It seems that hotel con-
struction should be approached with caution; the risk of failure will be
smaller for those sponsors who ensure sufficient clientele through foreign
co-sponsors.
Financial Institutions
2.16      Mauritius has a well-developed commercial banking system.  There
are six commercial banks; the Mauritius Commercial Bank-accounts for half of
all banking business and Barclays Bank for about another quarter. The Mauri-
tius Commercial Bank is the only bank incorporated and owned locally, the
other five are branches of overseas banks. The Mauritius Commercial Bank has
a 60% interest in the Mauritius Commercial Bank Finance Corporation (the
other 40% is owned by Lloyds Bank of U.K.) which extends term loans and in-
vests in equities, and Barclays Bank makes similar investments through a
London-based associate company. The volume of term financing provided by
these two companies has been small in comparison to DBM's business.
2.17      Other financial institutions include:  the Mauritius Cooperative
Central Bank Ltd. which lends mainly for seasonal financing of sugar cultiva-
tion, and also, on medium-term, for land purchase or improvement and for
housing; the Sugar Industry Pension Fund which occasionally makes term loans
to sugar processing companies; the Mauritius Housing Corporation; the Post
Office Savings Bank and a number of insurance companies, which make occa-
1/ By Inter-Tourisme Consult, Paris, March 1971 and Industrial Market Research
Ltd., London, September 1971.



-5-
sional investments in industrial enterprises. Short-term financing may also
be obtained from lenders outside the banking system and the above group of
institutions; however, their significance is small.
2.18      The commercial bank prime rate is 7.5% p.a.  The minimum interest
rate for medium-term loans is 8.5% p.a. Actual rates can be up to 1.5% p.a.
above minima, depending on collateral. Moneylenders charge from 9% upto
about 20% p.a., although the legal maximum interest rate is 9%.
2.19      DBM is the major source of long-term financing to industry other
than sugar processing. In order to extend its coverage, it has recently
offered to undertake joint financing operations with commercial banks where-
by the latter would assume the shorter maturities of loans, for instance up
to five years, while DBM would finance the longer maturities. This offer
was received favorably by commercial banks.
III. THE INSTITUTION
Origin and Purpose
3.01      As a result of reports on Mauritius' economic prospects, 1/ the
Government decided in the early 1960's that resources available for devel-
opment should be used to finance activities other than sugar production.
Accordingly, the existing Mauritius Agricultural Bank, which had mainly
financed sugar cultivation, was transformed into the DBM by a Government
Ordinance approved in 1963. It started operations on March 1, 1964. DBM
is charged to emphasize industrial development and agricultural diversifi-
cation, and to encourage and assist the participation of private capital,
local and foreign, in the island's development.
Relations with the Government
3.02      A statutory corporation without share capital, DBM was continously
dependent on the Government for its resources. The Bank Group mission in
1969 advised that greater independence from the Government would be necessary
to make DBM eligible for Bank Group financing. Following the mission's sugges-
tion, DBM was provided with a share capital in 1970, its Board of Directors
was enlarged, and a new General Manager was appointed in 1971. Very close
links with the Government remain, however, although DBM's Board and Manage-
ment seem to be independent in making decisions on individual investments.
Moreover, the Government has asked DBM to undertake a number of programs
which it considers to be of high economic priority. These programs are de-
scribed later in this report.
1/ Mainly that prepared for the Government by Professor Meade in 1960.



- 6 -
3.03      The Ordinance which created DBM empowers the Minister of Finance
to give DBM general policy directives. DBM's Board of Directors may, how-
ever, if it considers that such directives might prejudice DBM's financial
position, require that the Government guarantee to reimburse DBM any losses
it might incur in following such directives. This guarantee has already been
provided in the case of a loan program to small-scale industries described
later in this report.
Board of Directors
3.04      The composition of DBM's Board is established in an amendment to
the Ordinance which stipulates that the Ministries of Finance, Commerce and
Industry, as well as the Bank of Mauritius (central bank), will be represent-
ed, and that the Government will choose five to seven members from the priv-
ate sector. Board decisions are taken by a majority of the Directors pre-
sent. At the present time, DBM's Board consists of twelve directors: three
representatives of the Government, one of the Bank of Mauritius, seven repre-
senting several business activities (all chosen by the Government) and the
Managing Director. (See list of Directors in Annex 1.) The Chairman is
Mr. R. Pyndiah, Financial Secretary. His influence is considerable, not
only because he has a casting vote, but because of his personal prestige.
Within the framework of Government policies, the Board provides proper guid-
ance. The Directors are all prominent members of Mauritius' business and
official communities. The Board, which must a,pprove all investments, meets
twice a month and attendance is good.
Operating Policies
3.05      A Statement of General Policies, approved by DBM's Board in October
1971 and amended in February 1972, is reproduced in Annex 2. The Statement
indicates that DBM will not normally seek to acquire a controlling interest in
any enterprise and that individual investments; in shares will not normally ex-
ceed 25% of a company's issued share capital, or 10% of l)BM's own net worth
plus subordinated loans. DBM's total equity portfolio is limited to the value
of its own net worth. The Statement indicates that DBM will obtain suitable
security for all loans, normally lending up to 50% of the appraised value of
such security. This proportion can, however, be increased to 75% under
special circumstances. DBM's total investment:s in a single enterprise --
whether in the form of equity investments, loans or guarantees -- are limited
to 15% of its net worth plus subordinated loans. The period of repayment
mentioned by the Statement is to be brought into line with the maximum 15 years
for industry and 20 years for tourism agreed with the Bank (see paragraph 6.05).
In general, the policies contained in the Stal:ement are prudent and suitable.
Organization
3.06      Management.  DBM has had expatriate Managing Directors since it was
created. Its present Managing Director is Mr. D.V. Narasimhan who was Chief
Executive of the Madras Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd. for six years
before joining DBM in May 1971. He was recommended to DBM by the Bank Group.



14r. Narasimhan is competent and experienced in development banking; he can be
expected to provide reliable and solid management during what is expected to
be a period of rapid growth for DBM.
3.07      Staff.  DBM's organization chart is shown in Annex 3.  There are
two operations departments, one each for industry and agriculture, which re-
port directly to the Managing Director. Between them they have eight perm-
anent, Mauritian professionals; staff members in the Industrial Department
received their training abroad while those in the Agricultural Department
received training at the Mauritius College of Agriculture.
3.08      The Industrial Department is headed by Mr. E.R. Siou, a Civil Engineer
by profession, who has been with DBM for six years. His permanent staff con-
sists of two investment officers who have been with DBM for four years and
one year respectively. In December 1971, the Industrial Credit and Invest-
ment Corporation of India seconded a financial officer, Mr. P.H. Joshi, for
one year to help the Industrial Department in project appraisal. This De-
partment is still understaffed and DBM's Management has obtained authoriza-
tion to hire four new professionals in the near future, at least two of whom
are to have financial backgrounds.
3.09      Professional staff turnover has been high, particularly in the In-
dustrial Department, mainly because DBM's salary scales have been kept close
to those of the civil service, which are lower than salaries prevailing in
the private sector. Under the terms of DBM's Ordinance the Minister of
Finance must approve all staff appointments. DBM's Board should be given
autonomy to fix terms and conditions of employment necessary to find and retain
staff of the required caliber. To that effect, the Government agreed during
negotiations to submit to the Parliament an amendment to the Ordinance,
abrogating ministerial approval of staff appointements.
3.10      Procedures.  DBM's project appraisals are satisfactory, though
market evaluations could be improved. Market evaluations are of special im-
portance because the domestic market is so small, because a policy of com-
paratively unrestricted imports has been followed, and because Mauritius is
far from export markets. DBM's economic appraisals have been largely limited
to evaluating a project's effect on employment. Discussions were held during
negotiations on ways for DBM to improve its economic assessment of project
proposals.
3.11      Most of the industrial projects financed by DBM are comparatively
small. In the case of machinery and equipment, customers are required to
show evidence that they have asked for more than one offer. If there is
still some doubt or if the investment is substantial, DBM may itself seek
quotations from suppliers.
3.12      DBM normally takes a first mortgage on a company's land and build-
ings as security for its loans. Mauritian law now requires that a building
be finished and that all the machinery be installed before a mortgage can be
constituted, if the land does not belong to the borrower. Many of DBM's
customers are thus prevented from drawing on DBM's finance until construction



-8-
and installation have been finished and must obtain bridging overdrafts from
commercial banks in the meantime. DBM is seeking to have the law amended
so that it can disburse its loans as required.
3.13      In other respects disbursement procedures are satisfactory.  DBM's
Manager is enjoined by the Charter to satisfy himself that loans have been
used for the purpose stated in loan applications. The Charter empowers the
Manager to accelerate loan maturities at any time if he is not satisfied that
loan proceeds have been properly used, and DBM's loan agreements are drawn up
accordingly.
3.14      Follow-up visits to each customer are made at least once a year;
if customers are known to be in difficulties, visits are made every quarter.
By terms of DBM's loan contracts, customers must send DBM a set of full fi-
nancial statements at least once a year and DBM reserves the right to have
these audited at the customer's expense. Most of the larger borrowers are
public companies and have their accounts audited anyway but many of the
smaller, private companies do not.
3.15      Auditors.  DBM's accounts have been audited yearly by the Govern-
ment Director of Audits. During negotiations, DBM agreed to have its accounts
audited yearly by independent accountants acceptable to the Bank.
IV. RESOURCES, OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Resources
4.01      Share Capital.  Loans from the Government to DBM amounted to
Rs 25.3 million at the end of fiscal year 1970, when it was decided -- at
the Bank Group's suggestion -- that DBM should have its own share capital.
Accordingly, Rs 10.0 million of Government loans were converted to share
capital on December 28,1970. Eighty percent of the shares were subscribed
by the Government itself and twenty percent by the Bank of Mauritius.
Together with accumulated reserves of Rs 9.1 million, the new share capital
gave DBM a net worth of Rs 19.1 million at the end of fiscal year 1971; its
term debt/equity ratio was then 1.8/1.
4.02      Borrowing.  DBM's liabilities on June 30, 1971 amounted to Rs 41.5
million, of which Rs 18.0 million were in the form of fixed interest securities
issued by the Mauritius Agricultural Bank and assumed by DBM in 1963, Rs 17.3
million were long-term Government loans, the remaining Rs 6.2 million being
short-term loans, deposits and current liabilities.
4.03      The debentures and bonds issued by the Mauritius Agricultural Bank,
and assumed by DBM, were sold to the public between 1950 and 1963. They are
guaranteed by the Government of Mauritius and their average yearly cost is
4.04%.  The securities were of between 23 and 25 years maturity when issued
and no repayments have yet been made; the first maturities fall due in 1976.



The government has required that DBM form a sinking fund.  As of June 1971,
46% of the value of securities outstanding was covered by the sinking fund,
which is invested in various Mauritius Government securities.
4.04      DW-1, as such, has not issued any securities to the public and is
unlikelv to do so in the near future. Market interest rates have in-
creased substantially and the Government prefers that DBM borrow from it
rather than from Mauritius' small capital market. The Government recently
issued Rs 30.0 million of its own securities.
4.05      DBHI has obtained all its new resources from the Government up to
the nresent time. The practice has been for the Government to allocate,
once a year, sufficient funds to meet DBM's expected requirements for the
coming, year. Other than capital, new resources have been provided in the
form of loans which are repayable in full after 40 years. Unlike obligations
taken over from the Mauritius Agricultural Bank, DBM need not form a sinking
fund to retire Government loans. DBM pays a concessional rate of interest
of 2-1/2% per annum. In February 1972, the Government decided to subordinate
its loans to DBM's other obligations.
4.06      DBM may accept demand or term deposits but takes saving deposit
accounts only, of which it has 3,800 at the present time, all from the public.
It pays the same interest as commercial banks.  Deposits have fluctuated be-
tween Rs 3.0 million and Rs 4.5 million since DBM started operations and have
not shown a tendency to grow. On June 30, 1971 they amounted to Rs 4.3
million, or 10.4% of DBM's total liabilities. By terms of the Ordinance
DBM must maintain liquid reserves against these deposits; the minimum reserve
requirement is 12.5% at the present time.
Operations
4.07      A breakdown of DBM's total approvals, commitments and disburse-
ments from July 1, 1966 to June 30, 1971 may be found in Annex 4. Eighty-
eight percent of total loan and equity commitments over the last five years
were to the industrial sector, and 12% to the agricultural sector. This
distribution is in accord with the guidelines given to DBM when it was
created, i.e., that it should de-emphasize investments in the agricultural
sector -- except insofar as it might help to diversify production -- and
concentrate on employment-creating industrial projects.
4.08      Industry.  DBM's assistance to the industrial sector includes:
a) term loans to medium and large scale industrial enterprises primarily
to finance the acquisition of fixed assets; b) equity investments in the
same type of enterprise; c) loans to small scale entrepreneurs and d) con-
struction and rental of factory buildings.
4.09      DBM's commitments to industry over the last five years have averaged
Rs 4.7 million annually, but increased sharply in 1970/1 to Rs 7.0 million.
Three quarters of industrial commitments were term loans and one quarter
equity investments. DBM average annual commitments (excluding its commitments
to tourism, shipping and fishing) have amounted to about a quarter of manu-
facturing investment. About two thirds of DBM's commitments to industry since



- 10 -
it started operations went to manufacturing enterprises, one fifth to service
companies -- of which hotels were the most important -- and one eighth to
companies engaged in fishing and agricultural processing. A breakdown showing
the distribution, by industrial activity, of DBM's approvals to date may be
found in Annex 5. Seventy percent of the projects to which DBM committed
financing over the past three years were new enterprises, while existing
companies only received 8% of the financing provided over the same period.
Annex 7 lists the 14 largest investments in industry and tourism, representing
about half of total investments approved as of March 31, 1972.
4.10.     DBM's average size commitment to industrial customers is about
Rs. 200,000 ($39,000). Repayment terms are normally 10 years without grace
period, though terms of up to 15 years and grace periods of up to 4 years
have been extended when required.
4.11      DBM's interest rates to industrial customers were, as a matter
of policy, lower than those charged by commercial banks up to November 1971,
when rates were -increased from 6.5% p.a. to 8.5% p.a. DBM's present lending
rate to industrial enterprises is, therefore, in line with market interest
rates. (See paragraph 2.18.)
4.12      DBM's pipeline of industrial loan applications grew considerably
over the three year period ending Jtne 30, 1971, especially during fiscal
year 1969/70 (see Annex 6). This increase was due to a larger number of ap-
plications received and to sone delay in processing them resulting from stafi
shortage. The number of projects processed during 1969/70 was 24 (for Rs 5.4
million) as against 34 (for Rs 12.5 million) the previous year. Though value
of projects processed during 1970/71 increased somewhat, to Rs 10.1 million,
a pipeline of 34 applications for Rs 22.1 million still existed at the end of
the fiscal year, Not all projects were, however, mature enough for DBM to ap-
prove them at that time.
4.13      DBM's equity commitments -- the five main ones, representing 99%
of the total, listed in Annex 7 -- are mostly in manufacturing enterprises,
with the exceptien of Rs 1.2 million investment in a hotel group and a small
investment in a poultry processing company. Total share subscriptions were
equivalent to 35% of net worth on June 30, 1971, and all except one small one
were to buy preference shares. DBM has subscribed shares in eight companies
of which five, representing 24% of its equitv subscriptions, are in operation.
Of these,  four companies are making good progress while one, representing only
0.5% of the portfolio, is in difficulties. DBM intends to sell off its equity
holdings- as t'ley mature. It does not expect to have difficulty in divesting
itself of equitv investments as there is demand for shares in Mauritius, though
there is no organized stock market.
4.14      SmailScale Industries.  DBM's small-scale industrial lending pro-
granm was initially started by the Ministry of Education as part of its train-
Inig program  for s:iall scale businessmen.  Up to the third quarter of 1971,
DBM acted only as an agent for the Ministry of Education, which appraised
all loans. Since then, DBM is entirely responsible for the program from



appraisal to loan recovery. DBM's commitments under this program during
the past five years only amounted to an average of Rs 20,000 annually, or
less than 1/2% of total commitments. All loans to individual businessman of
under Rs 10,000 (or. under Rs 50,000 in the case of cooperatives) are guaran-
teed by the Government, which, in return, has asked DBM to grant customers a
concessional interest rate of 4.5% p.a. The 2% spread between this and the
Government's lending rate to DBM is credited to a provision for bad debts,
to which all defaults must be charged before DBM can request that the Gov-
ernment honor its guarantee. DBMts small-scale industry portfolio only
amounted to Rs 103,000 at the end of 1971.
4.15      Simplified procedures are used to handle loans under the small-
scale industries program. DBM relies heavily on an entrepreneur's reputa-
tion -- especially with commercial banks and buyers -- in assessing applica-
tions. Until recently borrowers were not required to provide collateral,
but they are now asked to either pledge property or obtain a good guarantor.
Procedures related to small-scale industries are now adequate.
4.16      Since, under the present arrangement with the Government, all
DBM's interest spread is credited to provisions, DBM incurs a loss equal to
its administrative expenses for the program. Up to the present time these
expenses have been small; DBM estimates that they are equivalent to 5% of
its total administrative costs, or about Rs 30,000 per annum, but they might
well increase in the future. The Government gave assurances during negotiations
that it would meet the total cost of administrating the small-scale industries
program.
4.17      Industrial Estates.  The Government has asked DBM to undertake a
program of constructing and leasing buildings suitable for industrial enter-
prises. DBM has so far built 64,000 sq. ft. of factory space, in three lo-
cations, and has another 48,000 sq. ft. under construction. Factory space
is leased in units, most of them of 2,000 sq. ft. plus services (toilets,
courtyards, etc.). A company may rent several units. Utilities are also
provided. DEM's outstanding investments in industrial estates totaled Rs 2.5
million on June 30, 1971 and are expected to amount to about Rs 4.2 million
by the time buildings now under construction are finished, or 22% of DBM's
net worth on June 30, 1971. All the finished buildings, and a good part of
those under construction, have been rented to foreign investorsiand the demand
is still strong.
4.18      Rentals are calculated to yield a 6.5% or 8.0% annual return (de-
pending on location) on the cost of the building and to allow its amortiza-
tion over 30 years, on the assumption of an occupancy rate of 80%. A charge
of 3% of the original investment is made every year to cover maintenance
costs. Customers sign 3 year leases and have a renewal option. DBM may in-
crease rents by 10% on renewal.
4.19      The industrial estates program, as presently formulated, does not
seem to allow DBM to receive a return on investment commensurate to the
long-term risks. The interest rates used to calculate return on capital
employed are unrealistic and should be at least 8.5% p.a., the rate at which



- 12 -
lBM makes loans to industrial enterprises. While the 80% occupancy rate
Lssumption seems justified by present demand, it may prove optimistic for
:he 30 year period over which investments are amortized, especially if the
;ize of the program is increased significantly as the Government wishes.
)BM should reconsider the terms it grants its industrial estates clients in
:he light of the findings of the study mentioned in paragraphs 5.02 mnd 5.03
elow.
~.20      Agriculture.  More than half of DBM's total loan portfolio on
Fune 30, 1971 was made up of loans to the agricultural sector, of which
nost were inherited from the Mauritius Agricultural Bank.  Over the past
ive years, loans committed for agricultural purposes were only 12% of the
:otal. Though DBM is intended to promote agricultural diversification,
Less than half of its agricultural loans were for that purpose, as shown
)y the following table:
Agricultural loan approvals ('000 Rs.)
Total
1967/68  1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1967-71  %
Co sugar growers                    550       640      666        792   2,648   54
wor diversification                 496    1,348        205       162   2J211   46
rotal agricultural approvals   1 046    1,988          871       954   4,859  100
4.21      Of loans approved for sugar growers during fiscal year 1970/71,
52X were for refinancing of prior debt, 28% to finance the preparation of
ields already in use, and 10% for preparation of new land.
W.22      The Government has requested DBM to assist farmers who are not
able to repay loans obtained from commercial banks and moneylenders. Though
there should be no reason why DBM could not occasionally refinance debts of
,yell-established and clearly profitable enterprises, the refinancing of prior
iebt as a matter of course -- in many cases to borrowers who do not keep ade-
luate books and whose profitability cannot, therefore, be established -- will
ilrnost certainly result in a greater number of deliquent accounts in DBM's
Dwn portfolio. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, if the
;overnment intends to continue the program, separate accounts will be kept for
it (including a full statement of its costs) and that the Government will guar-
antee the loans made under it.
Financial Condition
4.23      Summarized financial statements covering fiscal years 1967/68
to 1970/71 may be found in Annexes 8 and 9. DBM's financial structure is
sound. Its term debt/equity ratio was an acceptable 1.8/1 on June 30, 1971
even if Government loans are considered debt. Since Government loans are re-
?ayable considerably later than all of DBM's other obligations, and are now



- 13 -
subordinated to these, there is justification, from a senior creditor's
viewpoint, for grouping them with equity in computing DBM's debt/equity
ratio. On this basis DBM's debt/equity ratio was 0.5/1 on June 30, 1971.
DBM's liquidity position is satisfactory; its liabilities are of longer
maturity than its assets.
4.24      Even though DBM is exempt from income taxes, its profitability has
been modest up to the present time, mainly as a result of the Government's
desire that it lend at concessional interest rates. Since DBM had no capital
until recently, past profitability can only be measured against average assets.
Profitability amounted to 2.1% on average assets during fiscal year 1970/71.
Administrative cost have been between 1.2% and 1.3% of average assets per annum.
4.25      DBM's arrears on December 31, 1971 are summarized in the following
table:
(millions of Rs)
Principal +    of which overdue    % of port-
interest    three to   more than    folio
overdue /1  12 months  12 months   exposed
Industry, including small-scale  0.5              0.1         0.4        7.7
Agriculture                        1.2            0.1         1.1        17.3
Total                   1.7            0.2         1.5        12.8
/1  'More than three months.
Exposure to overdue agricultural clients was considerably higher than to
industrial clients. A large proportion of DBM's accounts have been delinquent
for 12 months or more; DBM should vigorously pursue their collection or write
them off after legal remedies have been exhausted.
4.26      All profits, since DBM started operations, have been credited
either to general reserves or to provisions for bad debts. As of December 31,
1971 provisions amounted to 5% and reserves to 20% of the total portfolio, and
amply covered potential losses in DBM's portfolio.  In preparing DBM's fi-
nancial forecasts, the hypothesis that provisions should be equivalent to 6%
of the loan portfolio was used because of the high proportion of accounts which
have been delinquent for 12 months or more.



- 14 -
V. PROSPECTS
Forecast Activity
5.01      DBM's role in financing industrial development in Mauritius can
be an important one provided it acquires and develops effective professional
staff in sufficient number to cope with additional business. Annex 10 shows
DBM's projected approvals, commitments and disbursements from fiscal years
1971/72 to 1975/76. Commitments to industry and tourism, excluding indus-
trial estates, are projected to increase from Rs 7.0 million reached! in
1970/71 to Rs 13.2 million by 1973/74.  DBM's estimates are in part based c,n
its present pipeline of projects under study, and in part on estimates of
gross fixed capital formation in manufacturing over the next five years.
DBM's projected industrial commitments depend, to a large extent, on the
degree to which the Export Processing Zone Act (see paragraph 2.12) induces
foreign entrepreneurs to invest in Mauritius. So far the results of the
Export Processing Zone Act have been very encouraging and DBM's projections
up to the middle of 1974, though they reflect a compound rate of increase in
business of 24% per annum, seem attainable given political stability. The
Government's projections of industrial investment, on the other hand, antici-
pate investments of Rs 265 million over the five-year period 1971-1975, as
against Rs 66 million during the five-year period 1966-70, and seem to be
optimistic. DBM's commitments in tourism are projected to amount to 30% of
commitments to industry and tourism up to the end of fiscal year 1974. Th-se
projections seem justified by tourism's potential in Mauritius and by the num-
ber of projects now being promoted; tourist arrivals have recently been in-
creasing at over 15% per annum. Nevertheless, DBM should choose the tourism
projects it supports with caution. Loan commitments to small-scale industrial
enterprises are expected to increase substantially, but to still remain under
Rs 200,000 per annum. Commitments in agriculture are projected to average
about Rs 0.6 million annually through 1973/74, or about a quarter less than
DBM's average annual commitments during the past five years.
5.02      In order to facilitate and encourage industrial investment in
Mauritius, the Government wants DBM greatly to expand its industrial estates
program over the next five years and this is reflected in DBM's projections.
Demand for new estates may continue to be strong as long as DBM's estates
represent only a small fraction of total needs for industrial accommodation.
The large program envisaged, however, may provide more than 60% of factory
buildings needed during the next five years and calls for around 300 new
units, as compared to 40 units built so far or nearing completion. Before
a program of such magnitude is undertaken, there is need for a feasibility
study covering such matters as prospective demand, the number and sizes of
units in relation to this demand, alternative locations, common services to
be provided, whether some of the premises might advantageously be sold in-
stead of rented, whether it might be preferable to provide a "site and serv-
ices" arrangement for some clients and let them construct their own buildings,
policy on terms of sale or lease, and organizational and administrative re-
quirements. What role DBM should play in implementing the industrial estates
program should also be studied.



- 15 -
5.03      It was agreed during negotiations that DBM will engage before
September 1, 1972 consultants acceptable to the Association, to carry out
such a feasibility study. Provisional terms of reference for the study were
agreed upon during negotiations. The foreign exchange cost of the study is
expected to be under $100,000, and it is proposed that this amount be included
in the credit to finance the study. The conclusions of the study are expected
to be available before the end of 1972, and to serve as a basis for a project
which the Bank Group could consider towards the middle of 1973. In the meantime,
the industrial estates program remains a useful one and its implementation
should not be halted. During negotiations DBM agreed to limit its total com-
mitments in industrial estates to 15% of its net worth plus subordinated
Government loans until the results of the study have been reviewed. DBM could
commit about an additional Rs 4.0 million to industrial estates and still be
within this limit.
Resource Requirements
5.04      Given the small size of the Mauritian economy, a large proportion
of the components of industrial investment are imported. DBM has therefore
projected that 65% of its loan commitments for industrial and tourism enter-
prises and 60% of industrial estate investments will be used to purchase
foreign goods. Agricultural and small-scale industry loans are expected to
be only for local components. Total projected commitments over the two-year
period ending June 30, 1974 are as follows:
(millions of Rs)
Total                  of which:
Local            Foreign
Component          Component
Industry & tourism               23.2            8.2                15.0
Agriculture and small-scale
industry                        1.7            1.7                 0
Industrial estates                4.0            1.6                 2.4
Gross requirements          28.9           11.5                17.4
5.05      In order to meet these forecast commitments, DBM plans to use its
existing resources (see Annex 11) to meet the local component of project
costs. DBM has asked the Bank Group to cover its gap in resources required
to finance the foreign component of projects over the next two years of op-
eration, estimated at $3.4 million equivalent:



- 16 -
Millions of Rs
Total                 of which:
Local          Foreign
Component        Component
Requirements                      28.9         11.5              17.4
Resources available /1             2.2          2.2
Cash generation /2                13.3         13.3
Total Resources             15.5         15.5
Gap/(surplus)                     13.4         (4.0)             17.4
$ equivalent                       2.6        (0.8)               3.4
/1   Rs 8.3 million shown in Annex 11, less half total commitments in FY 1972.
/2   Estimated loan recoveries, depreciation and profit before provisions less
investments in sinking fund (see Annex 13).
Projected Financial Results
5.06      DBM's projected balance sheets, cash flow and profits and loss
accounts up to the end of fiscal year 1976 may be found in Annexes 12, 13
and 14. On the assumption that the occupancy rate of its industrial estates
will be at least 80%, DBM's profit, after provisions, as a percentage of
average net worth, will be between 5% and 7% per annum during the five-year
period ending June 30, 1976. Thus profitability will be moderate, at best.
The ratio of DBM's term debt to equity plus subordinated Government loans is
projected to increase gradually to 1/1 by 1976.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMKEINDATIONS
6.01      The prospects for industrial and tourism investment in Mauritius
are good provided the political situation remains stable. The Government
seeks to deal with Mauritius' main economic and social problem, which is un-
employment, through industrialization; it grants suitable investment incen-
tives and foreign investors are showing increasing interest in opportunities
offered by the island.
6.02      DBM is financially sound and creditworthy at the present time;
it is well managed and has acceptable appraisal, procurement and follow-up
procedures. DBM's Board and Management seem to have sufficient independence
in making individual investment decisions.



- 17 -
6.03      An IDA credit of U.S. $3.5 million, to cover DBM's resource gap
for the foreign component of projects, is recommended. Of this amount $3.0
million will be to meet resource requirements for industry and tourism
projects up to June 30, 1974, $400,000 will be for investments in industrial
estates and $100,000 will be to meet the cost of a study to evaluate what
course the industrial estate program should take after the middle of 1973.
The credit would be disbursed as estimated in Annex 16. During negotiations
it was agreed that the ratio of DBM's term debt to equity plus subordinated
Government loans would be limited to 3/1.
6.04      The Government will on-lend the IDA funds to DBM at an interest
rate of 7.25%, and with a 3/4% commitment fee. A free limit of $50,000 for
individual projects, and an aggregate free limit of $750,000 are recommended.
Based on the size distribution of its previous investments, this will permit
the Association to review 75% of the financing provided by DBM under the
credit and 40% of the number of projects.
6.05      DBM will repay that part of the credit used to finance industry
and tourism to the Government in the manner which is usual in Bank loans to
development finance companies; its repayment schedule would conform sub-
stantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to the
specific investment projects financed out of the proceeds of the credit, with
a maximum period of 15 years, including grace period, from the approval of
an investment project in industry, and 20 years, including grace period, for
an investment project in tourism. Tourism projects typically have a longer
economic life, a higher proportion of fixed operating costs, and more un-
stable revenues than the average industrial project.
6.06      DBM will repay that part of the credit used to finance industrial
estates on a fixed amortization schedule over a period of 20 years, in view
of the relatively long life of industrial buildings. Since the foreign
component of industrial estates is about 60% of their cost, and local costs
will be financed by DBM either from its share capital or from 40-year Govern-
ment loans, repayable in full at expiry, the above period of 20 years would
allow DBM to continue to calculate rents on the basis of a 30-year amortiza-
tion, until it reconsiders its leasing terms in the light of the conclusions
of the industrial estates study, without unbalancing its cash-flow. That
part of the credit used to finance the cost of the industrial estates study
will be made available to DBM by Government in the form of a grant.






Annex 1
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
List of Board Members
(January 1972)
Chairman:     R. Py-ndiah          Financial Secretary
Members:      G. Bunwaree           Man. Director, Bank of Mauritius
B. Arouff            Secretary, Industrial Development
Ministry of Commerce and Industry
K. Vencatachellum    Ministry of Finance
M. Sidambaram        Mauritius Cooperative Central Bank Ltd.
E. Dawood            Merchant, with interest in transportation
Member, Legislative Assembly
H. Ythier, C.B.E.    Industrialist, pharmaceuticals
Member, Legislative Assembly
S. Bappoo            Industrialist, pharmaceuticals
Member, Legislative Assembly
R. Lamusse, O.B.E.   Banker and Financier
F. Robert            Industrialist, sugar
P. White             Industrialist, sugar and other interests
(Lonrho Ltd.)
D. V. Narasimhan     Managing Director DEK
Alternates:   I. Ramphul            Bank of Mauritius
P. Mohith            Min. of Commerce and Industry
DFCD
March 1972






Annex 2
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS          Page 1
Statement of General Policy
Approved by the Board of Directors of DBM on October 27, 1971 and Amended
on February 9, 1972
1.        The Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) was established in
the year 1964 as a result of Ordinance No. 34 of 1963 and may be des-
cribed as a Successor to the Mauritius Agricultural Bank (MAB) whose
assets and liabilities it took over.
The main reason leading to the establishment of the DBM was
to bring into existence a single institution which would cater to the
needs of industry, agriculture and tourism and other related activities
that have relevance to the country's economic development.
2.        The purposes for which the Bank has been established have
been defined in the Ordinance itself under Section 5 quoted hereunder:--
"5.(1)  The purposes of the Bank shall be to facilitate the
industrial, agricultural and economic development of
the country by promoting, encouraging and assisting in
all or any of the following activities:
(a) the financing, management and establishment of:
i) new undertakings;
ii) schemes for the expansion, better organisation,
modernisation and more beneficial exploitation
of any undertakings;
(b) the conduct of research into the industrial,
agricultural, mineral, maritime and commercial
potentialities of the country;
(c) the participation of private enterprise and capital,
whether from abroad or from within the country, in
the said activities;
(2)  Subject to the provision of Section 15 of this Ordinance,
in carrying out the objects provided for in subsection (1)
of this section, the Bank shall, when considering the
economic and commercial interests and the merits of any
undertaking, have due regard to the general economic in-
terests of the country."



Annex 2
Page 2
(3) While under Section 15 of the Ordinance the Minister of
Finance is empowered to give the Bank general directives
as to the policy to be followed by it under certain con-
ditions, the administration shall be in the hands of the
Managing Director subject to the control and supervision
of the Board of Directors.
II. RESOURCES
1.        The Bank, subject to the approval of the Bank of Mauritius,
would raise funds from public and private sources upon such terms and
conditions as the Board may determine by any or all of the following
means:
(1) negotiating loans within or outside Mauritius;
(2) the issue of bonds, debentures or certificates of
indebtedness;
(3) negotiations or arrangements with any bank for
overdrafts;
(h) acceptance of deposits on demand or at term.
2.        DBM will accept deposits from the public in the shape of
savings and fixed deposits and short-term bills, but the fixed deposits
will not be for a period of less than 1 year.
3.        The total amount of moneys borrowed, raised or guaranteed and
owing or outstanding shall not at any time exceed in the aggregate 3
times the total amount of the Paid-up Capital, Surplus and Reserves of
the DBM plus any loans and guarantees provided by the Government.
III. OPERATIONS
A. Industry
1.   The Bank will provide assistance to industry in the following
ways:
a) Medium and long term loans.
b) Equity participation (through underwriting, direct sub-
scription, conversion rights or in any other manner).
c) Issue of guarantees (arising out of payment for machinery
and equipment imported or otherwise or for any other
purpose).
d) Allotment of Sheds in Industrial Estates owned by the Bank.
e) In any other appropriate manner.



Annex 2
Page 3
2.   DBM's financial assistance will primarily be for expenditure
on fixed assets, save in exceptional cases where working
capital requirements, if they are not forthcoming from other
usual channels will be considered at the discretion of the
Board, provided adequate security as normally required for
its lending operations is available.
3.   The Bank will normally require that each loan is adequately
secured according to terms and conditions prescribed by the
Board at its discretion. It is, however, the present policy
(which is subject to modification at the discretion of the
Board and without any formal notice) to provide loaxsto the
extent of 50% (which may be extended to 75% depending on the
circumstances of each case) of the available security by way
of fixed assets.
4.   The total commitments of the DBM in a single enterprise -
loans, equity, guarantee and any other type of assistance -
will normally not exceed 15% of the DBM's Paid-up Capital,
Free Reserves and subordinated Government loan outstanding.
5.   The DBM's investments in the Share Capital of a single
enterprise will normally not exceed 25% of the Issued
Capital of the enterprise or 10% of the DBM's Capital,
Reserves and Subordinated Government Loan outstanding and
disbursement thereof will be proportionate to the amount
of capital paid-up. The DBM will normally not seek to
acquire controlling interests in any enterprise. Ihe
aggregate investments of the DBM in Share Capital of
enterprises will not exceed the DBM's Paid-up Capital, and
Free Reserves.
6.   Assistance by the Bank will be decided purely on merits of
each case. The feasibility of the project, its viability,
profitability, debt service coverage, the market potential,
its quality of management, its ability to earn foreign
exchange or save foreign exchange, the extent of employment
opportunities created and its ultimate contribution to the
economy of the country will be the paramount considerations
in deciding whether or not to render assistance to a project.
7.   The DBM may grant loans or provide other forms of assistance
either by itself or jointly with other institutions both
local and overseas.
8.   The period of the loans/assistance will depend upon a study
of each case depending on the repayment potential. The
period of repayments for loans will normally be 10 years
with or without repayment holidays according to the merits of
each case.



Annex 2
Page 4
9.   The Bank would, save in exceptional circumstances, expect
long-term debts of the Company charged against its fixed
assets not to exceed its Paid-up capital.
The Bank will normally require personal guarantees in the case of
Companies.
B.   Small Industries
In the case of Small Scale Industries, the Bank would lend
against the security of Fixed Assets of the borrower. Where
the primary security is not adequate, non-industrial assets
provided by the borrower may also be considered for acceptance
as security. In addition, the Bank may ask for the guarantee
of third parties wherever it is considered necessary. All
loans to Small Scale Industries i.e. loans to manufacturing
activities for loans below Rs. 10,000 will be automatically
guaranteed by the Government.  In deciding assistance to
Small Scale Industries, a liberal attitude will be taken
regarding the Loan/Fixed Assets Coverage.
C.   Industrial Estates
The DBM will also engage in the building of industrial
sheds in Industrial Estates and provide the sheds to
industries at reasonable rents and on such terms and
conditions fixed by the Board.
General Conditions
1.        The Bank, in cases where the Board considers appropriate,
would seek a right to convert its loans to industries into equity, It
will bethe policy of the Bank to gradually dispose its equity holdings
in the market or elsewhere and in so doing it will, to the extent possible,
see to it that the Shares are dispersed as widely as possible and that
the Shares do not, by such sale, get into the hands of rival groups.
2.        The DBM will have the right to inspect the enterprises including
their operations and accounts and will therefore have the right of access
to visit the factory at any time to carry out its inspections. The DBM
will require its borrowers to keep records and maintain accounts in
accordance with sound accounting practices and to furnish whatever in-
formation DBM may seek on their operations and accounts.
D. Agriculture
1.   The Bank will provide assistance to agriculture for the
following purposes:
a)  Application of planting materials, manure and fertilizers;
b)  diversification of crops;
c)  mechanical preParation of land;
d)  repayment of prior debts



Annex 2
Page 5
e) development of land including replantation and
planting of virgin soil;
f) improvement of yields
g) breeding and rearing of livestock.
2.   Agricultural loans are provided as under:
1) Sugar Cane Cultivation - The following are the
criteria:
(a) Loan applied for
(b) 60% security value
(c) Rs. 1,500 per arpent, and the loan sanctioned is
usually the lowest of the three figures of a, b & c.
2)  Tea Cultivation - The same criteria as for sugar
cultivation are applied though a value under D.2 (1) c
up to Rs. 2,000 per arpent may be considered.
3)  Other Agricultural Loans - In the context of agricultural
diversification and agro-industrial projects, loans may
be sanctioned between 50 to 75% of the project cost. It
is the present practice to limit this type of loan to
around 50% of the project cost.
IV. OTHER OONSIDERATIONS
1.   DBM will diversify its portfolio in order to spread its
risks widely so that such risks are kept at a reasonable
level. Such diversification will be sought to be achieved
through investment in different types of enterprises and
through different types of financing.
2.   DBM will lend and invest its resources in such a way as to
maintain the value of its capital. In appropriating its
profits, due care will be taken to see that adequate
reserves are built to provide for any bad debts, possible
losses or any other risks that the Bank may have to undertake.
3.   The DBM will not incur any exchange risk in respect of those
of its borrowings thct are repayable in foreign currencies.
DBM will pass to its clients any foreign exchange risk it
assumes or find other suitable means to cover it.
4.  DBM's assistance will be confined to private enterprises.
It will not provide assistance to industries owned by the
Government wholly or partly or in works undertaken by the
Government.



Annex 2
Page 6
5.   The current rates of interest on loans (which can be changed
by the Board without notice) are as under:
(a) 4h9 (Small Scale Industries)
(b) 890 (Other Industries)
(c) 6-7% (Agriculture)
DFCD
March 1972.



DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
ORGANIZATION CHART - JANUARY 1972
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MANAGING DIRECTOR                    SECRETARY/ACCOUNTANT
D.V. Narasimhan                          HC. Hardy
INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT           AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT
E.R. Siou                         A.K. Dulloo
Senior Investment Officer           Agricultural Officer
LEGAL SECTION    |                                       ACCOUNTING SECTION
z
z
m
x
DFCD)                                                                     World Bank-6557 (R)         c






Annex 4
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITItJS
Evolution of Operations 1966/67 . 1970/71
(In millions of Ra.)
Total
July     June
1966/67  1967/68  1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1966  - 19 1
APPROVALS                                                             Rs.
Loans
Medium and large scale industry    4.80    4.10       4.76      3.31     5.50    22.47    63.4
Small scale industry                0.01    0.05      0.03       -       0.02      0.11     0.3
Agriculture                         1.29    1.05      1.99      0.87     0.95      6.15    17,4
Equity investments                  1.20      -       0.58      2.46     2.47      6.71    18.9
Total Approvals          7.30    5.20      7.36     6.64      8.94     5.44  10o.o
CONMITMENTS
Loans
Medium and large scale industry    4.80    2.12       3.96      2.00     4.15    17.03    54.2
Small seale industry                0.01    0.02      0.05       -       0.02      0.10    0Q3
Agriculture                         0.95    0.81      0.52      0.75     o.67      3.70    11.8
uit  investments                  1.20       -      0.25      2.50     2.76      6.71    21,)
Industril esa s                     0.29    1.07      0.20      0.04     2.30      3_9_   1__
Total Commitments        7.25    h.o2      k2       5.29      2,&              loo.o
DISBURSEMENTS
Loans
Medium and large scale industry    4.63    3.87       2.85      2.18     3.31    16.84    61.7
Small scale industry                0.01    0.02      0.04      0.02       -       0.09     0.3
Agriculture                         0.94    0.88      0.55      0.71     0.60      3.68    13.6
Equity investments                   1.20     -       0.25      2.05     0.55      4.05    14.8
Indastrial estates                  0.29    1.07      0.20      0.04     0.90      2.50      9.6
Total Disbursements      7.07    5.84      3.89     5.00      5.36    27.16   100.0
DFCD
March 1972






Annex 5
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Distribution of Industrial Investments Approved From Inception to June 30, 1971
(In thousands of Rs.)
Rs.          %
Food, beverages and tobacco                          6,112        16.4
Clothing and shoes                                   3,938        10.5
Printing, stationery & paper conversion              2,490         6.7
Machinery, metal goods and light engineering         4,176        11.2
Chemicals, fertilizers & pharmaceuticals             5,367        14.4
Other manufacturing                                  3,077         8.2
Subtotal manufacturing                         25,16o        67.4
Agricultural processing                              2,522         6.7
Fishing and fish processing                          2,153         5.8
Subtotal crop & fish processing                 4,675        12.5
Hotels & Tourism                                     5,297        14.2
Shipping and ship repairs                            2,178         5.9
Subtotal services                               7,475        20.1
TOTAL APPROVALS                                37A310       100.0
DFCD
May 1972



Annex 6
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Analysis of Industrial Lending Operations* 1968/69-1970/71
(in millions of Rs.)
1968/69        1969/70         1970/71
No.  Amount    No. Amount    No. Amount
Applications under study of
beginning of period:                       28    9.3       10    5.0       23    20.5
Applications received
during period (net):                       16    8.2       37   20.9       33    11.8
Applications under study at
end of period:                             10    5.0       23   20.5       34    22.1
Applications processed                     34   12.5       24    5.4       22    10.0
of which:
Approved (net):                            24    4.8       20    3.3       19     5.5
Rejected or withdrawn:                     10    7.7        4    2.1        3     4t.
Contracts signed
during period:                             18    4.0       11    2.0      19      h.1
Loans outstanding at
beginning of period:                             13.4           15.5             16.4
Disbursements during-period:                     2.8             2.2              3.3
Repayments during period:                         0.7            1.3              2.2
Outstanding Loans at
end of period:                                  15.5            i6.4             17.5
"Excluding loans to small scale industries.
DFCD
March 1972



DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
List of Main Investments Approved in Industry and Tourism
Rs. Thousands
Equity
Date        Total              Amount        %     Direc-
Company                 Project        approved   investment   Loan  subscribed  holding  torship           Comments
Mauritius Chemical and
Fertilizer Ind. Ltd.         Fertilizer        June 1967    4,400        -     4,400 1/      28.6    Yes    In construction
Newi Mauritius Hotels         Hotel             Feb. 1966    3,451      2,237   1,214          29.0    Yes    In operation
Uniteed Hotel (Mauritius)     Hotel             Feb. 1972    2,000      2,000                                 In construction
Mauritius Steam Navigation   Shipping           June 1966    2,000      2,000                                  In operation
Mauritius Oil ttefineries     Edible oil        Jan. 1969    1,830      1,500      330        11.0    No       Paid 6% dividend 1970/7
Raymond 'Woolen Mills         Garments          July 1971    1,800      1,800                                 In start-up
Blyth Brothers                Fishing           May 1970     1,700      1,700                                 In operation
Uniiversal Board Co.          Bagasse board    May 1969       1,250     1,000      250         20.0    Yes    In start-up
IG(  Industries               Surgical gloves  May 1970       1,000     1,000                                 In operation
Dinaarobiri Inns & Motels     Hotel             July 1971       950       950                                  In construction
Mauritius Stationery          Stationery        Sept. 1968      900       900                                  In operation
IMEC (Mauritius)              Electronics       Dec. 1970       800       800                                  In operation
Fioreal Knitwear              Underwear         May 1971        700       700                                  In operation
........................
Int. Distillers & Vintrners  Spirits            Jan. 1970       450                450         42.0    Yes    In start-up
1/  Almount paid in:  as 1,760,000C



Annex 8
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Sumaarized Profit and Loss Accounts 1967/68 - 1970/71
1967/68    1968/69    1969/70    1970/71
A.  In thousands of Rs.
Gross income:
(including industrial           2,638       2,813      3,177       3,502
estate rentals)
Less:
Financial expenses               1,424      1,435       1,458      1,515
Salaries and admi 's-              551        586         598        585
trative expigses-
Depreciation-                       52        100          99        141
Profit before provisions         611        692      1,022       1,261
Provisions                         350        350        450         300
2/
Profit after provisions -        261        342        572         961
B.  As percentage of average assets        %           %          %          %
Gross income                         5.61        5.46       5.69       5.84
Financial expenses                3.03        2.78       2.61       2.43
Administrative expenses'          1.28        1.34       1.25       1.31
Profit before provisions        1.30        1,34      1.83        2.10
1/ Including industrial estates.
2/ DEM is exempt from payment of income taxes.
3/ Including depreciation.
DFCD
March 1972



Annex 9
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Summarized Balance Sheets 1968 - 1971
(In millions of R.)
1968   1969   1970   1971
ASSETS
Cash                                          1i1    0.8    0.9    1.1
Other current assets and interest accrued      1.1    1.4    1.8    1.7
Short-term investments                         o.6    2.5    2.6    4.3
Sinking fund investments                       4.9    6.o    6.8    8.3
Loans:
Agriculture (including tea)              23.6  22.5   22.0   20.9
Industry (including small scale)         13.4   15.5  16.4   17.6
Provision for bad debts                  (0.7)  (1.0)  (1.5)  (1.8)
Eoquity investments 2/                         1.4    1.6    3.5    401
Industrial estate'-                            1.5    2.2    2.2    3.0
Fixed assets (net)                             1.5    1.5   1.4    l.4
Total Assets                             48.4  53.0   56.1   60.6
Guarantees outstanding                          _      -       -     0 4
LIABILITIES
Deposits and current liabilities               1.3    1.5    1.8    1.9
Short-term loans                               3.2    2.9    2.9    4.3
Long-term loans and debentures                18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0
Government loans                              18.7   23.1   25.3   17.3
Paid-in capital                                 -      -       -   10.0
General & other reserves                       7.2    7.5    8.1    9.1
Total Liabilities & Net Worth            48.4  53.0   56.1   60.6
Guarantees Outstanding                          -      -      -      0.4
31
Term Debt/Equity Ratio                          -      -       -     1.8/1
1/ For fiscal years ending June 30.
~'/ Including leased equipment.
3/ Government loans had not yet been subordinated at the end of fiscal year 1971.
DFCD
March 1972



Annex  10
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Projected Operations 1971/72 - 1975/76
(In millions of Rs)
TOTAL
APPROVALS           1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  197/75  1975/76  PPOJECTED
(actual)
Loans:
Medium & large scale industry  ) 55        4.5       6.5   10.5       12.5    15.5       49 ,
Tourism                         ) *        3.0      3.5      3.5       4.0      5.0      10/,0
Small scale industry              -        0.2      0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       1,
Agriculture                      1.0       0.7      0.8      0.9       1.0      1.0      IJ 4
Equity investments
Industry                         2.4       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      10.0
Industrial estates               2.3       3,5     10.0   10.0        10.0     10.0      430r5
Total Approvals            11.2      13.9     23.0    27.1       29.7     33.7    1274,,8.,
COMMITENTS
Loans:
Industry & tourism
Foreign component      4 . 1  (   4.2     5.6    7.8        9.3    11.5
Local component     )       (   1.8       2.4     3.4       3.9       4.9
Small scale industry              -        0.2      0.2     0.2       0.2       0.2       1.0
Agriculture                      0.7       0.5      o.6    0.7         0.8      0.8       3.4
aulty investments
Industry                         2.8       2.0      2.0     2.0        2.0      2.0      10.0
Industrial estates               2.3       3.5     10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0        43.5
Total Comunitments         9.9      12.2     20.8    24.1       26.2     29.4    U12,7
DISBIJRSEIENTS
Loans:
Industry & tourism               3.3       4.8      6.4      9.0      10.6    13,2       44.0
Small scale industry              -        0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.5
Agriculture                      0.6       0.5      0.5     0.5        0.6      o.6       2.7
Subtotal                   3.9       5.4      7.0     9.6      11.3      13.9      3.72
Equity investments
Industry                         o.6       2.0      2.0     2.0        2.0      2.0      10.0
Industrial estates               0.9       3.5     10.0   10.0        10.0     10.0     43e5
Subtotal                   1.5       5.5    12.0    12.0        12.0     12.0      5 3 .5
Total Disbursements        5.14     10.9     19.0   21.6        23.3     25.q    100.1
DFMr,c  1
March 1972



Annex 11
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Resources Available for Coimaitunt
December 31, 1971
Millions of Re
Resources
Capital and reserves                                  19.1
Borrowings:
Debentures and bonds outstanding                 18.0
Government loans
drawn                                       20.3
committed                                    6.3
Deposits                                          3.9
Total resources                             67.6
Commitments
Loans outstanding (net)                               37*1
Equity investments outstanding                         4.1
Undisbursed commitments                                4.7
Sinking fund                                           8.3
Fixed assets and industrial estates                    5.1
Total comitaents                            59.3
Uncommitted resources                                  8.3
67.6
DFCD
March 1972.



Annex 12
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Projected Balance Sheets 1972-1976/'
(In millions of Rs.)
19712/ 1972   1973   1974   1975   I)7((
(actual)                                 -
ASSETS
Cash                                               1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1
Other current assets & interest accrued            1.7    1.7    1.7    1.l    1.7    1.7
Sinking fund & other s.t. investments             12.6   13.8   15.0   16.2   17.4   12.2
Loans outstanding
Agriculture                                   20.9   18.9   16.9   14.9   11.9    9
Industry (including small scale)              17.6   19.9   23.4   29.0   35.4   43.3
Provision for bad debts                       (1.8)  (2.3)  (2.4)  (2.6)  (2.8)  (3.2)
Equity investment                                  4.1    6.1    8.1   10.1   12.1   14.1
Industrial estates (net)                           2.5    5.8   15.5   24.8   33.9   42.6
Other fixed assets (net)                           1.9    1.9    1.8    1.8    1.7    1.7
Total Assets                                  60.6   66.9   81.1   97.0  1124        23.0
LIABILITIES & NET WORTH
Deposits & current liabilities                     6.2    6.4    6.6    6.9    7.0
Long-term loans & debentures                      18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0    2f
Government loans                                  17.3   22.4   31.4   31.4   31.4   ?-
IBRD I                                            -       -       3.6   16.7   17.9   1' I
Other long-term loans                             -       -      -        1.1   13.6   29.,
Paid-in capital                                   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Reserves                                           9.1   101   11.5   12.9   14.5   15.9
Total Liabilities & Net Worth                 60.6   66.9   81.1   97.0  112.4  123.0
Term Debt/Equity Ratio.!/                          0.5/1  0.4/1  0.4/1  0.7/1  0.9/1  1.0/1
1/Years ending June 30.
L/Audited
!/Government loans subordirLated to other debt & included with equity.
DFCD
March 1972



Annex 13
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAIRITIUS
Projected Cash,-flow 297.{l"2 -. 1975/76'
kin millions o0 HBO)
SOURCJ;S                    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76
Profit before provisions      1.5        1.5        1.6        1.8        1.8
Depreciation                  0.2        0.4        0.7        1.0        1.3
Loan recoveries               5.1        5.5        6.0        7.9        8.4
Borrowings: Govt. loans       5.1        9.0         -          -          -
IBRD I            -         3.6       13.1        1.2       (0.8)
Other             -          -         1.1       12.5       15.9
Debentures        -          -          -          -        (6.0)
Deposits                       -          -          -          -          -
Short-term borrowings         0.2        0.2        0.3        0.1        0.1
Total Sources           12.1       20.2       22.8       24.5       20.7
APPLICATIONS
Loan disbursements            5.4        7.0        9.6       11.3       13.9
Equity investments            2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0
Industrial estates            3.5       10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0
Sinking fund investments      1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2       (5.2)
Total Applications      12.1       20.2       22.8       24.5       20.7
DFCD
March 1972.



Annex 14
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Projected Profit and Loss Accounts 1971/72 - 1975/76
(in millions of Rs.)
1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 1973/74 1974/75 1975/76
(actual)
A. Income
Interest on loans                    2.4      2.5       2.7      3.1      3.5      4.0
Industrial estate rentals            0.1      0.3       o.6      1.2      1.8      2.3
Commissions, dividends, etc.         1.0      1.2      1.5       1.7      1.9      2.1
Gross income                      3.5      4.0      4.8       6.o      7.2      8.4
Less:
Financial expenses                   1.5      1.6       2.2      2.9      3.6      4.4
Administratill expenses              o.6      0.7       0.7      0.8      0.8      G.9
Depreciationr.'                      0.1      0.2      0.4       0.7      1.0      1.3
Profit before provisions          1.3      1.5      1.5       1.6      1.8      1.8
2/
Provisions-                          0.3      0.5       0.1      0.2      0.2        4
Profit after provisions           1.0      1.0       1.4      1.4      1.6      1.4
B. Profit after provisions on
average net worth:                   5.2%     5.1%      6.7%     6.3%     6.8%     5.6%
C. Performance on average assets (%)
Gross income                      5.8      6.1      6.3       6.6      6.7      6.9
Financial expenses     I/                   T-T     7.7      37        37       77
Administrative expenser;#         1.3      1.4      1.4       1.6      1.7      1.8
Profit before provisions          2.1      2.3      2.0       1.8      1.7      1.5
1/ Including industrial estates.
7/ To bring total provisions to 6% of total loan portfolio.
3/ Including depreciation.
DFCD
March 1972



Annex 15
Page 1
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Projection Assumptions
Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements (Annex 10)
DBM's yearly loan approvals will increase from Rs. 4.5 million
in FY 1972 to Rs 12.5 million in FY 1975.
Investment in hotels will be about Rs 60.0 million over the
same period and DBK's loan participation will be about 23%,
with yearly approvals rising from Rs 3.0 million in FY 1972
to Rs 4.0 million in 1975. The higher participation than in
industry is justified by the high proportion of long-term
funds required by these projects.
Loan approvals for small scale industries will not exceed
Rs 200,000 per annum.
New equity investment approvals will be about the same as in
the past two years, i.e., Rs 2.0 million per annum.
Investment approvals in industrial estates will be at the
level desired by the Government (see text).
Yearly loan commitmen1s to industry and tourism will be 80%
of the same year's loan approvals.
Yearly commitments to equity investments and industrial
estates will be the same as approvals. They will be disbursed
the same year.
Sixty-five percent of loan commitments to industry and tourism
will be for the foreign exchange cost of projects.
Yearly loan disbursements to industry and tourism will be 80%
of the same year's loan commitments.
2.     Projected Balance Sheets (Annex 12)
Provisions for bad debts are to be increased yearly 80 that
they equal 6% of the total loan portfolio.
No equity investments will be sold.



Annex 15
Page 2
The sinking fund is to be increased by Rs 1.2 million
per annum. Rs 6.0 million of debentures will be
repaid in FY 1976.
Additional requirements of long-term funds after 197h
are classified under "long-term loans."
All earnings are to be retained.
3.     Projected Profit and Loss Account (Annex 14)
-      Gross income on industrial loans disbursed after
December 31, 1971 will be 8.5% p. a. and 6.5% p. a.
on those disbursed before. Gross income on agricul-
tural loans will be 6.5% p. a.
-      Gross income fron industrial estates will be in accord
to DHM's present rental formula. Occupancy will be
80%.
-      The cost of DBM's borrowings from IDA and "other sources"
will be 7.25% p. a,
DFCD
May 1972



Annex 16
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
($ '000)
1/
1972         Fourth quarter                             100 -
1973         First quarter                              150
Second quarter                             450
Third quarter                              600
Fourth quarter                             650
1974         First quarter                              700
Second quarter                             600
Third quarter                              200
Fourth quarter                              50
Total                               3,500
1/ Estimated cost of study on industrial estates.
DFCD
May 1972



