CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 313 MAS
Project Agreement
(DBM Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
DATED JUNE 23, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 313 MAS
Project Agreement
(DBM Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
DATED JUNE 23, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,          dated       June     23,     1972,      between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS (hereinafter called
DBM).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Mauritius (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that DBM   agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS DBM, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Project;
Management and Operations of DBM
Section 2.01. DBM shall carry out the Project described in Section 3.01
of the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its operations and affairs with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, economic,
financial and investment standards and practices, with qualified and experienced
management and in accordance with the Ordinance and its Statement of Policy.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, DBM shall submit Investment Projects and
Industrial Estate Projects to the Association for approval or for authorization for
withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account.
(b)   When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan) or an
investment for an Investment Project to the Association for approval, DBM shall
furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to the Association,
together with a description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the
Investment Project (including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit) and the proposed terms and conditions
of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule of amortization of the
sub-loan, or of repayment to the Borrower of the amount of the Credit to be
used for the investment, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(c)   Each request by DBM     for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d)   When submitting an investment for an Industrial Estate Project to the
Association for approval, DBM shall furnish to the Association an application, in
form satisfactory to the Association, together with a description of the Industrial
Estate Project (including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit) and the proposed terms and conditions of renting,
leasing or selling the Industrial Estate Project, including the schedule of repayment
to the Borrower of the amount of the Credit to be used for the investment, and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(e)   The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan and the schedule
of repayment to the Borrower in respect of each investment shall provide for an
appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, (i) shall not extend beyond twenty years for Industrial Estate
Projects and Investment Projects for tourism and fifteen years for other Investment
Projects, from the date of approval by the Association of such sub-loan or
investment or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan of authorization by the Association
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall
provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments
9


﻿5
of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-annual or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(f)   Except as the Association and DBM shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section shall
be submitted to the Association on or before December 31, 1974.
Section 2.03. DBM shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
the Industrial Estate Projects, the sub-loans and investments.
Section 2.04. (a) DBM shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project financed under a sub-loan or with an investment in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Association and of DBM, to comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and to achieve the
purposes of the Project.
(b)   DBM undertakes that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, any
sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby DBM shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Association and of DBM, including, in
the case of any such sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in
the case of any such investment, the right of DMB to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (A) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them, and (B) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project:
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if the
Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice and that, without
any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and
other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods


﻿6
financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan or investment to the place of use
or installation; (v) obtain all such information as the Association or DBM shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and (vi) suspend or terminate
the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan
or investment upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations
under its contract with DBM.
Section 2.05. In carrying out the Feasibility Study, DBM shall engage before
September 1, 1972, or such other date as may be agreed between the Association
and DBM, and employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association and with terms of reference acceptable
to the Association.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DBM shall
ensure that its total investments in industrial estates do not at any time exceed
fifteen per cent (15%) of the consolidated capital and surplus of DBM and all
its subsidiaries as defined in Section 3.03 (e) of this Agreement.
Section 2.07. DBM shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DBM shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. DBM shall cause each of its subsidiaries (if any) to observe
and perform the obligations of DBM under this Agreement to the extent to which
the same shall or can be applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding
upon each of such subsidiaries.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. DBM shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project and of each Investment Project and each Industrial Estate Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
DBM.
Section 3.02. DBM shall: (a) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.


﻿7
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied; (b) furnish to
the Association, as soon as available but in any case not later than three months
after the end of each such year, certified copies of its audited financial statements
f6r such year and an audit report by the said auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of DBM and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and DBM shall otherwise agree, DBM
shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring
of such debt, the consolidated debt of DBM and all its subsidiaries then incurred
and outstanding would exceed three times the consolidated capital and surplus
of DBM and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   The term "debt" means any debt incurred by DBM or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
including debt assumed or guaranteed by DBM or by a subsidiary.
(b)   Wherever reference is made in this Section to the incurring of debt,
such reference shall include any modification of the terms of payment of such
debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan contract or agreement
on the date and to the extent the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant
to such loan contract or agreement and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only
to the extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Rupees debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made
at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation. obtainable by DBM for the purposes of servicing such
debt.
(d)   The term "consolidated debt of DBM and all its subsidiaries" means
the total amount of debt of DBM and all its subsidiaries, excluding (i) debt owed
by DBM to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to DBM or to any other subsidiary
and (ii) debt referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) of this Section.
(e)   The term   "consolidated capital and surplus of DBM   and all its
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of (i) the total unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus
and free reserves of DBM and of all its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such
amounts as shall represent equity interests of DBM in any subsidiary, or of any


﻿8
such subsidiary in DBM or in any other subsidiary, and (ii) the amount of the
Government Loans as shall be repayable after the latest of the dates of all
outstanding maturities of the sub-loans and of the schedules of repayment to the
Borrower in respect of the investments.
Section 3.04. DBM shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any of its outstanding debt which, in the judgment of the Association,
would materially affect DBM's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.05. DBM shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in
the rates of exchange between the currencies (including Rupees) used in its lending
and borrowing operations.
Section 3.06. DBM shall keep separate accounts relating to loans made under
Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and DBM shall cooperate fully to ensure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and DBM shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; the
administration, operations and financial condition of DBM and other matters
relating to the purpose of the Credit.
(b)   DBM   shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall resonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of DBM and its subsidiaries.
Section 4.02. The Association and DBM shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
DBM of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and the accounts referred
to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿9
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of DBM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify DBM of this event and, upon the giving of such
notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall forthwith
terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿10
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For DBM:
Development Bank of Mauritius
P.O. Box 157
Mauritius
Port Louis
Cable address:
Devbank
Mauritius
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of DBM may be taken or executed by the Managing Director or such other person
or persons as DBM shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. DBM shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of DBM, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by DBM pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
By /s / Pierre Guy Girald Balancy
Authorized Representative
9


