CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 313 MAS
Development Credit
Agreement
(DBM Project)
BETWEEN
MAURITIUS
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 23, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 313 MAS
Development Credit
Agreement
(DBM Project)
',ETWEEN
MAURITIUS
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 23, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1972, between MAURITIUS (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement, as it may be amended from time to time, by extending the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by Development Bank of Mauritius
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to Development Bank of Mauritius the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Development Bank of Mauritius;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in
paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(b)   The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.


﻿4
(c)  Paragraph (h) of Section 6.02 is deleted and paragraph (i) of such
Section becomes paragraph (h).
(d)  Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02 (f) of the Project
Agreement no applications for approval or requests for authoriLation to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of any portion of the Credit
shall have been received by the Association, or having been so received, shall
have been denied or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Credit
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals
and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the
case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Credit shall be
cancelled."
(e)  The words ", the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06.
(f)  The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "DBM" means the Development Bank of Mauritius.
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and DBM, as such agreement may be amended from time
to time.
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DBM pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
(d)   "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to ba made by
DBM to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the proceeds


﻿5
of the Credit relent to DBM under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "free-limit
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(e)   "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan, made or
proposed to be made by DBM in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to DBM uder the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, or an investment in an Industrial Estate Project to be made directly
by DBM.
(f)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which DBM proposes
to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made
an investment.
(g)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment.
(h)   "Industrial Estate Project" means a specific project undertaken by
DBM of constructing and leasing buildings suitable for industrial enterprises.
(i)   "Feasibility Study" means the study described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement.
(j)   "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of the Borrower.
(k)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Borrower.
(1)   "Ordinance" means the Development Bank of Mauritius Ordinance
1963, as amended from time to time, or any other enactment repealing and
replacing such Ordinance.
(m)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of general policy of DBM
as adopted and approved by its Board of Directors on October 27, 1971, as
amended from time to time.
(n)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by DBM or by any one or more subsidiaries of DBM or by DBM and
one or more of its subsidiaries.


﻿6
(o)   "Government Loans" means loans made by the Borrower to DBM from
time to time for the purpose of financing DBM's operations and subordinated to
all debt for the purpose of liquidation.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand
dollars ($3,500,000), for use by DBM.
Section 2.02. (a) Pursuant to Section 2.08 of this Agreement, except as
otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, DBM, on behalf of the
Borrower, may withdraw from the Credit Account amounts expended (or, if the
Association shall agree, shall be required to meet expenditures to be made) by
DBM, in a foreign currency for goods procured, or services supplied from, outside
the territories of the Borrower, in Rupees on account of seventy-five percent (75%)
of the invoiced price for goods previously imported into its territory through normal
trade channels, and in Rupees on account of fifty percent (50%) of the invoiced
price for goods produced in the territory of the Borrowcr to a substantial extent
from materials previously imported into its territory, to finance the reasonable
foreign currency cost of such goods or services in respect of which the withdrawal
is requested for:
(i)        Investment Projects, up to a maximum of $3,000,000;
(ii)       Industrial Estate Projects, up to a maximum of $400,000; and
(iii)      the feasibility study, up to a maximum of $100,000;
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan or
investment unless (a) the sub-loan or investment shall have been approved by the
Association; or (b) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the
Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan in an amount to be financed
under the Development Credit Agreement which, together with any other amount
or amounts previously financed for the same project under the Development Credit
Agreement, and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
$50,000 and which, when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed under


﻿7
the Development Credit Agreement, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of $750,000, the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time
as determined by the Association.
(c)   Except as the Association and DBM shall otherwise agree and subject
to the provisions of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions as modified in this
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by
an Investment Enterprise or DBM in respect of (i) a sub-loan subject to the
Association's approval, or an investment, more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Association shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or
investment the application and information required under Section 2.02 (b) of
the Project Agreement or (ii) under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the request and
information required by Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04 The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
-      amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1982 and ending January 1, 2022, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.08. DBM is irrevocably designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.


﻿8
ARTICLE IHl
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Project for which the Credit is granted
is to assist DBM in financing the development of productive facilities and resources
in the territories of the Borrower. The Project consists of:
(a)   the financing by DBM of private development projects through loans
to and investments in entern-qes in the territories of the Borrower in accordance
with the Ordinance and      Statement of Policy of DBM;
(b)   the financing by DBM of Industrial Estate Projects; and
(c)   a study to be carried out by DBM with the assistance of consultants
to prepare proposals for the future course of Industrial Estate Projects after the
middle of 1973.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall take and
cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable DBM to perform
all the obligations set forth in the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
be expended on Investment Projects and Industrial Estate Projects to DBM under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and DBM
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association,
and shall make available as a grant to DBM  the proceeds of the Credit to be
expended on the Feasibility Study.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Particuiar Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower undertakes to meet the cost incurred by DBM
in admioisteAing its small scale industries loan program as described in its Statement
of Policy.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall guarantee any loans made by DBM after
July 1, 1972 for refinancing debts of agricultural enterprises at the request of
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by DBM of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the performance by the respective parties of their respective obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of DBM, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions -n the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by DBM of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿10
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6,03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of DBM
under the Project Agreement;


﻿w                                   11
(b)   a change shall have been made in the Ordinance or in the Statement
of Policy so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project
or the objectives, operations or financial condition of DBM or the efficiency of
DBM's management or personnel;
(c)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to DBM having an original
maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have become
due and payable in advance of maturity, as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(d)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of DBM;
(e)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by DBM, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would adversely
affect the conduct of DBM's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its
management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project; or
(f)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that DBM will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in Section 7.02 (a), (b) or (e) of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in Section 7.02 (c) or (d) of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
DBM have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;


﻿12
(b)  The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and DBM, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c)  The amendment of Section 12 (i) of the Ordinance in a form
acceptable to the Association.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, DBM, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of DBM in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and DBM,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
DBM in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date August 22, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 through
4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius


﻿13
Cable address:
Minfin
Port Louis
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
MAURITIUS
By /s / Pierre Guy Girald Balancy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President


