Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15705
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
(CR. 1853-CV)
June 4, 1996
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = CV Esc. 72.4 (at appraisal, 04/15/87)
US$ I = CV Esc. 81.07 (at closing, 06/30/95)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
CV Esc.       Cape Verdean Escudos
DGA           Director General of Administration
DPD           Deputy Project Director
DGP           Director General of Planning
EBC           1-4 yr.-Basic Elementary Education
EBE           5-6 yr.-Basic Supplementary Education
EBI           1-6 yr.- Basic Education System
FCG           Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation
FEE           Fundo Edicao Escolar (Textbook Revolving Fund)
GOCV          Government of Cape Verde
ICASE         Cape Verdean Institute for School Social Action
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
IP            Instituto Pedagogico (Institute of Education)
MIS           Management Information System
MOE           Ministrv of Education
PAC           Project Advisory Committee
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PREBA         Primary Education Upgrading Project
PRESE         Education System Restructuring & Expansion Project
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SSA           Sub-Saharan Africa
FISCAL YEAR                                                     SCHOOL YEAR
January 1-December 31                                           Octoberl-June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
(Credit 1853 - CV)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES                              .2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR
FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                .5
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                  .6
E. BANK PERFORMANCE                                     .6
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                    .7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                   .8
H. FUTURE OPERATION                                     .9
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                   .9
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table I  Summary of Assessments .1
Table 2   Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits .13
Table 3  Project Timetable .13
Table 4  Credit Disbursements .14
Table 5 & 6  Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation .15
Table 7      Studies included in the Project ..................................        17
Table 8      Project Costs ..................................                          19
Table 9      Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................            19
Table 10     Status of Legal Covenants ..................................              20
Table 11     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................................  24
Table 12     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..................................           24
Table 13     Bank Resources: Missions ..................................               25
APPENDICES
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR, Portuguese version
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR, English translation (no official)
MAP
Ms document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
(Credit 1853-CV)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Primary Education
Upgrading Project in Cape Verde (Cr. 1853-CV), for which a credit in the amount of SDR
3.3 million (US$ 4.20 million equivalent) was approved on November 24, 1987 and made
effective on March 15, 1988.
2.    The credit was closed on June 30, 1995. Ninety-five percent of the credit was
disbursed (SDR 179,802 remained), and the final disbursement took place on January 10,
1996. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation
(FCG).
3.    The ICR was prepared by Carmen E. Perez- Castano (Task Manager AF5PH),
with contributions from Mr. Emesto Toro (Education Specialist/Consultant) and Sandra
Aresta (AF5PH), and edited by Mrs. Pushpa N. Schwartz. It was reviewed by
Messrs/Mimes Rosemary Bellew (Acting Division Chief, AF5PH), Emmerich Schebeck
(Projects Advisor, AF5DR), William Cooper (Education Consultant), and Slahedinne Ben-
Halima former task manager of the project.
4.    Preparation for this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission of February 1995, and continued during a second mission in April 1996. It is
based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and other materials in the Project
file, field visits, and discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The Borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by submitting a separate evaluation of project
implementation, providing information for statistical tables, and approving the draft of the
ICR.
5.    The outcome of the project was highly satisfactory. It exceeded its major
objectives. The chances of sustainability are relatively high.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
(Credit 1853-CV)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The primary education system in Cape Verde had been limited until the early 1990s to
four years of schooling, and was not well-suited to the post-independence socio-economic and
political realities in the country. The Primary Education Upgrading Project (PREBA) was the
first social sector project supported by IDA to address deficiencies in the basic education
system.
Project Objectives
2.    The overall objectives of PREBA were to provide the policy and institutional
framework together with the necessary educational inputs for establishing an integrated six-
year basic education system (EBI), as well improving education sector management.
Specifically, the project sought to: (a) prepare, implement, and evaluate the new EBI
curriculum in the Municipality of Santa Cruz; (b) upgrade the quality of primary school
teachers; (c) increase the availability of textbooks, teaching materials, and school supplies; and
(d) improve education sector management by introducing institutional reform.
3.    Special covenants were designed to: (i) monitor budgetary allocations to the Ministry
of Education (MOE); the Government of Cape Verde (GOCV) was to provide about 18% of
its recurrent budget to MOE; (ii) monitor progress achieved by MOE's institutional units in the
implementation of their annual programs; this activity was monitored by the African
Development Bank (AfDB) under the Education System Restructuring and Expansion Project
(PRESE); and (iii) set annual targets for the teacher/pupil ratio and increase the ratio from
1:30 in 1988 to 1:36 between 1988 and 1994.
4.    Project objectives were consistent with GOCV's education sector development
strategy and appropriate to Cape Verde's stage of development and conditions in primary
education. They targeted key issues such as extending basic education by an additional two
years for all children and strengthening institutional capacity for educational reform. The
objectives to improve educational quality, teaching methods, educational materials, and
management efficiency were elements in building the base for further improvements in
education. The project design was complex and demanding. The complexity arose from
attempting simultaneous changes in three areas: the basic education system, the MOE
structure, and societal attitudes to have the EBI accepted. The project proved to be demanding
on MOE's management and resources.



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project was successful in achieving most objectives; the EBI reform was fully
implemented, while the institutional reform was partially effected. To restructure the basic
education system, a new curriculum plan was developed, tested, and officially approved. New
syllabi, teaching guides, and textbooks were produced and distributed to teachers and students.
Teachers were given in-service and pre-service training in new methods and to teach students
in all six grades. Textbook and teaching material and teacher training numerical targets were
all exceeded. The training program was carried out by the Institute of Education (IP), created
under PREBA. Teacher salaries and career status were upgraded. Capacity was created
within the country to develop textbooks and teaching materials. Teacher/pupil ratio rose to
1:33. A textbook cost-recovery system was introduced.
6.    On the institutional front, reform was launched by the Organic Law (1987) that aimed
to redistribute responsibilities among the various MOE units. PREBA helped strengthen
MOE's planning capacity through support for data collection, a computerized database, and
studies related to EBI. Establishing the IP in MOE developed capacity for curriculum design,
educational materials, and teaching training. Decentralization and greater autonomy to local
levels for planning was started through training and technology inputs.
7.    The project was completed within the financial limits set at appraisal, but had to be
extended by a year because of delays in civil works procurement and textbook publishing.
8.    Key factors that affected achievement of major project objectives include: strong
GOCV commitment to the EBI reform and effective coordination with donor agencies in its
design and implementation. However, the simultaneous implementation of PRESE and
PREBA in the area of institutional reform taxed MOE's coordination capacity. Project
implementation suffered from insufficient coordination among MOE units and weak project
management structure and staffing, particularly in the early stages. Staff turnover and lack of
knowledge and training in procurement procedures were aggravated by insufficient IDA
supervision. Uncertainty arising from transitional political changes due to the 1991 multi-party
elections as well as resistance to the EBI reform were successfully overcome, with the new
government showing a greater sense of ownership toward PREBA, and resistance to EBI being
overcome through successful social mobilization.
9.    IDA took an active part in project preparation, and the Government was provided
valuable assistance by the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation (FCG) and UNESCO in project
design. Insufficient knowledge of IDA procedures, procurement, and accounting and a weak
project management structure in MOE led to problems that were not recognized early enough.
IDA supervision was inadequate during PREBA's critical early stages. Major implementation
problems identified in early 1992 led to the devising of an Emergency Program to correct them.
The mid-term review registered good progress. Subsequent supervision was helpful in
overcoming bottlenecks.
10.   GOCV's strong commitment to EBI reform was reflected in its active role in project
identification and preparation. While initial implementation was weak due to a lack of
familiarity with IDA procedures and procurement and the project management structure, it



iii
improved substantially after the Emergency Program and with the creation of the new Project
Coordination Unit. Annual progress reports were prepared by MOE as required. Audit
reports were mostly qualified. The reports reflected a weak accounting system and lack of
procedures and internal control. Some improvements were made by establishing a new
accounting system, after a full-time accountant was appointed and the appropriate technology
was introduced.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
11.   On balance, project outcome is highly satisfactory. Basic education was restructured.
The quality of teaching materials and teaching was improved and significant local capacity
developed for the production of teaching materials. The share of budgetary allocation for basic
education increased. A core body of laws and regulations affecting the basic education system
is in place. EBI has been accepted by the principal actors and the community at large.
Management in the education sector has improved. A new structure is in place in the MOE; its
capacity for planning and managing EBI has been strengthened and staff trained in data
collection and management
12.   The next IDA project for Basic Education and Training will continue support for the
nation-wide expansion of EBI; improve the relevance of technical education and training; and
enhance the institutional capacity of MOE, the Ministry of Labor, Youth, and Social Action,
and related institutions to implement policies and programs. The key lessons summarized
below have been built into the design of the next project.
13.   Lessons for the future include: (i) Careful attention must be given to designing and
setting up the project management and coordination capacity in a country to ensure successful
implementation and a realistic timetable set for attaining institutional reform objectives. (ii)
Complex project management arrangements do not work well in the absence of a high degree
of internal coordination within a ministry that is undergoing institutional restructuring itself
(iii) Simultaneous externally financed projects to strengthen institutional capacity run the risk of
overtaxing the agency's managerial resources, without there being greater institutional and
coordination capacity already in place. (iv) Financial accounting systems must be established
and be operational at credit effectiveness. (v) Supervision must be adequate, timely, and well-
focused. (vi) For the education sector, the following lessons apply: specialized technical
assistance from an extemal partner, throughout the life of a project can make an important
difference to the outcome; pilot testing can be a useful and necessary step in implementing a
nation-wide change in education; social mobilization to develop public consensus in favor of
educational reform is important; and sequencing of investments, given limited resources for
education reform, means focusing first on design, methods, materials, content, and pilot testing,
and afterwards on geographical expansion and investments in physical infrastructure.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
(Credit 1853-CV)
PART I- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The overall objectives of the Primary Education Upgrading Project (PREBA) were to
provide the policy and institutional framework, together with the necessary educational inputs
for establishing an integrated six-year basic education system (EBI), as well to improve
education sector management. Specifically, the project sought to: (a) prepare, implement, and
evaluate the new six-year integrated basic education system in the Municipality of Santa Cruz;
(b) upgrade the quality of primary school teachers; (c) increase the availability of textbooks,
teaching materials, and school supplies; and (d) improve education sector management by
introducing institutional reform.
2.    Project objectives were consistent with the Government of Cape Verde's (GOCV's)
education sector development strategy and in line with IDA's education sector policies. They
were appropriate and relevant to Cape Verde's stage of development and conditions in the
primary education sub-sector, which was already very close to achieving four years of universal
primary education. They were important for the education sector since they targeted key
issues such as extending basic education by an additional two mandatory years for all children
and strengthening institutional capacity for educational reforms. They were elements in
building the base for further improvements in education. The education reform objectives were
clear and realistic and could be translated into actions, most of which could be monitored
through established quantitative targets. Institutional objectives, however, were not as clearly
defined, and they were not as readily subject to measurement.
3.    The project design was complex and demanding. The complexity arose from
attempting simultaneous changes in the basic education system, the MOE structure, and
societal attitudes to have the EBI accepted. Although the EBI was based on new values
emerging from the post-independence milieu in the country and was better suited to Cape
Verde's socio-economic and political realities, the society was not fully prepared for the
change. In the new EBI system, grades 5-6 were no longer urban-based and highly selective,
and each subject was no longer to be taught by a separate teacher; instead every teacher was
trained to teach all the subjects in these two grades.



2
4.    The project proved to be demanding on MOE's management. The changes under
PREBA to establish the EBI required actions by, and coordination among, many MOE units
that were undergoing organizational transition themselves. Implementation of PREBA also
required that MOE have a significant level of competence in management and leadership and
knowledge of IDA procedures. But the MOE was poorly equipped in terms of staff,
procedures, and communication channels. The challenge of undertaking reforms both to
improve the basic education system and its own institutional structure, within the tight
timetable set for the project, proved difficult.
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    Restructuring of the Basic Education System. This objective was substantially
achieved. The restructuring of the basic education system entailed two activities. The first was
to develop the curriculum, teaching materials. pedagogical methods, and student examination
and promotion policies for EBI. By the end of PREBA, the following elements were achieved:
-     A new basic education curriculum plan was successfully developed and officially
approved. Every teacher was equipped to teach all subjects in each of the grades, 1-6.
-      gNew syllabi were developed, printed, and distnbuted to each of the trained teachers for the
three core subjects--Portuguese, math, and science-as well as one syllabus for music, art,
and physical education. Textbooks for the three core subjects and teaching guides were
also produced. The production of textbooks and teaching guides was a significant
complishment, as this had not been done before in Cape Verde.
-     Pedagogical methods were improved through the use of teaching guides and training that
enabled a single teacher to teach all subjects at a particular grade level.
-     New student examination andpromotion policies were established and implemented.
6.    The second activity involved in restructuring the basic education system was the
imoplementation and evaluation of EBI in the Mumcipalitv of Santa Cruz. The new EBI curriculum
was pilot tested in two stages.
The first piot test was conducted in Santa Cruz in 14 classes m grades I to 4, during
1989-91. The test results were inconclusive because the sample was not representafive,
syllabi and teaching materials were incomplete, and administrative support was inadequate.
In the second stage, 1992-94, the pilot test was conducted in four municipalities (Praia,
Santa Cruz, Santa Catarina, and San Vicente). The student sample was enlarged to 18
classes in grades 1-6, and was more representative. Over this two-year test period, training
courses for participating teachers were conducted by consultants financed by the Calouste
Gulbenkian Foundation (FCG). Introduction of the EBI was monitored and evaluated by
surveying reactions from parents, teachers, and 5-6 grade students. The survey and
evaluation results favored EBI classes over the traditional classes.



3
The second stage test results paved the way for the nation-wide expansion of EBI, which
had gained strong support from the community as well as the teachers responsible for
making it work.
7.    Upgrading the Quality of Primary School Teachers. This objective was
substantially achieved. Upgrading the quality of primary teachers included three elements. (i)
In-service teacher training: An innovative modular program was designed for in-service teacher
training; some 1,600 teachers were trained, exceeding the initial target by 33%.
8.    (ii) Pre-service teacher training: A new pre-service training program was designed and
was to be conducted by the Institute of Education (IP), that was legally established by the
Government in 1988 as a condition of credit effectiveness. However, construction of the IP
facilities was delayed by four years due to management problems and unfamiliarity with
procurement procedures. Because of the delay, during 1988-91, pre-service teacher training
continued under the existing Escola do Magisterio Prnmanio, which could only train teachers
in the old curriculum. As an ad hoc emergency measure, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU),
established in MOE in 1992, trained teachers and the produced teaching materials. It was
reinforced with the necessary specialists to assume this additional work. The IP was finally
established in 1992, and the PCU transferred to the IP its staff in teacher training, curriculum
development, and teaching materials. The IP is now fully operational and is conducting pre-
service training for 210 teachers a year.
9.    (iii) Teacher salarv scales and career status: Promulgation of the Teaching Profession
Statute in 1993 resulted in the redefinition of teacher career progression, new job descriptions,
and better linkage between professional training and qualifications and salaries. These changes
vastly improved the career status of teachers; all teachers who had received in-service training
were reclassified, and in 1994 their salaries increased on average by 26%, meeting the project
target The project contributed to the total cost of salaries for up-graded teachers; the salaries
are being entirely paid by the Government since 1995. Although the measures for upgrading
teachers were implemented behind project schedule due to some time lags in teacher training,
the training and career development opportunities have helped to upgrade the profession and
motivated teachers in favor of EBI.
10.   Increase the Availability of Textbooks and Teaching Materials. This objective
was substantially met. It was achieved by implementing two measures. (i) Strengthening local
capacities for textbook development and improving textbook production and distribution.
PREBA sought to build and increase local capacity to develop textbooks, teaching materials,
and school supplies needed to support the new curriculum and it accomplished this objective.
Some delays were experienced early on in textbook development and publishing, caused in part
by the technical assistance for textbook design not being available on time, the repetition and
delay of pilot testing, and the lack of MOE's experience in planning and procurement. About
700,000 textbooks were printed in the three core subjects -- Portuguese, math, and science --
for the six grades in the new EBI system, far exceeding the 430,000 envisaged in the Staff



4
Appraisal Report. Intemational competitive bidding and local design and editing led to lower
costs and thus a larger number of textbooks and teaching materials could be produced.
Textbooks in science had not initially been planned, since a recent edition was in use.
However, to ensure consistency, science textbooks were also prepared. In total, 17 titles were
produced in the different subject areas. To assist teachers, 18 different teacher guides were
written, printed, and distributed, totaling 30,000 units, far greater than the 9,000 originally
planned. Staff in the IP was trained in curriculum development and textbook production.
Administrative personnel was also trained in textbook warehousing and distribution, although
some difficulties with distribution of textbooks should be resolved, as school districts are
spread out all over the archipelago.
11.   (ii) Introducing a cost-recovery system for textbooks. A textbook revolving fund was
started in 1992 and legalized three years later as the Fundo Especial de Edicao (FEE).
Textbooks are sold to students and the money is deposited in the FEE bank account to create
financial autonomy for publishing new books as needed. FEE has two different sources of
funds: from parents buying books at cost and from private dealers' sale of textbooks. The
proportion of parents able to afford textbooks is small, however. The Cape Verdean Institute
for School Social Action (ICASE) distributes books, partly financed by UNICEF, free of
charge to needy students.
12.   Improve Education Sector Management. This objective was partially met.
Institutional reform was aimed at establishing a new administrative structure at the MOE,
improving work methods and standards, and implementing a staff upgrading program.
13.   The MOE restructurinz was launched by the Organic Law (1987) that aimed to
redistribute responsibilities among the various MOE units. During PREBA implementation,
MOE was restructured and responsibilities were redistributed among the various units.
14.   Improvements in work methods and standards and staff upgrading in MOE were
partially carried out. PREBA principally supported the development of management skills
related to the EBI reform, while PRESE focused on MOE's institutional strengthening and
secondary education reform. PREBA strengthened the capacity of the Directorate of Planning
by supporting data collection through a computerized database and studies related to EBI. In
establishing the IP under the MOE's Directorate of Education, PREBA developed capacity in
the ministry for curriculum design, textbook development and distribution, more effective
teacher training, and implementing a new system for student evaluation and promotion. MOE
staff capacity was also strengthened through technical assistance, training, as well as by
"learning by doing" in designing and implementing project components. Decentralization and
autonomy to the local levels through the municipal councils and MOE local-level "delegations"
was started. More data collection and planning for basic education is now being done at the
local levels; tools --training and technology (computers and fax machines)-- were provided for
this purpose. A major outcome of the decentralization efforts was the creation of a
decentralized management information system (MIS).



5
15.   The foundation has been laid for achieving further improvements in MOE's
institutional capacity, e.g., increasing coordination among MOE units, greater clarification of
functions among the units, further development of skills at both the central and local levels, and
increasing the reliability of data. These improvements are being sought in the follow-up Basic
Education and Training Project (IDA Credit 2675-CV for SDR 7.8 million, US$11.5million
equivalent, effective in May 1995), which is building upon and consolidating the progress and
accomplishments attained during PREBA.
16.   Special covenants: (i) Monitoring budgetary allocations to MOE. GOCV has
provided sufficient budget allocations to MOE, equivalent to 18% of the recurrent budget.
Data on budget figures show that MOE's share of the recurrent budget was 18.9% in 1991;
18.3 % in 1992; 18.6% in 1993; and 17.6% in 1994. (ii) Progress achieved by MOE's
institutional units in the implementation of their annual programs; this activity was monitored
under PRESE. (iii) Set annual targets for the teacher/pupil ratio and increase the ratio to 1:36
between 1988 and 1994. The teacher/pupil ratio increased from 1:30 in 1988 to 1:33 in the
school year 1989/90, where it has remained. The planned target of 1:36 could not be reached.
With the elimination of the triple shift classes, a teacher taught fewer children on average,
probably teaching only one shift or possible two shifts at most; hence, the teacher: pupil ratio
could not be raised quickly. The elimination of the triple shift was carried out to give students
more time-in-school (i.e. in a given classroom) and to bring about quality improvements in the
education they received.
Under the IDA-assisted Second Basic Education and Training Project, a better deployment of
existing and newly recruited teachers is expected.
C.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
17.   Implementation of the project was affected by several extenal and intemal factors.
The external factors were: (i) the uncertainty arising from the transitional political changes as a
result of the 1991 multi-party elections and a new national Govemment; and (ii) the resistance
from teachers, parents, and the community to changes inherent in the EBI reform. The first
factor was mitigated by the new MOE authorities and IDA staff working together to identify
the positive accomplishments and potentials of the EBI reform, thereby creating a positive
attitude toward and a greater sense of ownership of PREBA on the part of the new GOCV.
The second factor was successfully overcome by public-opinion mobilization -- through a radio
and TV information campaign -- undertaken by the MOE during the second stage of the EBI
pilot test. The teachers trained through the EBI in-service training, roughly one-half of all the
teachers in basic education, also served as advocates to turn around attitudes in favor of the
EBI reform.
18.   The major internal factors were: (i) Government initiative in developing the Second
National Plan, mobilizing donors, and collaborating with them on project design and
implementation; (ii) the simultaneous implementation of two extemally financed projects
supporting institutional reform, at a time when MOE coordination capacity was weak, created



6
heavy demands on the ministry; (iii) initial weak project management; and (iv) weak IDA
capacity to react to implementation delays, characterized by insufficient supervision initially
and rotating consultants, made the devising of an emergency program essential in order to put
the project on track.
19.   One of major intemal factors affecting project implementation was initial weak project
management. The arrangements for project management were based on the principle that
implementation would be carried out by the appropriate MOE units to ensure that each of them
would acquire the necessary skills and experience needed for future development of the
educational system. Responsibility for EBI reform, including teacher training and textbook
provision, was placed under the Director General of Planning (DGP), assisted by a Deputy
who was also the Deputy Project Director (DPD), reporting directly to the Minister of
Education. The Director General of Administration (DGA) was to provide administrative
support to the DGP for civil works implementation, project financing, and disbursements. To
ensure coordination for project activities, a Project Advisory Committee (PAC) was to be
established comprising the DGP as Chairman, the DPD, the DGA, the Director General of
Public Works, the Director General of Education, and the Inspector General. PAC was to
review progress on a quarterly basis and plan future project activities. The early years of
project implementation (1988-91) showed that these arrangements were complex and did not
work well. In addition to PREBA, the DGP was charged with implementation of the AfDB-
financed PRESE. The DGP's Deputy changed frequently so that project management lacked
continuity. The accounting and procurement responsibilities were underestimated on the
assumption that MOE staff could simply add-on these functions to their daily routine. Early in
the project, the lack of an accounting system, manuals, implementation procedures, and
procurement training created serious management problems. The disbursement lag reached
67% at the mid-term review. A full-time Project Director was appointed in 1992 and a PCU
with its own staff was established within MOE. Project management proceeded more
smoothly thereafter and delays were overcome.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
20.   The structural and organizational changes introduced into basic education -- the
Education System Law, the EBI curriculum, the IP, the Teaching Profession Statute, and the
FEE -- are likely to be sustained. The Government is committed to the changes and the new
institutions, which are govemed by legal statutes and regulations. Today, the EBI reform is
widely accepted and there is continuing demand for better education. The financial and
budgetary implications of the changes brought about by PREBA appear to be affordable.
Efforts must still be made to improve textbook distribution. The issue of textbook provision to
those who cannot afford to pay for textbooks needs to be considered further. Also, low levels
of health and nutrition among poor children could prevent such students from benefiting from
the new curriculum, as these are essential factors for effective leaming. The Basic Education
and Training Project will support a pilot operation to improve the school feeding program as
well as some operational research on health of school-age children.



7
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
21.   Overall, Bank performance in project preparation and supervision was satisfactory.
Project preparation took almost two years, from issuing of the Initial Executive Project
Summary in December 1985 to negotiations in October 1987. The project required an above-
average of 130 staff weeks from identification to Board approval. The project was identified
by UNESCO and the FCG, with assistance from IDA. Inputs into the process included: (1) a
comprehensive sectoral analysis by UNESCO between June -July 1985; (2) a Financial and
Management Assessment developed by FCG in December 1985; and (3) a project preparation
document prepared by UNESCO and IDA in March-April 1986. Throughout project
preparation, efforts were made to coordinate actions with respect to the GOCV's sectoral
policies and investment programs between IDA and the AfDB.
22.   The key project components were identified at an early stage of preparation, but
significant changes were made in the project management arrangements. At appraisal, it was
agreed that project-related activities would be coordinated by an MOE Project Coordinator,
assisted by a procurement officer and an accountant. The Project Coordinator was to ensure
that resources (financial, material, management, and administrative) are provided in a timely
manner, liaise with IDA and other project agencies, and monitor and report on the project's
progress. By project effectiveness, a very different arrangement was arrived at, which proved
unworkable (see para 19).
23.   Eleven supervision missions were conducted; seven of them before the mid-term
review. Delays in procurement for both construction of the IP and textbook publishing
worsened in 1990-91, and the project registered disbursement lags of 75% in 1990 and 73% in
1991. During this crucial period, total staff weeks allocated for supervision were only 6.8 in
FY90 and 2.1 in FY91. There was no supervision mission between November 1990 and
December 1991. It is also worth noting that the project had four different Task Managers, a
point that was raised by the Borrower as an element that affected project supervision.
24.   The supervision mission of February 1992 rated the project 3 in development
objectives and implementation status and IDA established an emergency program with MOE
to overcome difficulties in implementation. The mid-term review of October 1992 registered
good progress in the implementation of the emergency program and project performance was
upgraded to 2. After the mid-term review there was a shift in the pace of project
implementation, possibly accounted for by the changes in the country's political context which
brought about some institutional restructuring. The responsibility for project implementation
was moved from the DGP and placed under the PCU. Supervision by and technical assistance
from IDA became more helpful in strengthening the operational and financial management
capability of the PCU and solving bottlenecks. IDA agreed to a one-year extension of the
project completion date to June 1995. The final supervision mission in early 1995 reported that
the project had, by and large, achieved its objectives and in some respects had even exceeded
them, giving it a rating of 1.



8
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   GOCV participated actively in project identification and played a significant role in
project preparation. GOCV's preparation of its Second National Development Plan in 1986,
followed by the Round Table Conference, provided a solid framework for project preparation.
The principal preparatory activities were: a survey of schools and institutions participating in
the Santa Cruz pilot-test program, the design/preparation of the training programs and new
curriculum, designation of the site for the IP, preparation of the new upgraded teacher salary
scales, furniture and equipment lists, and bidding procedures. Overall borrower performance
in the preparation and appraisal stages of the project was satisfactory. Prior to the credit
effectiveness the GOCV complied with all IDA requests for preparing documents pertaining to
conditionalities and appointed key project administration staff as had been agreed.
26.   The borrower's performance in project implementation was satisfactory overall. The
borrower was strongly committed to basic education reform, but the MOE, which was
responsible for PREBA, was unfamiliar with IDA's procurement and disbursement
procedures, which caused implementation delays. Slow decision-maldng processes in MOE,
involving several levels of administration, prevented quick resolution of implementation
bottlenecks. The result of these two factors was poorly prepared bidding documents that went
back and forth between the MOE and IDA. The Ministry of Civil Works had to be brought in
to help, and cost increases surpassed estimated contingencies by 200%/o, which the Government
agreed to pay.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
27.   Project outcome is highly satisfactory. Basic education was restructured; it is
administered under a single, integrated organizational structure and encompasses the first six
years of education. All school-age children are now entitled to a six-year basic education course,
taught by a trained teacher, and new textbooks. The new curriculum was tested and
empirically validated. Capacity to design curricula and teaching materials was developed.
New student evaluation and promotion policies have been effected. The quality of primary
school teachers was uigraded. The Institute of Education operates in a modern and well-
equipped facility; in-service and pre-service teacher training programs were successfully
implemented, exceeding initial targets set for this component; the organization and regulation
of the teaching profession was formalized legally; and teacher salaries were improved.
Textbooks and teaching materials: new textbooks for students and teaching guides for teachers
were designed for the first time for use in basic education. Textbooks and teaching guides are
being provided to all students and teachers in core subjects. The production of textbooks and
teaching materials exceeded initial targets. A cost-recovery fund for textbooks was started,
and appears to be promising. Finally, management in the education sector was improved.



9
H.    FUTURE OPERATION
28.   The GOCV and IDA are implementing a follow-up project, the Basic Education and
Training Project (Cr. 2675-CV for SDR 7.8 million, US$11.5 million equivalent, effective in
May 1995) to: (1) continue support for the nation-wide expansion of EBI by adapting the
primary school infrastructure to conform with EBI requirements, to provide the necessary
qualified teachers to support the EBI curriculum, and to provide the necessary textbooks
and teacher guides; (2) improve the relevance of technical secondary education and training
by supporting ongoing curricular and pedagogical reforms; addressing the lack of incentives
for skill development, productivity improvement, and training for employment; and
providing opportunities for professional education and apprenticeships; (3) strengthen the
existing capacity to formulate policies and implement programs in education, training, and
the labor markets by reinforcing MOE's planning, implementation, and managerial capacity
at the central and regional levels; strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of
Labor, Youth, and Social Action; the Institute of Labor and Employment, and the National
Advisory Council for Employment and Training to monitor training and provide
employment services; and promote inter-agency cooperation during project implementation.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
29.   The following key lessons were learned during project implementation:
(i)   For a first project in a new sector, careful attention must be given to designing and
setting up the project management and coordination capacity that are essential to
successful project implementation. The follow-up project has built on this lesson and
developed implementation manuals and accounting systems and conducted a launch
seminar before project-up. An education coordinator was appointed to monitor
education investments and advise MOE units on implementation, planning, and
administrative procedures and to work closely with the inter-agency coordination unit
responsible for consolidation of financial accounts, monitoring of project
implementation, coordination of inter-agency procedures.
(ii)   Complex project management arrangements that are put in place and that require a
high degree of internal coordination within a ministry, which itself is undergoing
institutional restructuring, do not work well.
(iii)  Financial accounting systems must be established and be operational at credit
effectiveness.
(iv)   Without greater institutional and coordination capacities in place at MOE, it would be
risky to attempt simultaneous externally financed projects to strengthen its institutional
capacity, as this would heavily tax MOE's managerial resources.



10
(v)   For project supervision to be useful for implementation, it must be adequate, timely,
and well-focused. The experience with PREBA shows that many of the initial delays
could have been prevented with in-depth monitoring and supervision. Rotating experts
and changing task managers hampered IDA's capacity to identify emerging problems
in a timely fashion and to take corrective action.
(vi)   Success of the EBI reform offers lessons for operations in the education sector:
Specialized technical assistance from an extemal partner, like the FCG, throughout
from project identification to implementation made an important difference. It built up
MOE's capacity to undertake the comprehensive EBI reform -- curriculum,
textbooks, teacher training, student evaluation standards -- and its willingness to stay
the course in following through with the reform. FCG assistance is a good example of
the complementarity of as sistance available from sources other than IDA.
The pilot testing of EBI helped in developing the technical and managerial skills and
the confidence necessary for going the next step to expand EBI nation-wide.
The social mobilization undertaken by MOE for the EBI reform facilitated its wide
public acceptance. The need to develop a social consensus for secondary and technical
education reform is a lesson that has been built into the next IDA-financed education
project.
The sequencing of investments for educational reform proved successful in Cape
Verde, given limited financial and managerial resources. The initial efforts focused on
curriculum design, teaching methods, and materials, and their pilot-testing, and only
after this stage was satisfactorily completed, did attention shift to EBI's nation-wide
expansion and planning investment in physical infrastructure.



I1
PART II- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives         Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                       a               E                 E                [
Sector Policies                        JE                             El                 El
Financial Objectives               [rJ                                L a 
Institutional Development           E]              [                 El 
Physical Objectives                 [                 Q                Q                 El
Poverty Reduction                                    EEl                                IxJ
Gender Issues                                        El               El                 x
Other Social Objectives              EEl                                                [El
Environmental Objectives               l             El                El               [E
Public Sector Management                             EEl                                [El
Private Sector Development           EEl                                                [El
Other (specify)                      El              E                  l                E
B. Project Sustainabilitv               Likelv                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
')                       (El                         El



12
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactorv         Satisfactorv               Deficient
(/)                     (V)                       (V)
Identification                     I                        a                        [
Preparation Assistance             [l f 
Appraisal                                                   E
Supervision                        0:                                                 0
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                 Ix               0              0
Implementation                                 ]           [X               E
Covenant Compliance                         L              Ix              E]
Operation (if applicable)                   (               E               a
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactorv    unsatisfactory
L^             C                El                El



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans//IDA Credits
Loan/credit title                      Purpose                          Year of           Status
approval
Preceding operations
NONE
Following operations
Basic Education and   To support the nation-wide expansion of the          FY 95       Ongoing
Training              Integrated Basic Education System (EBI); to
improve the relevance of technical education and
(CR 2675-CV)          training; and build institutional capacity.
Proposed Social Sector  Support the effort of the Fourth National          FY 98       Preparation
Project               Development Plan in the areas of poverty reduction,
health, and sanitation.
Source: Bank SAR and Identification Mission report
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 |     Date Planned             Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Initiating Project Brief                                                       December 30, 1985
Identification Mission                                   February, 1986 *      March 6, 1986
Final Executive Project Summary-FEPS                                           June 17, 1986
Pre-appraisal review meeting                                                   February 17, 1987
Appraisal                                                August, 1986 *        April 15, 1987
Negotiations                                             May, 1987 *           October 9, 1987
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)                                   N/A
Board Presentation                                       Julv, 1987 *          November 24, 1987
Signing                                                                        December 17. 1987
Effectiveness                                                                  March 15, 1988
Midterm review                                           March, 1991  **       October 7, 1992
Project Completion                                       June 30, 1994 ***     June 30, 1995
Credit Closing                                                                 Jan 10, 1996
Source: Date planned: * Initiating Project Brief of Dec. 30, 1985; -   SAR;  ** Credit Agreement
Date Actual: Project timetable and project files



14
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY88  FY89  FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Appraisal         360    960    1.580   2.320   3.180   3.910   4.200
Estimate
Actual             0      305    404      631    1.029   1.559   3.271   4.146   4.411
Actual as % of     0%     32%    25%      27%     32%     40%     78%
Estimate
Disbursement lag   100%   68%    75%      73%     68%     60%     22%
Date of Final Disbursement: January 10,1996
Source: Disbursement Reports



15
Table 5 & 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
I. Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/
President's Report                                Estimated                         Actual
1. TO RESTRUCTURE THE BASIC EDUCATION SYSTEM
a. Implement pilot EBI reform in Santa Cruz  (i) Grade 1-3 not later than 9/89  EBI tested by 1992-94; all
grades in four sites
(ii) Grade 2-4 not later than 9/90
(iii) Grade 5-6 not later then 9/91
b. Implement EBI curriculum nation-wide    (i) Grade 1-3 not later than 1991  Implemented nation-wide by
1995
(ii) Grade 2-4 not later than 1992
(iii) Grade 5-6 not later than 1993
c. Implement automatic student promotion in  (i) Grade I not later than 9/91  Tested by 1992-94
Santa Cruz
(ii) Grade 3 not later than 9/93
(iii) Grade 5 not later than 9/95
d. Approve automatic student promotion &    (i) Grade 1-6 not later than 1/88  National implementation
implement nation-wide                    (ii) Nation-wide not later than 9/92   rescheduled staring 1995 under
the second IDA- financed
project
e. Implement new examination system for     (i) Grade 2 not later than 9/92  New evaluation certification
students evaluation in Santa Cruz                                        model by 1990. Tested by 1992-
iii) Grade 4 not later than 9/94  94
(ii) Grade 4 not later than 9/94
(iii) Grade 6 not later than 9/96
2. UPGRADE THE QUALITY OF PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHERS
a. Prepare and furnish to IDA for review and             1/88                1/88
comment in-service & pre-service training
program
b. Approve regulations governing certification           6/88               Action Program: 6/88
and salary status for trained teachers
Teacher statute: 9/93
Organic. regulations: 12/92
c. Institute of Education legally established            3/88               Founded: 3/88 Opened: 2/92
Construction ended: 1994
d. Training of 1,200 primary school teachers             1994                1,600 teachers were trained
between 4/88 and 12/94 -- 33%
over-target.



16
1. Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/ Presidents
Report                                                   Estimated                            Actual
3. INCREASE THE AVAILABILITY OF TEXTBOOKS, TEACHING MATERIALS AND SCHOOL SUPPLIES
a. Implement a cost-recovery system for textbooks,             8/91                  FEE effective 1992; Legal status 1995
including a textbook and school supplies
revolving fund
b. Produce 17 textbooks for EBI & 18 teacher guides      440,000 textbooks           700,000 textbooks & 30,000 teacher
9,000 teacher guides        guides were printed
4. IMPROVE EDUCATION SECTOR MANAGEMENT
a. Pass Organic Law and make other legal                                             Decree 116/87
arrangements to help EBI implementation                                         Decree 103/90
Regulation 53/93
b. Prepare school map and computerized data bank at                                  School map and information system are
MOE planning unit                                                                 operative
c. Train staff and keep in positions                                                 Staff trained and operative
d. Decentralization of management to municipal                                       Local (council) authorities are operative
councils & supply office technology                                               and communicate via fax with MOE
e. Achieve a teacher/pupil ratio of 1:36                    SY 1993/94               The ratio has remained at 1:33 since 1993
11    Modified Indicators:
An Emergency Program put in place in 1992; main
aspects were:
I. Implement bidding for Institute of Education                4/92                  Contract signed by 5/92
construction
2. Complete regulations for new teachers                       4/92                  Statutes ready by 5/92
3. Program new validation of teaching materials                4/92                  Second validation scheduled for SYs
92/93 and 93/94 attained on schedule
4. Restructure two schools for teacher training                10/92                 Institute of Education opened two sites on
time, October 1992
5. Define TOR's for six studies                                 5/92                 Three studies were completed:
school map pilot, EBI school typology,
textbook design and distribution, and
prevalence of drug consumption in the
school-age population of Cape Verde
As no Table performance indicators was provided in the SAR or the President's Report, the indicators were assembled from targets mentioned in
various parts of the SAR, Schedule 2 of Credit Agreement, and SPN reports.



17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                 at Appraisal/Redefined            Status/ Impact of Study
Programmed:
Low-cost methods of school    Study should follow the approach in  Rescheduled in order to give
construction                 the WB regional study for the Sahel  priority to the school map
countries. Expected to provide
recommendations for local school
construction with artisans
participation and cominunity
involvement, including the potential
role of the municipalities.
Costs and financing of      Pre-appraisal mission stated that    idem
education                    this study, jointly with the proposed
studies on Secondary Education
Development and Education and
Employment financed by the AfDB,
would for the basis for developing
an investment plan for the sector.
In Feb. 1992 the SPN mission
redefined the study purpose as
follows: To assess the possibility for
local financing of school
construction. Because this study
was related to the preceding study,
it was suggested combining both
into one study.
Developed:
School Map                  To create a permanent capacity for   A pilot school mapping
managing and updating the school   system was started in five
l _______________________    map.                             municipalities.
EBI (1-6 grades) school     Proposal to reorganize the school    Proposal allowed the
typology                     network to satisfy the new 1-6 grade  planning for the nation-wide
structure by implementing the    expansion of the EBI to be
satellite school model.         supported by the second IDA
education project.
Establish the needs for furniture
and equipment for classrooms and
estimate costs.
Textbook distribution        Gulbenkian Foundation baseline   Allowed reorganization of
report                          the textbook distribution
network and stock control
system.



18
Purpose as Defined
Study                 at Appraisal/Redefined            Status/ Impact of Study
Girl's Education            Participate in an international   Conclusions of the seminar
seminar and organize a national  pointed out that the nature of
seminar.                         gender differences in Cape
Verdean education are no
longer related to access to
primary education but they
are to secondary and tertiary
education.
Prevalence study within the  To identify the actual tendencies of   The survey primarily
school population of Cape   drug consumption within the       considered secondary
Verde regarding psychotropic   schools population and to highlight  education. The study was
substance consumption       some of the explanations for school   developed for all the
drug consumption.                education councils
(municipalities). As a result,
it established a data bank.
The study concluded that
prevalence was not high;
nevertheless, tendencies in
the different regions of the
country were identified.
Source: SPN reports and Project Coordinator's report.



Table 8: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                                    Actual/Latest Estimate(USSM)
Local           Foreign           Total             Local           Foreign           Total
Item                    Costs            Costs                              Costs            Costs
I. Civil Works                    0.073            0.411             0.484            0.094            0.531         0.625
2. Furniture, Equipment,          0.060             1.148            1.208            0.053             1,002         1.055
Materials, &
Textbooks
3. Consultants, Audits, &         0.383            0.711             1.094            0.578             1.073         1.651
Fellowships
4. Studies                        0.038            0.090             0.128            0.029            0.068         0.097
5 OperatingCosts-MOE              0.099            0.017             0.116            0.298            0.053         0.351
6. Teacher salary increase            0            0.636             0.636                0            0.632         0.632
7. Project Preparation            0.022            0.080             0.102                0                0             0
Facility- PPF 459 CV
8. Unallocated                    0.077            0.355             0.432                0                0             0
TOTAL                            0.753            3.447             4.200            1.052            3.359         4.411
Source: SAR, Project disbursement tables
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost-benefit analysis was not made and a net present value or an economic rate of return were not calculated.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section   Covenant   Present                                      Description of                                                        Comments
type        status                                         covenant
Section                         The Borrower shall:
3.01(b)
2         C          (i) allocate in its budget funds sufficient to cover the Borrower's counterpart contribution to the   (i) Adequate funds were allocated for project activities in
costs of the Project;                                                                  the investment and current budgets. Minister of
Finance assured adequate funds to cover IP civil
works cost overrun.
2         C          (ii) open exclusively for the purposes of the Project and thereafter maintain in C.V. Esc. in a  (ii) Project account was managed in foreign exchange.
commercial bank, a Project Account;                                                      Another account for the Borrower's counterpart
funds was also opened.
2         C          (iii) make an initial deposit in the Project Account, in an amount equivalent to S75,000; and  (iii) Deposit was made a condition of effectiveness.
2         C          (iv) thereafter replenish said Project Account, as and when required, to ensure that, on the first   (iv) Compatibility problems arose in replenishment
day of each calendar quarter of each year the Project is executed, the amount estimated to be  procedures of the two project accounts.
required to cover expenditures for the Project during such quarter, which are not financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, is available therein.
Section    5         C          Borrower shall employ, at all times throughout the execution of the Project, the following key    Several changes in the Project Director in 1990-91  o
3.02                            staff all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association:        complicated project management and affected
(a) Project Director,                                                                performance. The emergency program in mid-1992 put a
(b) Deputy Project Director, and                                                     PCU in place; the new management arrangements
(c) Accountant.                                                                      significantly improved performance in planning and
implementation.
Section    5         CD         Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and  Project management team lacked knowledge and capacity
3.03                            consultant's services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit  in procurement procedures during the early years of
shall be governed by the provisions of schedule 3 to this Agreement.                 project implementation. Significant delays in civil works
and textbook procurement were experienced. Civil works
were awarded in June 1992 and procurement for
textbooks was finalized in Oct. 1992. Procurement
activities thereafter were carried out in a satisfactory and
timely fashion.
Section 3.0  10      C          For purposes of Part B. I, 2 and 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
4 (a)                           (a) not later than January 31, 1998, prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and
comment:
(i) in-service and pre-service training programs for primary school teachers;       (i) Programs were submitted on schedule.



Section   Covenant   Present                                         Description of                                                         Comments
type         status                                          covenant
10        C          (ii) draft regulations governing certification and salary status for teachers having successfully  (ii) Salary incentives for newly trained teachers were paid.
completed in-service and pre-service training programs;                                     Government requested that allocated resources be
used to cover increases in salary budget as a result of
the new teacher statutes. Credit amended
accordingly. Disbursement completed.
3.04 (b)    10        CD         (b)not later than June 30, 1988, approve the training programs and regulations referred to in  (b) Ministry of Education agreed to programs on 6/10/89.
paragraph (a) of this Section paying due regard to any comments made by the Association; and  Council of Ministers approved them in September
1989.
3.04 (c)    10        C          (c) not later than January 31, 1989, implement said programs and put into effect said regulations. (c) The in-service teacher training program started in
April 1989. Until 1994, 1,600 teachers were trained
(original target was 1,200 teachers). Pre-service
teacher training experienced considerable delay due
to delayed construction of the IP. Therefore, starting
in 1993, the PCU assumed direct responsibility for
carrying out the teacher training programs. Once the
physical facilities of the IP in Praia were completed
in October 1994, the pre-service teacher training
situation was normalized.
Section    9          CD         The borrower shall:
3.05 (a)                         (a) not later than March 31, 1991, conduct a mid-tern review jointly with the Association on:    (a) The mid-term review took place in October 1992.
(i) progress made in achieving Project objectives;                                     (i) In order to correct delays experienced until 1991, an
emergency program was devcloped to improve
implementation of the EBI reform.
(ii) Budget projections were prepared.
(ii) MOE's budget projections for the following five years;
(iii) Activity followed-up mainly under the PRESE
(iii) effectiveness of MOE's revised administrative framework-; and                         project.
(iv) Done. The second IDA education project is
(iv) the design of a detailed work program for the country-wide implementation of EBI; and  supporting EBI expansion nation-wide.
3.05 (b)    5         C          (b) promptly thereafter, put into effect the recommendations arising out of said review, as  (b) Work proceeded according to plans defined during
determined in agreement with the Association.                                               mid-term review, the necessity for a credit
reallocation was identified.



Section   Covenant   Present                                      Description of                                                        Comments
type        status                                         covenant
Section    12        C          The Borrower shall: (a) not later than August 31, in each year, review jointly with the
3.06 (a)                        Association:
(i) proposed budgetary allocations to and within MOE for the following Fiscal Year,  (i) Reviews partially done.
(ii) progress achieved by MOE's institutional units in the implementation of their annual work
programs;                                                                            (ii) Activity followed-up mainly under the PRESE project.
(iii) progress achieved towards the implementation of EBI in the Municipality of Santa Cruz; and  (iii) Santa Cruz pilot experiment had to be repeated
because of faulty planning and supervision. The
experiment was redesigned with FCG support and
covered three more municipalities.
Section    12        C          (b) promptly thereafter, put into effect the recommendations arising out of said review, as  (b) Dialogue on sector led to GOCV drafting Letter of
3.06 (b)                        determined in agreement with the Association.                                             Sector Policy which was used as the basis for the
next Basic Education and Training Project in Cape
Verde.
Section    12        CP         The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1988:                                                                                                 NJ
3.07 (a),
(b)                             (a) set annual targets conceming the pupiVteacher ratio; and                          (a) and (b) The pupil/teacher ratio increased to 33:1 in
SY 1989/90. The planned 36:1 could not be obtained
(b) implement all necessary measures to increase said pupil/teacher ratio to 36:1 between the  because of elimination of the triple shift classes after
school years of 1988189 to 1993,/94.                                                    agreement with IDA. The ratio has remained at 33:1
since 1993.
Section    10        C          The Borrower shall, not later than August 31. 1991, implement cost recovery systems for  Efforts concentrated on Textbook Revolving Fund, which
3.08                            textbooks and school supplies, including the establishment of a Textbook Revolving Fund and a   was created and is operating.
School Supplies Revolving Fund, respectively, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section    10        C          The Borrower shall:
3.09 (a),                       (a) not later than January 31, 1988, approve a system of automatic promotion for students in  (a) and (b) the system of automatic promotion agreed
(b)                             basic education on terms and conditions mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Section.       during appraisal was approved by MOE and
(b) not later than September 30, 1992, implement the system mentioned in paragraph (a) of this  introduced in Santa Cruz. The govemment agreed in
Section.                                                                                 the Letter of Sector Policy issued for the Second IDA
education project to introduce progressively the
system of automatic promotion started in Oct. 1995,
under the modality of two-year cycles.



Section   Covenant   Present                                        Description of                                                          Comments
type         status                                          covenant
Section    5          C          The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure that all MOE staff having received training  Mid-term review redefined a new staff training program
3.10                             abroad financed under the Project remain in their assignments for a period of at least three years  mainly focusing on visits to neighboring countries in
after completion of such training.                                                      order to review experiences relevant to decentralization
and budgeting of the EBI. Staff sent returned to MOE.
Section     I         C          The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect  Accounting management was inefficient in the early years
4.01 (a)                         in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in  of the project mainly due to MOE staff unfiamiliarity with
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out IDA procedures and project implementation manuals.
the Project or any part thereof                                                         Assistance was provided and computerization of all
project transactions completed.
4.01 (b)    I         CD         The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section including those for  (i) All audit reports were considered unsatisfactory.
the Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing  Recommendations made in 1993 led to improved
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;    project financial management.
I         CD         (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after (ii) delays in transmitting reports were overcome since
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such  FY93.
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and                                                                      w
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records, accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.           (iii) Done.
4.01 (c)    I         CD         (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on (c) Project implementation started without an accounting
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:                             system. A computerized accounting system was started
in 1992.
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;                                              (i) Done.
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit for the Fiscal Year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders  (ii) Done.
invoices, bill receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in  (iii) Done.
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to  (iv) Done along with project financial account audits.
support the related withdrawals.
Covenant types: 1.=Accounts/audits, 2.=Financial performancetrevenue generation from beneficiaries; 3.=Flow and utilization of project finds; 4.-Counterpart funding; 5.=Management aspects of the project or
executing agency, 6.=Environmental covenants; 7.=lnvoluntary resetlent; 8= Indigenous people Indigenous people; 9= Monitoring, review, and reporting, 10= Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9;
11= Sectdo  or crow-seLtoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12= Sectoal or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action; 13.= Other.
Presnt Stata: C= covenant complied with, CD== complied with aflter delay. CP- complied with paltially, NC- not complied with



24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Borrower complied with all operational manual statements.            3
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                Planned                Revised              Actual
Proj1ect Cycle    .                      ._._l
Weeks       US$        Weeks       US$      Weeks      US$
Through Appraisal                                                     91.4      147.1
From Appraisal to                                                     39.3       74.5
Board
From Board To                                                          8.3       15.7
Effectiveness
Supervision                                                           104.0     220.0
Completion                                                              8        18.7
TOTAL                                                                251.9     476.0
Source: Project Timetable and Cost Details Report



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of            MontW             Number        Days in      Specialized Staff Skills                Implement-        Development
Project Cycle          Year              of Persons    Field                  Represented                   ation Status      Objectives                   Types of Problenm
Through Appraisal         12/85             -               -            UNESCO Mission                             N/A               N/A                              N/A
02/86             1               5            ECN
05/86             2               7            EDC Pi, ECN
06/86             3 +1 FCG        21           EDC Pi, ARC, EDC Adm.
04/87             3               21           EDC PI., ARC, TEXTB EX
Appraisal through Board    0                                                                                        N/A               N/A                              N/A
Approval
Board Approval through    02/88             t               8            EDC Pi                                     N/A               N/A                              NI&
Effectiveness
Supervision               10/88             2               8            EDC Pi, ECN                                 I                  1           PMP
06/89             2               6            EDC Pi, Div. Chief                          2                  1           CLC
0W/90              1              9            ARC                                         2                  1           CLC, PP, TA, FP
10/90             3               13           2 EDC Pi, TEXTB EX                          2                 2            CLC, PMP, PP, SP, FP
12/91             2               8            EDC PI, TEXTB EX                            2                 2            CLC, PMP, PP+, SP, FP
02/92             2               8            ECN, PRO                                    3                  3           CLC, PMP, PP, TA, SP
05/92             2               15           ECN, TEXTB EX                               3                  3           CLC, PMP, PP, TA, SP
ev92 Mid-Term    3               18           2 ECN, EDC Pi                               2                 2            CLC, PMP, PP
Revicw
07/93              1              10           ECN                                         2                  2           CLC, PMP, PP
10/93             3               30           2ECN, 00                                    2                  1           PMP
Completion                01/95             2               13            00, EDC                                    S                 lS           PMP
Source: 590's and SPN reports.
Key to Specialization: EDC= Educator, EDC Pl=Education Planner, PRO= Procurement; ECN= Economist; ARC= Architect, TEXTB EX.- Textbook Expert; 00 Operation Officer; Div. Chief= Division Chief
Key to Performance ratings: I= Psoblem free; 2= Moderate problem; 3= Major problems with solution underway; 4= Major problems without solution underway (none in this program); HS- llighly satisfactory, S=
Satisfactory.
Key to problems: AF= Availability of funds; CLC= Compliance with legal covenants; FP= Financial performance; PMP= Project management performance; PP= Procurement progress;
SP= Studies progress; TA= Technical assistance; += Particularly problernatic






Appendix A
Page I of 9
REPUBLICA DE CABO VERDE
MINISTERIO DA EDUCAQAO
RELAT6RIO FINAL DO PROJECTO DE RENOVAgAO
E EXTENSAO DO ENSINO BASICO (PREBA) Credito 1853-CV
A. INTRODUQjAO
O Projecto Educa,ao de Base e FormacAo (PREBA) foi realizado na Republica de Cabo
Verde mediante o credito IDA 1853 CV, que come,ou a operar em 29 de Outubro de 1987 e
que terminou no dia 30 de Junho de 1995. Este projecto, para cumprir a finalidade de
melhorar a qualidade e a eficiencia da educacao primaria e conseguir, a longo prazo, efeitos
importantes nos indices de alfabetiza,co, produtividade, saude e natalidade, teve quatro
objectivos fundamentais: 1) Preparar, realizar e avaliar un novo curriculum de Educa,ao
Basica; 2) Elevar a qualidade dos professores do Ensino Basico; 3) Preparar materiais de
ensino-aprendizagem para o novo curriculum; e 4) Melhorar a gestAo do sistema educativo.
Cada um destos objectivos se traduzem numa componente do projecto, a que se somou
uma quinta componente, destinada a realizar estudos relativos a custos da educa,Ao e a
constru,ces escolares. 0 custo total do projecto foi calculado en US$ 5.7 milh6es, dos quais
o Govemo de Cabo Verde financiou US$ 1.07 milh6es, aproximadamente 20%, sendo o
resto financiado por um credito IDA de US$ 4.20 milhoes. Os desembolsos fizeram-se no
prazo de sete anos e meio, a partir de 1988 e ate 1995.
O presente relat6oo da conta das li,6es deixadas pela execu9io do PREBA, na perspectiva
da sua contribuicao para a Reforma do Sistema Educativo da Republica de Cabo Verde.
NAo inclui, portanto, aspectos pr6prios de uma auditora financeira, tarefa que foi atribuida -
segundo normas usuais do Banco Mundial- a urma firma especializada de auditores, cujo
relat6rio sera entregue em data pr6xima.
No que diz respeito ao seu conteudo, no corpo do relat6rio apresenta -se uma analise critica
de cada componente, em conformidade com os resultados alcan,ados, organizados de
acordo com cinco indicadores, que se referem respectivamente i) A coerencia do projecto
em rela9Ao A necessidade que o originou b) A capacidade em dar resposta As demandas
programadas e emergentes; iii) A eficiencia demostrada na utiliza,ao dos recursos
disponiveis; e iv) A eficacia demostrada no cumprimento das metas propostas. A
apresenta,io dos resultados tem em conta o cruzar a) das cinco etapas por que cada
componente teve que atravessar: conceptualiza,ao, inicia,ao, configuracao, implementa,ao
e avaliacao; com b) os elementos que determinam a capacidade institucional para levar a
cabo as etapas na execu,ao da componente: planeamento, organiza,ao, competancias,
recursos, lideran,ca e apoios efectivos. Numa rubrica final apresentam-se as con-clusoes
deste exercicio avaliativo, especificando-se as principais li,6es deixadas e as
recomendac6es que A possivo formular para as partes envolvidas na opera,ao de um
segundo projecto entre o Govemo de Cabo Verde e a Agencia de Desenvolvimento
Intemacional, o Projecto Educa,Ao de Base e Forma,ao, credito 2675.
0 presente relat6oo foi elaborado pela Unidade Coordenadora do Projecto, dirigida pela Sra.
Adrana Carvalho, com a colabora,Ao do Sr. Emesto Toro, consultor contratado pelo Banco
Mundial para prestar assessora tecnica na sua preparacao. As fontes principais foram: a
documentacao oficial do projecto, os relat6rios anuais apresentados pelo PREBA A agencia
financiera, a avaliacao da Reforma feita pela UNESCO, relat6rios da Fundacao Gulbenkian
e, tambem entrevistas a dirgentes do Ministero da Educa,ao e visitas a escolas urbanas e



Appendix A
Page 2 of 9
rurais feitas pelo consultor durante o exercicio da sua missao, na Praia, de 1 a 11 de
Novembro de 1995.
B. REALIZA;AO DOS OBJECTIVOS DO PROJECTO
B. 1. Reestruturaqgo do Ensino Basico.
Esta componente inclui duas alineas: a) elabora,co de programas de estudo, manuais para
os alunos, guias para o professor, metodos e dispositivos para a avalia,ao; e b)
experimenta,co dos programas de ensino basico no Concelho de Santa Cruz.
a)    Foi elaborado um novo plano curricular para o Ensino Basico, aprovado legalmente
mediante portaria No. 53/ 93, estabelecendo-se que - de acordo com a Lei de Bases do
Sistema Educativo (decreto n 103, de Margo de 1990) o ensino basico constituiu um ciclo
unico e aut6nomo, organizado em tres fases de dois anos cada, com uma estrutura
curricular caracterizada pela unidade e integra,co disciplinar e que e administrado, em tres
fases, por um regime de professor unico. A educa,co de base passou de quatro para seis
anos, considerada como a escolaridade basica e universal na Republica de Cabo Verde.
Dentro desta mesma linha de trabalho foram concebidos, impressos e distribuidos os
programas de ensino para as areas que, originalmente, considerou o PREBA: Lingua
Portuguesa, Matematica e Ciencias Integradas. Preparou-se, alem disso , o programa da
area das Express6es (Expressao e Educa,ao Fisico-Motora, Musical e Plastica), com o que
se colmatou um vazio no plano de estudos e se deu a devida aten,co a aspectos
importantes na forma,co e desenvolvimento pessoal e social das crian,as. De cada jogo
de programas foram impressos 1.500 exemplares.
Produziram-se manuais escolares para os alunos, cobrindo-se os seis anos de EBI nas tres
materias originais. Inicialmente nao se considerou a prepara,co de manuais para Ciencias
Integradas, 1a e 2' fases do EBI, dado que, no momento da implementa,co do PREBA havia
em circula,co uma edi,co recente de manuais de Meio Fisico e Social. Tendo em aten,co a
desactualiza,co dos conteudos e a desarticula,o com o o novo esquema curricular foram
preparados novos manuais para o 20, 30 e 40 anos de escolaridade. No total, elaboraram-se
17 manuais. Para apoiar o ensino nestas tres areas, prepararam-se 18 guias para o
professor.
Como se deduz do exposto, a area das Expressoes necessita de ser completada no que
refere a guias e manuais, materiais que os professores nas escolas, os inspectores e
tecnicos das Delega,coes Escolares nos diversos concelhos reclamam serem necessarios e
urgentes, argumentando que a expressao musical e estetica e algo natural na cultura e na
vivencia do homem Cabo-verdiano, que deve ser valorizado.
Em resumo, o novo ensino basico integrado (EBI) encontra-se, em 1995, implementado em
todas as escolas do pais. 0 sistema EBE (Ensino Basico Elementar) de 4 anos e EBC
(Ensino Basico Complementar) de 2 anos, extremamente selectivo, foi extinto e a
escolaridade basica e universal de seis anos generalizada a popula,co escolar da
correspondente faixa etaria. A produ,co e distribui,ao de programas de estudo e guias
metodol6gicos -em Lingua Portuguesa, Matematica e Ciencias Integradas- constitui uma
inova,ao maior, dada a sua inexistencia anterior. Igualmente, o prolongamento em dois
anos do que se considera ser a educacao fundamental que devem receber as cran,as
Cabo-verdianas, constitui outro resultado de grande significado. E de relevar o enfoque da
.,.s   . -. das mater;.-_ _ :_r's, com 'ransfe._cia para o tratamento pedag6gico na sala



Appendix A
Page 3 of 9
de aula. Estas decisoes curriculares tiveram incidencia na estrutura,co dos programas de
estudos aplicado na forma,ao de professores, inicial e en servi,o, assim  como na
reciclagem das equipas tbcnicos de inspectores e coordenadores de todas as delega,6es
escolares do pais. A integra,co curricular foi respeitada na produ,co de textos para os
alunos e no material destinado aos professores. Deste modo, a reforma da estrutura e
conteudos do Ensino Basico tem sido total, conseguindo-se ampla aceita,c3 por todos os
que tem de a aplicar, pelos pais e pela comunidade em general. Estas opini6es favoraveis
tem sido sistematicamente reconhecidas e processadas em estudos conduzidos por
especialistas da UNESCO e da Funda,ao Gulbenkian, que deram apoio tecnico ao
processo de desenvolvimeto e implementa,Ao da reforma. (Ver anexo "Documentos sobre
lmplementa,co e Avaliac,3 do PREBA")
b)    Com respeito a experimentac3o do novo curriculum no Concelho de Santa Cruz. Os
programas do EBI foram testados em dois momentos e cenarios diferentes. Primeiramente,
no concelho de Sta Cruz, foram experimentados em 14 turmas do 1' a 4a classe, entre 1989
e 1991. A experimenta,co realizada n30 permitiu validar o curriculo produzido, dado que: i)
a amostra n3o se revelou representativa; (ii) os materiais escolares estavam incompletos e
houve rupturas na sua distribui,co; (iii) o curriculo incluia apenas disciplinas da area
cognitiva; e iv) o acompanhamento da experimenta,co foi deficiente. Alem disso, na 6poca
(1991192) os materiais para a 3a fase do EBI (5' e 6a classes) n30 estavam elaborados, n3a
permitindo dar-se continuidade a testagem do plano de estudos, na sua globalidade (da 1a a
6a classes).
Para se superaram as dificuldades havidas e se validar o curriculo EBI, os programas e
prot6tipos de manuais foram experimentados, entre 1992 e 1994, em quatro concelhos
(Praia, Sta Cruz, Sta Catarina e S.Vicente) em 18 turrnas, incluindo 556 alunos da la A6
classe. 0 cenario revelou-se mais representativo e diversificado. Os professores
experimentadores receberam ac,6es de forma,cio, ao longo desses dois anos, orientados
por consultores da Funda,cao Gulbenkian. Esta segunda valida,co foi legitimada pela
portaria n60190, que estabeleceu as escolas designadas para a expedmenta,co do
curriculo e definiu o modelo de avaliac3o e de certifica,co dos alunos. Foi definido e
cumprido um piano de acompanhamento e avalia,co da reforma curricular, que permitiu
conhecer a aprecia,c3o do novo ensino, pelos pais, professores e alunos (da 3' fase). No
final do ciclo de experimentacao, procedeu-se a uma avalia9io comparada das
aprendizagens alcan,adas pelas turmas experimentais (EBI) e por turmas que seguiam o
curriculo tradicional. Os resultados foram favoraveis as urmas experimentais, conforme
relat6rio, referidos no anexo n2.
8.2. Melhoria da qualidade dos professores do Ensino Basico.
Neste capitulo mostram-se os resultados alcan,ados com: a) a formaiao em exercicio; b) a
forma,c3 inicial; c) o estatuto da carreira docente e; c) a constru,ca do Instituto Pedag6gico.
a)    Forma,c3  dos professores em  exercicio. Inicialmente, estava programada a
forma,ao de 1.200 professores do ensino basico com vista a capacita-los para ensinarem
os programas do EBI. No entanto, formaram-se 1.600 professores, entre Abril de 1988 e
Dezembro de 1994. Numa primeira fase, formaram-se em exercicio 956 professores, cuja
habilita,co de base era o 60 ano de escolaridade e ficaram capacitados para ensinar do 10
ao 40 ano. Numa segunda fase, formaram-se 644 professores, diplomados com o Curso do
Magisterio Primario e que ficaram aptos a leccionarem todo o ciclo EBI.



Appendix A
Page 4 of 9
b)    Forma,ao inicial dos professores. A formaao inicial dos docentes do Ensino Basico
deveria ser feita pelo Instituto Pedag6gico, a ser criado, construido e posto em
funcionamento, no quadro da execu,ao do PREBA. A sua criagAo legal foi mesmo uma das
condi,6es da entrada em vigor do Projecto (Art. VI, secgAo 6.01), que foi cumprida pelo
decreto no 18/88 de 9 de Margo. Nao obstante esta medida, o Instituto Pedag6gico nao foi,
de facto, institufdo e a Comissao Instaladora nao chegou a funcionar. S6 em 1992 (decreto
n 26/92 de 28 de Fevereiro) foram criadas as condig6es que permitiram o efectivo
funcionamento do Instituto Pedag6gico, dotado com um piano de estudos capaz de
responder ao perfil do professor do EBI. A partir deste ano o Instituto passou a cumprr os
objectivos fixados, ampliando de 50 para 210, a sua capacidade de acolhimento anual. Em
1994 foi dotado de Estatuto Organico e de Regulamento.
Devido aos atrasos na implementacao do Instituto, de 1988 a 1991 a forma,ao inicial
continuou a ser ministrada pela Escola do Magisterio Primario, institui,co que preparava os
professores para o antigo sistema do ensino basico de 4 anos e nao se ajustava ao novo
curriculo de 6 anos. Deste atraso resultou, ainda, que a Unidade de Execu9ao do Projecto
assumiu fun,6es proprias de uma InstituigAo de Forma,ao, nomeadamente a formagAo dos
professores em exercicio, a avalia,ao (concep9ao do sistema e formaao) e a produgao de
materais didacticos. A sobrecarga de fun,6es explica que o staff da Unidade do Projecto
tenha sido maior do que o previsto.
c)    Estatuto da carreira docente. Uma reforma educativa deve valorzar os agentes
educativos e, particularmente, os professores. Esta valoriza,o implicou a reclassificagAo
dos professores em fun,cao das forma,6es adquiridas e a dota,ao da classe com o Estatuto
da Carreira Docente, o que se realizou mediante o decreto legislativo n1 1/93 de 13 de
Setembro. Este normativo definiu a estruturas dos cargos, carreiras e salarios do pessoal
docente. 0 decreto legislativo n 12/93 definiu os principios e as regras da organizagAo e
gestao do pessoal docente.
Todos os professores formados em exercicio foram reclassificados. Os diplomados pela la
fase do Curso de Form9ao em Exercicio dos Professores do Ensino Basico foram
enquadrados como Professores Primarios do Quadro Transit6rio. Os professores
diplomados pela 2' fase do Curso foram reclassificados como professores do Ensino Basico
do Quadro de Professores Profissionalizados. Apesar do atraso de dois anos, esta
promo,ao foi um factor decisivo na dignificagio da carreira dos professores do ensino
basico. Os professores formados em servi,o receberam um aumento salaral m6dio da
ordem de 26%. 0 Projecto contribuiu para o financiamento do aumento dos salirios, com o
montante de US$ 640.000. Os novos salarios tem sido, desde entao, regularmente pagos
pelo Estado.
d)    Constru,ao e ecluipamento do Instituto Pedag6gico. Com financiamento do Projecto
e do Governo de Cabo Verde foi construfdo e equipado o edificio, onde se instalou a
Unidade do Projecto e a sede do Instituto Pedagogico (existe outro polo do IP na cidade de
Mindelo, que beneficiou de algum equipamento, no Ambito do PREBA). 0 custo da
constru,Ao ultrapassou o previsto, em fun,ao dos atrasos no lan9amento do concurso para
a adjudicacao da empreitada, sendo o diferencial dos custos suportado pelo Govemo.
Iniciada em 1993, a constru9Ao da sede do Instituto ficou concluida um ano depois. No
momento do encerramento do Projecto o Instituto Pedagogico estava, completamente,
equipado.



Appendix A
Page 5 of 9
B.3. Manuais escolares, guias para os docentes e material diddctico.
A informagao que passamos a dar refere-se: a) a preparagao, distribui,co e recuperag5o
dos custos dos manuais escolares; b) a preparagao, impressio e distribuigao de manuais e
guias do professor e c) a distribuigao de material e equipamento didacticos.
a)    PreparapAo. distribui,co e recuperacao dos custos dos manuais escolares. Os
manuais escolares produzidos pelo PREBA constituem uma das partes mais relevantes da
reforma do ensino basico. Por conseguinte foi formado pessoal docente em t6cnicas de
desenvolvimento curricular e pessoal t6cnico respons6vel pelo sistema de distribuigAo e
armazenagem dos livros escolares. Persistem, no entanto, alguns problemas com a
distribuigAo dos manuais, o que, em parte, se explica pela dispersio dos concelhos e pela
descontinuidade territorial.
Tendo em vista a recuperag,o dos custos de impressao dos manuais, foi criado,em 1992, o
Fundo Renovavel de Manuais Escolares, cujo reconhecimento legal, sob o nome de Fundo
Especial de Edi9Ao (FEE), 6 feito atrav6s da portaria n6/95. 0 produto da venda dos
manuais 6 depositado na conta do Fundo, permitindo autonomia financeira para a
reimpressao dos livros escolares.
A alimenta,ao do FEE 6 feita pela contribuigao dos pais (que compram os livros a preoos
pr6ximos do custo) e dos privados que comercializam os manuais. Considera-se, no
entanto, que a propor,co de familias que esta em condicoes para contribuirem para o Fundo
6 reduzida , especialmente nas zonas rurais, pelo que se considera ser necessario pensar
noutras fontes para esse fim.
Hi que mencionar que, para os alunos mais carenciados, o Instituto Cabo-verdiano de
Acgao Social Escolar (ICASE) distribui, gratuitamente os livros necessarios para o EBI,
al6m de outro material didactico. No entanto, nio existem ainda estudos precisos sobre as
condi56es s6cio-econ6micas das familias que permitam avaliar as necessidades efectivas
em materiais escolares e outros beneficios, como a alimentagao e a saude escolares. 0
ICASE com o apoio da UNICEF esta a realizar um estudo deste teor em alguns concelhos
do pais, embora sem a cobertura suficiente para satisfazer as necessidades de informa9io
para o ensino basico, que se universalizou.
b)    PreparagAo, impressio e distribui,co dos manuais e quias do professor Foram
preparados pelo PREBA, com o apoio da Fundagao Calouste Gulbenkian, manuais
escolares para o EBI, para as areas curTiculares de Lingua Portuguesa, Matematica e
Ciencias Integradas (17 titulos) e os respectivos guias metodol6gicos para os professores
(18 titulos). A tiragem dos manuais na ordem de 700.000 exemplares e de 30.000 guias (dos
quais metade em processo de prepara,co da impressao) excedeu largamente as metas
iniciais de distribuir 440.000 manuais e cerca de 9.000 guias. As primeiras estimativas
tiveram de ser reequacionadas por forma a satisfazer-se a demanda em materiais
didacticos que aumentou significativamente com a universaliza,co do EBI. As futuras
necessidades em manuais e guias do professor serao cobertas mediante reimpress6es, no
ambito do Projecto Educa9io de Base e FormagAo, cr6dito 2675 CV.
c)    Material didactico e equipamentos escolares. Gragas a uma doavio da Fundagao
Gulbenkian foi distribuido material didacticos aos primeiros alunos que receberam o novo
curriculo do EBI. Este material consistiu em livros e material didactico (malas pedag6gicas).
Ao universalizar-se a aplica,ao do EBI deve-se alargar a distribuigao de material didactico,
sob a responsabilidade da Direcgao da Administragao Escolar do Minist6rio da Educa,ao. 0



Appendix A
Page 6 of 9
credito 2675 CV prev6 o financiamento de material didactico para as salas de aula dos p6los
educativos.
B.4. Melhoria da gestao do sector Educag9o
A execu,co do PREBA, de acordo com os seus objectivos, deveria contribuir para melhorar
aspectos da organiza,co e gestao do Ministerio da EducacAo. Neste quadro foi preparada a
Lei Organica do Minist6rio da Educa,co, promulgada pelo decreto lei n 116/87 e dada
capacita,co ao pessoal deste Minist6rio para a sua aplica,3o.
O PREBA apoiou ainda a elabora,Ao da Carta Escolar do Ensino Basico e formou
competencias, no Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento (GEP), em recolha e tratamento de
estatisticas educativas. Realizaram-se tres ateliers de forma,ao com os Delegados do
Ministerio da Educa,co e t6cnicos de cinco concelhos do pais.
O projecto financiou a constitui,co de um banco de dados informatizados para o GEP,
dando-se forma,co ao pessoal t6cnico que nele trabalha. Algumas dificuldades tecnicas
devem ser, contudo, removidas pelo Minist6rio da Educa,co, especialmente aquelas que
afectam a credibilidade dos dados que o GEP recolhe das Delega,6es, afectando a
qualidade das estatisticas oficiais. Estas dificuldades adv&m i) do envio tardio das
informa,6es ao nivel central (Minist6rio), apesar de todas as Delega,ces terem sido dotadas
de um terminal de fax; ii) da qualidade dos dados que s3o enviados ao GEP, que muitas
vezes tem de ser limpos de inconsist6ncias e incongruencias.
Toma-se, assim necessario refor,ar as competencias do pessoal que prepara os dados
estatisticos. 0 pr6prio GEP esta consciente que a modemizac,o do MED e a eventual
dotac3o de todas as delega,6es com computadores n6o sera uma solu,co, se nio for
acompanhada da devida capacita,co t6cnica.
No entanto 6 de relevar o refor,o que o PREBA deu ao GEP com a constitui,co do banco de
dados, ferramenta importante para se fazer o acompanhamento da reforma nos proximos
anos. A ampliac3o deste sistema de informa,c3o por forma a cobrir as necessidades da
reforma do Ensino Secundario 6 perfeitamente possivel, a partir do sistema instalado.
Contudo, na Unidade de Execu,ao do PREBA, existe o sentimento de que esta foi a
componente que alcan,ou um grau de realiza,co mais baixo. Esta situa,ao explica-se, entre
outras raz6es, pelo enfoque dado a concep,co e, posterior, inser,co no sistema educativo
do Ensino Basico Integrado, finalidade central do projecto. Por outro lado, teve-se em conta
a relevancia que o Projecto de Reestruta,co e Expans3o do Sistema Educativo (PRESE),
financiado pelo BAD e pelo Governo, deu ao refor,o institucional do MED, estabelecendo-se
uma natural e quase tacita divis3o de tarefas.
B. 5. Estudos.
Na execu,co do projecto considerou-se a realiza,c3o dos seguintes estudos especificos: i) o
custo do financiamento da educa,io e ii) metodos pouco onerosos de constru,6es
escolares. Nenhum destes estudos foi realizado. Em contrapartida realizaram-se os
seguintes estudos:
a). "Estudos de adequa,co da rede escolar ao EBI", incluindo um programa preliminar,
uma proposta de adequa,ao dos p6los do EBI, uma defini,ao do mobiliario escolar para as
salas de aula e uma estimativa dos custos. b) "Estudo preliminar de actualiza,io da Carta



Appendix A
Page 7 of 9
Escolar". c)."Estudo sobre a prevalencia do consumo de substancias psico-activas na
popula,co escolar de Cabo Verde".
C. PRINCIPAIS FACTORES QUE AFECTARAM 0 DESENVOLVIMENTO DO PROJECTO.
Os resultados expostos explicam-se, tanto nas realiza,6es bem sucedidas como como nas
dificuldades que tivemos de superar, analisando-se como ocorreu a gestao do projecto.
Em conformidade com o estipulado no projecto, o PREBA devera ter como staff um
Director, um Director-Adjunto e um Contabilista. A execu,co das componentes do projecto
estara a cargo das Direc,6es Gerais do Ministerio da Educa,ao. De 1988 a 1991 a direc,co
do GEP acumulava as fun,6es de direc,ao do projecto, o que se revelou pouco operativo
pela sobrecarga de tarefas e responsabilidades na mesma pessoa e entidade. Por
dificuldades das Direcq,6es Gerais do Minist6rio da Educa,co (falta de pessoal tecnico
competente; dificuldades de gestao, etc) as actividades de execu,ao do projecto foram-se
atrasando e acabaram por ser assumidas pela Unidade do Projecto, atraves do seu pessoal
tecnico (que por isso veio a ser refor,ado).
A partir de 1992, a Direc,co do PREBA separa-se da Direc,ao do GEP, o que se traduziu
num aumento not6rio da sua capacidade operativa. 0 PREBA, para se atingirem as metas
apontadas e que visavam a reforma global do ensino basico, conseguiu importantes apoios
da Funda,co Calouste Gulbenkian, da UNESCO e de lnstitui,6es Superores de Educa,Ao
Portuguesas.
0 processo da mudan,a do sistema, foi facilitado, porquanto a reforma do ensino e,
especialmente o modelo EBI, nao encontraram  resistencias de vulto por parte dos
professores que, alias se viram beneficiados com a promo,co salaral e o enquadramento
na carreira,e dos pais, que tem expressado uma aprecia,ao positiva face a nova fomma de
ensinar os seus filhos.
E de real,ar que com a reconvers30 da rede fisica escolar (estudo feito no quadro do
PREBA), a diminui,co de distancia escola/casa e o alargamento da acessibilidade do EBI
(taxa de cobertura de 95%) a todas as cran,as em idade escolar, contribuiram para a
aceita,ao do novo sistema pelos pais, em particular, nas areas rurais.
D. SUSTENTAQAO DAS REALIZAC6ES DO PROJECTO
Ao terminar o PREBA as suas realiza,ces viram-se sustentadas, sob o ponto de vista
t6cnico e financeiro, pelo Minist6rio da Educa,ao. Contudo, dever-se-a conceder especial
aten,co ao seguinte: a) o curriculo do EBI devera ser completado com a elabora,cao de
materais de ensino-aprendizagem para a area das Express6es; b) deve ser acautelada a
gest3o do Fundo Especial de Edi,6es Escolares (FEE); c) devera ser aperfeicoada a gestao
da carta escolar; d) o GEP, deveri ser refor,ado, no seu papel de acompanhamento da
reforma; e) os servi,os competentes do Ministerio da Educa,co deverao cuidar da
distribui,ao oportuna dos manuais escolares aos alunos (circuito inter-ilhas); f) a formagAo
dos professores do EBI devera ser completada; g) a articula,ao entre as direc9,es do
Ministerio da Educa,co devera ser melhorada e,  h) dever-se-a   garantir um
acompanhamento e uma avalia,ao permanentes da aplicacao do EBI, que cubra os
aspectos administrativos e pedag6gicos, o que pressup6e o desenvolvimento de sistemas
de informa,co, ainda que incipientes.



Appedix A
Page 8 of 9
E. DESEMPENHO DAS PARTES ENVOLVIDAS
A base para se julgar as partes envolvidas na execu,cao do PREBA encontra-se no modelo
de gestao previsto no ACD. 0 modelo de gest3o- instala,co do Projecto no seio do
Minist6rio da Educa,co e distribui,ao das competencias e responsabilidades pelos diversos
servi,os e Direc,6es- parece-nos adequado, se se tiver em conta a inser,io plena do
projecto na estrutura e funcionamento do aparelho educacional, evitando-se a coexistencia
de operadores paralelos e a dificuldade de apropriacao dos resultados alcan,ados no fim do
projecto, pelo Minist6rio da Educa,co, como veio a acontecer.
Por6m, na realidade revelou-se um modelo inoperante, tendo em conta as fun,6es do GEP
(acumulava a direc,co do PREBA) na estrutura organica do Ministerio da Educa,o e a
debilidade da organiza,ao e dos recursos humanos existentes.  A sobreposi,cao de
responsabilidades e fun,6es relegarem o projecto para um segundo lugar.
Assim, podem distinguir-se duas etapas na vida do PREBA: a primeira, de administra9io
sob a direc,ao do GEP e a segunda com administracao independente. A gestao, na
segunda fase, revelou-se mais operativa e eficiente, permitindo agilizar os programas,
recuperar atrasos e cumprir os objectivos essenciais do projecto.
O PREBA conheceu quatro "task manager" do Banco Mundial. Tal significou ter de trabalhar
com distintos estilos de supervisao. E de acentuar, no entanto, a importancia das miss6es
de supervisAo do Banco Mundial, que constituiram, para n6s, ocasi6es de forma,ao t6cnica
e, permitiram, sempre em clima de dialogo e de respeito profissional mutuo, a antecipagio
de situa,ces mais complexas, o apoio t6cnico necessario a boa consecu,co das actividades
previstas em cada componente. 0 acompanhamento, por parte da supervisao do Banco
Mundial, na segunda etapa da vida do projecto, permitiu que se chegasse ao fim do PREBA
com as metas cumpridas. Este intercambio de informa,6es levou a prepara,ao de um novo
projecto que, na vertente Educa,ao, procura consolidar as realiza,c6es alcan,adas no
quadro do cr6dito n01 853 CV.
F. AVALIAQAO DOS RESULTADOS DO PREBA E LIQ;ES APRENDIDAS
Na hora do balan,o final e a luz dos antecedentes apresentados, pode-se afirmar que o
PREBA cumpriu os seus objectivos, existindo um respaldo s6lido de realiza,6es, que
podem confirmar este juizo de valor.
* 0 PREBA foi concebido para satisfazer a necessidade de actualiza,ao e melhoria do
Ensino Basico em Cabo Verde. No encerramento do projecto, o pais conta com um novo
sistema de ensino basico, com urm curriculo integrado de 6 anos, a cargo de professores
capacitados para o leccionarem.
*  Foi possivel dar-se uma resposta adequada as demandas do sector educacional - um
ensino basico integrado acessivel a todas as meninas e meninos em igualdade de
condi,6es. Para este fim  produziram-se manuais escolares, guias de orienta,co
metodol6gica; equipararam-se salas de aula; foi dada forma,ao inicial e em exercicio
aos professores; a rede fisica escolar foi reconvertida; t6cnicos do Minist6rio da
Educa,3o, inspectores e coordenadores pedag6gicos foram capacitados; foi produzida
uma legisla,ao escolar actualizada e instalados sistemas de informa,ao e de melhoria
da gestao do sector Educag3o.



Appendix A
Page 9 of 9
Foi demostrado um bom nivel de eficiencia na utilizacao dos recursos disponiveis,
conforme o piano original do projecto, agregando-se recursos materais e assist6ncia
t6cnicas de outras agencias de coopera,co intemacionais, reduzindo-se os custos com
trabalho intemo (caso da composi,co grafica dos manuais), licitando-se as aquisi,ces
atrav6s de concursos e, de um modo geral, acautelando-se a probidade na gestao
financeira, submetida, anualmente, a auditorias, o que deu garantias de imparcialidade
as partes envolvidas no projecto.
*  0 cumprimento das metas conseguiu alto nivel de eficacia, o que permitiu avan,ar na
definic,ao e prepara,io de um segundo projecto com o Banco Mundial.
Neste sentido as lii6es deixadas pelo PREBA sio multiplas, podendo-se destacar tres, pela
sua relevancia:
1. A operacionaliza,co de um projecto como o PREBA, encontra problemas se se instala
um aparato administrativo cuja burocracia nao facilita a tomada de decis6es, que devem ser
ageis e oportunas, por forma a evitar atrasos na execu,ao das ac,6es. 0 facto de o
Gabinete de Execuc,o do Projecto ter de substituir os orgios institucionalizados por lei para
levar a cabo o desenvolvimento das suas componentes 6 uma fragilidade, que s6 podera
ser ultrapassada pela modemiza,io e refor,o institucional do Minist6rio da Educa,co (em
curso no 2 projecto).
Para o Minist6rio da Educacao tem sido dificil a apropria,co dos beneficios materais e
pedag6gicos que o PREBA trouxe ao sistema. 0 modelo da gestio do Projecto Educacao
de Base e Formacao (PEBF) acautela ja algumas dificuldades vividas e tirou proveito da
experiencia do PREBA.
2. Uma segunda li,io deixada pelo PREBA 6 que os responsaveis da gestao de projectos
deveriam ter formac3o previa e conhecimentos adequados para um desempenho id6neo
das fun6,ces que exercem. Um projecto financiado pelo Banco Mundial, com regras muito
pr6prias, nao se compadece com uma gestiao em que se uaprende pelo erro". A formacao
do gestor e do staff t6cnico (incluindo o contabilista) contribuira para uma execu,ao rigorosa
das tarefas.
3. Por ultimo consideramos que um processo da Reforma Educativa, como o que foi levado
a cabo pelo PREBA, necessita, para ser bem sucedido, de maior envolvimento de todos os
niveis do sistema educativo e da administra,ao central e regional. A nivel central, 6 preciso
fortalecer a coordena,ao entre as distintas direc,6es e dota-las de recursos humanos e
materiais adaptados a um estilo de gestao moderna e descentralizada da educa,co. A nivel
das delega,6es escolares 6 preciso refor,ar a capacidade t6cnica destas estruturas
descentralizadas, a sua capacidade de coordena,co pedag6gica e de gestio escolar, de
modo a fazerem, in loco, o acompanhamento da reforma. A nivel dos estabelecimentos do
ensino, deve-se terminar a Carta Escolar do EBI, completar a constru,co e equipamentos de
escolas, assegurar um corpo docente de qualidade, meios e materiais escolares, beneficios
educativos e, especialmente, dotar os p6los educativos de autonomia de gestao
administrativa e pedag6gica.
Pouco se tera ganho com o PREBA se o Ministerio da Educa,co desaproveitar a
oportunidade hist6rica de capacitar o sector Educa,ao com os requisitos de qualidade e
eficiencia que a modernidade exige.
Cidade da Praia, 1 de Dezembro de 1995, A Directora do PREBA, Maria Adriana Cauvalho






Appendix B
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
Ministry of Education, Final Report on
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
IDA CREDIT 1853-CV
by
PREBA Project Coordination Unit
December 1, 1996
English Translation
A. Introduction
This primary education upgrading project in the Republic of Cape Verde, the subject of IDA
Credit 1853-CV, was launched on October 29, 1987 and completed on June 30, 1995. While the
general aim of the project was to improve the quality and efficiency of the country's primary
education system and by extension its ]iteracy, productivity, health status and population growth rate
indicators, the operation had four major specific objectives: (1) to prepare, implement and evaluate a
new basic education curriculum; (2) to upgrade the quality of primary school teachers; (3) to prepare
textbooks and teaching materials to go with the new curriculum, and (4) to improve education sector
management. These objectives translated into a group of four separate project components, to which
was added a fith, consisting of studies on education costs and low-cost school/classroom
construction methods. Total project cost was estimated at US$5.7 million, roughly 20% of which, or
US$1.07 million, was to be contributed by the Government with the remainder financed by an IDA
credit of US$4.20 million, to be disbursed over a seven and a half year period from 1988 to 1995.
While this Implementation Report discusses the lessons learned through execution of the project
firom the standpoint of their implications for reform of the country's public education system, it does
not deal with questions more suitably dealt with as part of an audit of the project financial
statements, a task which, in accordance with World Bank guidelines, has been performed by a
specialized finn of auditors, whose own report will be available in the near future.
This report provides a critical assessment of the separate project components. In each case,
outcome is considered in terms of the fbllowing indicators: (i) coherence between project design and
targeted needs; (ii) capacity to respond to perceived and emerging demand; (iii) efficiency in
utilization of available resources; and (iv) effectiveness in meeting goals set. Results as presented
focus on institutional implementation capacity (planning, organization, skills, resources, leadership,
and support) at the five separate stages each component involved (design, pilot fine-tuning,
execution, evaluation). The conclusions to the Report enumerate the key lessons learned from this
evaluation exercise and incorporate recommendations relevant to the Basic Education and Training
Project (IDA Credit 2675) now under way.
This report was prepared by the Project Coordinating Unit under the direction of Ms. Adriana
Carvalho and in conjunction with Mr. Emesto Toro, a consultant retained by the World Bank to
advise on the technicalities involved.  It is based on material taken from official project
docunentation, annual progress reports to the financing agency, UNESCO's evaluation of education
sector refomis, reports from the Gulbenkian Foundation, and also the consultant's records of



Appendix B
Page 2 of 10
interviews with Ministry of Education officials and visits to urban and rural schools during his stay in
Praia from November 1 to I, 1995.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
1. Res1ruturib  of the Basic Education System
There were two segments to this project component: (a) development of a new curriculum,
textbooks, teacher guides, and new examination methods and tools; and (b) pilot testing of the new
curriculum in the municipality of Santa Cruz.
(a) A new basic education curriculum plan was successfully developed, and officially approved by
Government Order No. 53/93, which affirmed that -- in accordance with the Education System Law
(Decree No. 103, of March 1990) -- basic education consisted of a single, self-contained cycle
organized into three two-year segments, the curriculum for which prescribed core subjects to be
taught in three phases using single-teacher, multi-grade instruction methods. The Cape Verde
primary education system was thus extended from four to six years of basic schooling for all
children throughout the Republic.
Syllabuses were drawn up, printed and distributed for the three original core subjects, namely
Portuguese, mathematics, and "integrated sciences." In addition, a syllabus was written covering the
field of self-expression (physical education and motor development, music and the plastic arts), an
innovation that gave due weight to hitherto neglected but important aspects of the personal and
social development of children. In each case, syllabuses were printed up in lots of 1,500 copies.
Textbooks were produced covering the three original core subjects for the six years of EBI (i.e.
integrated basic education). Initially, there had been no plans for integrated science textbooks for
EBI phases I and 2, since at the time the project was launched there were recent editions of
textbooks on environmental and social studies in circulation. For reasons of outdated content and
unsuitability for the new curriculum, new textbooks were produced for grades 2, 3 and 4. In all, 17
textbooks were written, and 18 teacher guides were produced covering the three subjects indicated.
In the field of self-expression, completed teacher guides and textbooks are needed urgently by
teachers in the schools and by inspectors and technical specialists attached to municipal offices of the
Ministry of Education, who take the position that musical and aesthetic expression is something
natural in the culture and life style of Cape Verdeans and should be fostered.
To summarize, in 1995 the new integrated basic education (EBI) is in place in all schools
throughout the country. The previous systems -- the four-year EBE (basic elementary education) and
the extremely selective two-year EBC (basic supplementary education) -- have been done away
with, and all children of school age are now entitled to a six-year basic education course. The
production and distribution of syllabuses and teacher guides (in Portuguese, mathematics, and
integrated sciences) has been a greater innovation, since they did not exist previously. The extension
by two years of what is regarded as the basic education to be provided for all Cape Verdean children
is another project outcome of great significance. Also to be noted is the focus on integration of
teaching materials, and the emphasis on the teaching methods to be used in the classroom. These
curriculum-related decisions led to the organization of teacher training programs, both pre-service



Appendix B
Page 3 of 10
and in-service, and of retraining courses fbr the corps of school inspectors and coordinators. The
integration of the currculum was reflected in the textbooks produced for pupils and the materials
intended for teachers. The end result has been a total reform of the structure and content of the basic
education system that has proved broadly acceptable not only to those who must make it work but
also to parents and the general community. These favorable opinions have been systematically
reported and exanined in studies by UNESCO and the Gulbenkian Foundation, which supported
preparations for and introduction of the reforms. (Refer to annexed materials, 'Documentation on
Project Implementation and Evaluation.")
(b) Po testing Qf new curriculum in Santa Cruz municipalit The new EBI curriculum was pilot
tested on two different occasions and under different sets of circumstances. The first test was
conducted in Santa Cruz municipality in 14 class groups, from grades I to 4, over the period 1989-
1991. However, the experiment was not conclusive, for the fbllowing reasons: (i) the sample proved
not be representative; (ii) the range of teaching materials available was incomplete and there were
interruptions in the distribution process; (ini) the curriculum comprised cognitive disciplines only;
and (iv) support measures for the experiment were faulty. In addition, materials for the third
segrnent of the EBI (grades 5 and 6) were not ready for 1991/92, so that testing of the entire,
uninterrupted curriculum (grades I to 6) was rendered impossible.
Accordingly, the syllabuses and prototype textbooks were tested again between 1992 and 1994,
but this time in four municipalities (Praia, Santa Cruz, Santa Catarina, San Vicente). The new
sample consisted of a total of 556 pupils in 18 class groups from grades 1 to 6, and was therefore
more representative and diversified. Over the two-year test period, training courses for participating
teachers were provided by Gulbenkian Foundation consultants. This second trial was given official
status by Order No. 60/90, which designated the schools that were to take part in the experiment and
prescnbed the types of examination and the grading requirements to which students would be
subject A plan for monitoring and evaluating the curriculum reform was drawn up and
implemented, revealing the opinions on the new system held by parents, teachers, and pupils (EBI
third segment).
The experinent culminated in a comparative evaluation of the learning process as experienced
by EBI pilot groups and groups following the traditional curriculum. Better results were obtained in
the pilot groups, as may be seen from the data assembled in Annex No. 2.
2. Upgrading the Qualy of Prinary School Teachers
The material now following consists of information on: (a) in-service training; (b) pre-service
training; (c) teacher salary scales and conditions of employment; and (d) construction of the Institute
of Education.
(a) In-service teacher training: Although it was initially planned to provide training in teaching EBI
syllabuses for 1,200 primary school teachers, the final total was 1,600. The program was carried out
between April 1988 and December 1994, in two phases. The first step was to take 956 teachers
whose basic qualifications were their own schooling up to sixth grade and to instruct them in
teaching grades 1 to 4. In the course of the second step, 644 individuals, all in possession of the
primary school teaching certificate, were trained to provide instruction in all six grades of the new
EBI system.



AppendixB
Page 4 of 10
(b) Pre-service teacher training: This was to be provided by an Institute of Education that was to be
built and inaugurated in the course of project execution. Under the terms of Article VL Section 6.01
of the Credit Agreement, its establishment as a legal entity was one of the conditions for project
effectiveness, fulfilled by the issue of Decree No. 18/88, of March 9. The Institute did not
materialize, however, and the Organizing Committee never fimctioned. Only in 1992 (Decree No.
26/92, of February 28) were conditions created to enable the Institute to begin operations, offering a
curriculum consistent with the profile of the teacher required for the EBI system. It was thus not
until 1992 that the Institute began to fimction as anticipated, quickly increasing its annual enrollment
capacity from 50 to 210 students. Its enabling legislation and regulations were finally enacted in
1994.
Since the period 1988-1991 went by without the Institute of Education materializing, the only
source of pre-service teacher training continued to be the Primary Teacher Training College, which
had prepared teachers for the old four-year basic education system and did not adjust to the new six-
year curriculum. One of the results of this situation was that the Project Executing Unit took on the
functions of an educational training institution, e.g. in-service teacher training, evaluation (the
education system itself and available training), and production of teaching materials. The fact that the
Project Unit was given these additional fimctions explains why its staff became larger than
anticipated.
(c) Teacher salarv scales and career status: Reform in education needs to include formal recognition
of the value status of those working in the field, particularly teachers. In Cape Verde, such
recognition meant not only reclassifying teachers in terrns of their training history, but also
introducing legislation governing the profession (Legislative Decree No. 11/93, of September 13,
which prescribes job descriptions, career paths, and salary scale; and Legislative Decree No. 12/93,
which prescribes principles and rules for the organization and management of teaching personnel).
All teachers who received in-service training were reclassified. Graduates of the first phase of
the in-service training course for basic education teachers were incorporated as Primary Teachers
(Transitional Corps), while graduates of the second phase were reclassified as Basic Education
Teachers (Professional Corps). Despite the fact it took effect two years behind schedule, this
promotion was a decisive factor in affirmiing the status of teachers working in basic education.
Recipients of in-service training saw their salaries increased by an average of 26%, with the project
contributing US$640,000 to the cost involved. Since then, the new salaries have been paid regularWy
by the authorities.
(d) Building and eqpping  the Institute of Education: Both project and government funds were
used to finance the construction and fitting up of the building occupied by the Project Unit and
Education Institute headquarters. (The Institute also occupies other premises, in the town of
Mindelo, which were partially equipped through the project.). Building costs were higher than
anticipated, because of delays in beginning procurement proceedings. The resulting cost difference
was covered by the Government. Begun in 1993, this construction job was completed a year later.
By the project closing date, the Institute was fully equipped.



Appendix B
Page 5 of 10
3. Tedbooks, Teacher Guides, and TeachingMateals
The informiation which now follows covers: (a) textbook preparation, distributior, and cost
recovery; (b) preparation, printing, and distribution of manuals and handbooks to guide teachers; and
(c) distribution of teaching materials and school supplies.
(a) TI   k preparation. distribution. andco srecovery    The textbooks produced as part of
the project constitute one of the key reforms in the country's basic education system. Their
production involved the provision of training (i) for teaching personnel in cumiculum/syllabus
development, and (ii) for the technical personnel in charge of the textbook distribution and
warehousing system. Some distribution problems (the country consists of islands; access to some
municipalities can be difficult) still remain to be solved.
In order to facilitate recovery of textbook printing costs, a special revolving fund was set up in
1992, and later converted under the terms of Order No. 6/95 into a fully fledged legal entity to be
known as the Fundo Especial de Eagdo (FEE, or Special Publishing Fund). Proceeds from sales of
textbooks are credited to the Fund, giving it the financial wherewithal to reprint them.
The FEE is funded not only by pupils' parents (who buy textbooks at near-cost prices) but also
by the private businesses which market the textbooks. However, since few households have the
means to contribute to the FEE in this way, particularly in rural areas, other sources of funding need
to be identified.
Although the neediest children can obtain EBI textbooks and school supplies free of charge
through ICASE (Cape Verdean Institute for Social Action in Schools), no household surveys have
been performed that would provide a basis for assessing the real need for this type of help or other
benefits such as school meal and health programs. ICASE vith UNICEF support, is about to carry
out a study of this type in certain municipalities, but unfortunately its coverage will not be broad
enough to generate adequate information on actual demand for the basic education now to be
provided for all Cape Verdean children.
(b) earaiorL printin and ds      o   f ts gui: With support from the Calouste
Gulbenkian Foundation, the project resulted in the production not only of textbooks for the subjects
of Portuguese, mathematics, and integrated sciences (17 titles) but also the corresponding teacher
guides (18 titles). The production of 700,000 textooks and 30,000 teacher guides (half of them up
tDo he pre-printing stage) was well beyond the initial goal of distnbuting 440,000 textbooks and close
to 9,000 guides. Original estimates had to be recast to allow for the demand for teaching materials,
which grew significantly with extension of the basic education system to include all children. Future
demand for textbooks and teacher guides will be covered by reprintng (as part of the Basic
Education Training Project [Credit 2675-CV], already under way).
(c) Techg maril and school upplie: Thanks to a Gulbenlian Foundation grant, school
requirernents and supplies (exercise books, book bags, etc.) were distributed to the first pupils to
begin the new EBI cuniculum. Extension of the EBI system to all children means that the Ministry
of Education (I)iectrate of School Administration) will need to expand its distribution of teaching
materials. Credit 2675-CV includes funds to finance classroom teaching materials.



Appendix B
Page 6 of 10
4.        Improved Educaion Sector Management
One project objective was to improve the organization and management of the Ministry of
Education, and it was with this in view that Decree Law No. 116/87 introduced new legislation to
govern the Ministry of Education and vest Ministry personnel with the power to put it into effect.
The project included support for the Ministry with drafting of its Basic Education Policy
Statement; and training of its GEP (Research and Planning Bureau) staff in the collection and
processing of educational statistics. Three training workshops were arranged for the Ministry
representatives and technical staff of five municipalities.
The project also funded establishment of a computerized data base for GEP and training for the
staff who would use it. The Ministry needs to eliminate certain technical problems, especially those
that lessen the credibility of data collected by the GEP from the municipal branches of the Ministry,
since the quality of official statistics is affected. The problems are: (i) delays in remitting information
to the central level of the Ministry, although all municipal branches have been equipped with fax
machines; and (ui) the quality of the data forwarded to the GEP, which frequently have to be cleared
of inconsistencies and incongruities.
Clearly, the Ministry needs to upgrade the qualifications and skills of its personnel responsible
for statistics preparation. The GEP itself has pointed out that modemization of the Ministry and
eventual computerization of its municipal branches will not solve the problem unless accompanied
by appropriate staff technical training.
There can be no doubt that the GEP has been strengthened significantly with the addition of its
project-financed data base, a key tool that will enable it to monitor the reform process closely over
the next few years. Expansion of this information system as it now stands, so that it will also cover
reforms in secondary education, is entirely feasible.
Nevertheless, in the opinion of the Project Executing Unit, it was this component that showed
the poorest implementation rate. Part of the explanation lies in the focus given to the design and
subsequent adoption of the EBI the central purpose of the project. At the same time, however, it
may be pointed out that the AfDB-financed Education System Restructuring and Expansion Project
reinforced the Ministry of Education in the institutional sense, a change that led to a natural and
alnost silent division of labor.
5.        Studies
The original project plans called for two studies to be conducted, on the following subjects: (i)
education financing costs; and (ii) low-cost methods of school/classroom construction. Although in
the end neither of the two was undertaken, three others were actually carried out, namely: (a)
"Adaptation of the School Network to Integrated Basic Education," which consisted of a
preliminary program, a proposal for full-scale adaptation, an inventory of necessary classroom
furniture and equipment, and a cost estimate. (b) "Preparations for School Map Updating." (c)
"Prevalence of Consumption of Psychoactive Substances in the Cape Verde School-Age
Population."



Appendix B
Page 7 of 10
C.        Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
Project results were the outcome not only of activities successfully completed but also of
difficulties circumvented.
According to project contractual documents, project staff was to consist of director, deputy
director, and accountant. Execution of the components of the project was to be the responsibility of
various Directorates of the Ministry of Education. However, from 1988 to 1991, the GEP
accumulated project-management functions, a situation that proved unsatisfactory because of the
excessive number of tasks and responsibilities that fell to this one entity and its staff, the explanation
for this being that because of difficulties in the various Directorates (lack of competent technical
personnel, management problems, etc.) project execution activities eventually fell behind schedule,
to be taken over by the Project Unit and its technical staff (which therefore had to be increased).
In the course of 1991, the GEP/Project Unit was separated formally into its two parts, with a
consequent significant increase in GEP operating capacity [in non-project spheres].
The project had the benefit of major support from the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundafion,
UNESCO, and Portuguese institutions of higher education.
The change of schooling system was made easier by the fact that the reform proposed, and
especially the EBI model, encountered no significant resistance from the teaching profession, which
also benefited from a salary increase and a formalized salary and career advancement structure, or
from parents, who reacted positively to the new pattem of instruction.
Rehabilitation of school facilities (following a study made as part of the project), shorter
distances between school and home, and the access to expanded education that EBI afforded all
children of primary-school age (95% coverage) were three of the factors contributing to acceptance
of the new system by parents, especially in rural areas.
D. Sustainability of Project Results
By the time the project came to a close, the Ministry of Education was managing to sustain the
advances achieved, both technically and financially. For the future, however, special attention should
be paid to the following points: (a) teaching aids need to be developed for the self-expression
component of the EBI curriculum; (b) FEE (Special Publishing Fund) administration could be
tighter; (c) there is room for improvement of the school map; (d) the GEP should be strengthened so
that it is better equipped to monitor the reform process; (e) the Education Ministry divisions
responsible for inter-island textbook distribution need to ensure that pupils receive their books in
good time; (f) training for EBI teachers needs to be completed; (g) there is room for better
coordination and communication among Education Ministry departments; and (h) arrangements
(involving the development of information systems, even if rudimentary) are needed for ongoing
monitoring and evaluation of EBI system impact from both the administrative and educational
standpoints.



Appendix B
Page 8 of 10
E. Performance of Parties to the Project
The basis for assessing the performance of parties to the project is to be found in the
Development Credit Agreement itself. The designation of the Ministry of Education as project
execution agency, and the prescribed allocation of responsibilities among its departments and
divisions, were logical, in our opinion, particularly as they were calculated to make the project part
and parcel of the structure and operations of the country's educational apparatus -- a strategy that
should have precluded the existence of parallel operating entities and also Ministry difficulties in
incorporating results achieved by the time the project closed, as in fact occurred.
However, this arrangement proved unworkable, given the (many] functions exercised by the
GEP (which gradually took on the management of the project) within the overall structure of the
Ministry of Education and existing shortcomings in both organization and staffing.; its overload of
responsibilities and functions meant that it relegated the project to the second plane.
Two phases can be distinguished in the life of the project: the first; when it was managed by the
GEP [Research and Planning Bureau, Ministry of Education]; and the second, when it was managed
independently of the GEP.
The arrangements in place during the second phase proved more workable and efficient,
allowing a better pace of program implementation, a return to schedule, and accomplishment of key
project objectives.
In all, the project had four World Bank task managers. While this meant working with four
different supervision styles, Bank supervision missions were important: they were a source of
technical training for Cape Verdean personnel, and -- always in a climate of dialogue and mutual
professional respect -- they provided opportunities for early identification of potentially complex
situations and afforded the kind of technical support needed as a basis for successful completion of
the activities makdng up the various project components. During the second phase, monitoring in the
form of Bank supervision meant that the project reached completion with its goals accomplished.
The exchanges of views and information inevitably associated with these occasions laid the
foundations for a new education project designed to secure and consolidate the achievements of
Credit No. 1853-CV.
F. Assessment of Project Outcome; Lessons Learned
This project achieved its objectives, a conclusion warranted by a solid record of performance
successes:
This was an undertalkng designed to upgrade and improve basic education in Cape Verde.
When it was completed, the country possessed a new system of basic education consisting of an
integrated six-year cumculum taught by appropriately trained teachers.
.The project made it possible to respond adequately to the demands made on the education sector,
through the provision of integrated basic education accessible to all school-age children. (To this
end: textbooks and teacher guides were produced, classrooms were equipped; pre-service and in-



Appendix B
Page 9 of 10
service teacher training was provided; a school building and rehabilitation program was carried out;
training was made available for Ministiy of Education technical staff, inspectors, and coordinators;
the legislation governing the schooling system was brought up to date; and information systems and
improved management practices were introduced into the education sector).
*Available resources were efficiently used, in accordance with the original project plans, in
combination with new physical resources and technical assistance from other international entities
besides the World Bank. Costs were kept down by reliance not only on local capabilities (e.g. type-
setting of textbooks) but also on competitive procurement procedures, transparency in financial
administration, and annual audits of accounts, all of which guaranteed impartiality in project
dealings.
*Accomplishment of the goals set for the project resulted in a high level of efficiency, while
facilitating formulation of and preparations for a second World Bank project.
Hence, there are vanrous lessons to be leamed from this project, the following being the three
most relevant:
1. The operational side of a venture like the Primary Education Upgrading Project will be affected
by problems unless the governmental executing entity is set up in such a way that decisions can be
reached on a prompt, flexible basis that precludes delays in implementation.
The fact that in this case the executing entity had to take the place of the government
departments responsible under the law for carrying out the components of the project constituted a
weakness, only to be overcome through modernization and institutional strengthening of the Ministry
of Education (now in progress, as part of the second project).
It has proved difficult for the Ministry to incorporate the material and educational benefits which
this project has brought to the primary schooling system.
Some difficulties presented by the execution management model used for the later Basic
Education and Training Project have been solved on the basis of experience gained through this
project.
2. Project management officials need adequate prior training and experience if they are to carry out
their responsibilities competently. A project financed by the World Bank, and subject to very
characteristic requirements, is not suited to the type of management that allows room for learning
through mistakes.
If the project director and the members of the project technical team (the accountant included)
possess the right qualifications, there is that much greater likelihood that project tasks will be
performed strictly as prescribed.
3. If an educational reform project such as the one under review here is to succeed, then the close
involvement of all levels of the education system and of the central and regional administrative
apparatus is clearly advisable.



Appendix B
Page 10 of 10
At the central level, there is a need to increase coordination among Education Ministry
departments and provide them with staff and equipment in keeping with a modem, decentralized
style of education sector management. In the case of the regional education authorities, their
technical know-how, as well as their educational coordination and school management capabilities,
need to be reinforced so that they are equipped to monitor the reform process locally.
Where schools themselves are concemed, the focus should be on: completing the school map of
the reformed system, finishing building and equipping programs, ensuring that the teaching corps is
of high quality, distributing teaching aids and school supplies, delivering school-based educational
benefits, and vesting school regions with managerial and educational autonomy.
Little advantage will accrue from this project in the end if the Ministry of Education lets slip the
historic opportunity to introduce in the education sector those elements of quality and efficiency
which will bring it up to present-day standards.
CITY OF PRAIA, DECEMBER 1, 1995 Is/ Maria Adriana Carvalho Director, Primary
Education Upgrading Project



MAP SECTION



z
t
I



IBRD 20648R
- hlo do 501                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~2A'                                                                            23'
R,.   .Cho o N          VI 
SANTO ANTAO                                                                                         C  A  P  E    v  E  R  D  E
i7.                                VId. P6,,N.
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
-DNEL0     
none        _           -    SAG  VICENTE
-- . NTA   LUZIA                                                                                                                                                        PdP drd L-
. raeCa                              SAO  NICOLAU                                                                                                                SAL
-  xBancoi,noi=V odeR, 
Roso e        flr                                !    + n                                                                                              01  ol
R-o                    1PQuo         _11-1_
EBI inple.entatioa crea                                                                                                                                                   va....al                       Gala
' Council Boandarie,                                                                                                                                            BO      A VISTA                               d., F
*  Ino1,te oF Educlaton - Laation ProIi
*     Minir,ty of Edvcoatio  office- in the co_til_it                                                                                                                                                                         i6*
*  Main port,                                                                                                                                                                                         Co  eh
Other port,
Isht,ttO Depth) i4, -e1e-,
s -- Reefs
VWreck
fvan roads
Nat.onal copttl
K,iOMETtt  0       10      20      30      *0      50       60
o  To_ns                                   MILE5 0            t10o         20           30           40
Et-t-.on  in  elr
_      000<
f 7   500 -000a                                                                                                        SANTIAGO                            k5a             to
_     0 -  500d5"                                                                                                  __                                                       omr 
_jk L  ah~ ~odt dw .i                                  da Co   ,ta
Rdise.na doba coa                                   Olrd do h,,
MAUit IIANsa  x                                                                                                                                  Po l. +.J*1 _
AwEA   sEeEc^W;         ,J    vo"                 ~Secos                                                                                                               d.Jr  .1deu
or eat  Ta                            i                              nt S. a                                                                                                                                                              ,  baAnCda    a,tt,.t: 
'5                                           C NAM,dr dr4                          FOGO                                           r,aa V             r_ iA      MOE Headquarlers
tootA   *   ,          t IC.        F.,                                          C .                                                                   PAIAO
L iiY a  r          BRAVA _o                   ~          Aclz7,                                                                                                                                      Fnp' r,c
24'a,aooan,at .Af  l  OVo
2~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                               p-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY 1996









iMAGIN 3
Report No:      15705
Type: ICR



