Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6844-CV
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
October 29, 1987
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenwise be disclosed without World Bank authortion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 1987)
Currency Unit = CV Esc.
US$1 = CV Esc. 72.4
CV Esc. 1 million - US$13,812
MEASURES
lm = 1.09 yd.
1m2 = 10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2 = 0.38 sq. ft.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
CSE            Complementary Secondary Education
CVE            Cape Verdean Escudos
DEME           Division of School Equipment and Materials
DGA            Director-General of Administration
DGE            Director-General of Education
DGP            Director-General of Planning
DPD            Deputy Project Director
EBC            Second Cycle Basic Education
EBE            First Cycle Basic Education
EBI            Unitary Six-Year Basic Education
EMPA           Public Supply Company
FCCS           Federation of School Canteens
GEP            Planning and Studies Unit
ICASE          Cape Verdean Institute of Student Welfare
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDi.           International Development Association
IG             Inspector-General of Education
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
MOE            Ministry of Education
NOVIB          Netherlands Organization fcr International Cooperation in
Development
OPEC FUND      Organization for Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund
PAC            Project Advisory Committee
SOE            Statement of ExpenCiture
TRF            Textbook Revolving Fund
UNDP/UNIDO     United Nations Development ProgramlUnited Nations Industrial
Development Organization
UNESCO         United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
UNICEF         United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
UNIPAC         United Nations International Procurement and Assembly Center
Fiscal Year                         School Year
January 1 - December 31                 October - June



FOR 0MCL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
P?e
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE                      iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                    iv
I.   INTRODUCTION                                             1
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR                                     1
A.   Overview
B.   Issues in Basic Education Development               2
1.   Poor Quality and Low Efficiency               ?
2.   Management and Planning                        6
3.   Financial Constraints                          6
C.   The Government's Strategy                           7
D.   Bank Group Involvement                              8
III. THE PROJECT                                              9
A.   Project Objectives and Description                  9
1.   Restructuring the Basic Education System      9
2.   Upgrading the Quality of Primary School
Teachers                                     11
3.   Increasing the Availability of Textbooks
and School Supplies                          13
4.   Improving Education Sector Management         14
B.   Project Costs and Financing Plan                   18
C.   Project Implementation                             19
1.   Project Readine%s, Management and
Institution Building                         19
2.   Procurement                                  21
3.   Disbursement                                 22
4.   Special Account                              23
5.   Accountir.g, Auditing and Reporting          23
IV.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                          25
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission that visited
Cape Verde in April-May 1987. The mission consisted of Messrs. D. Hamilton
(Education Platner, Mission Leader), L. Concepcion (Architect) and Ms.
Carmelle Denning (Textbook Specialist-Consultant). The report was drafted
by Messrs. Hamilton and Concepcion. Ms. D. Risen also contributed to the
writing of this report.
This document has a restric. I distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



- il -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEX
1   Basic Data
2    Basic Education Enrollment Ratio - 1985/86
3    Structure of the Education System Showing Current EB Structure
4    Distribution of 1986 MOE Revised Budget
5    Elementary School Teachers (EBE)
6    Teacher Salaries 1982-1986
7    Costs of Textbooks
8    Present Structure of MOE
9    Costs and Financing of Primary Education
10   Unit Costs of Education 1982-86
11   Structure of the Education System Showing Proposed EBI Structure
12   The Stracture of the Institute of Education
13  Development of the Six-Year Basic Education System
14   In-Service Teacher Training
15   Pre-Service Teacher Training Program II
16   Textbooks
17   Proposed Organigram of Ministry of Education
18  Detailed Cost Table
19 Government and MOE Budget Projections
20   Summary Account by Project Component
21   Project Implementation Schedule
22   Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
23   Technical Assistance Schedule
24   Procurement Procedures
25   Summary Accounts by Year
MAP: IBRD 20648



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGlIADING PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.                       Documents                         Document Code
1.     Boletim Official - Decreto Lei No. 152/79,               D04042
154/81, 140-A/85, Decreto Pres. No. 1/86,
177/82, 52/75, 40/86, 59/81, 12/81, 24/78,
47/75, 93/82, Portaria No. 4/83.
2.     Requete Adress6e a la BAD pour le FinanceMent            D04041
d'un Premier  rojet d'Education, UNESCO Juillet
1983.
3.     Recenseamento Geral da Populacao e Habitacao -           D04054
1980 (Vol. VI) Direccao Recenseamentos e
Inqueritos Praia, 1983.
4.     Assistencia Technica no sector educacao  Quadros         D04051
e documentos de trabalho (Vol.11), Fundacao
Calousts Gulb nkian, December 1981
S.     Informacoes sobre Alunos que Frequentam Estudos          D04052
no Exterior, January 1986.
6.     End of Project Evaluation of the Primary and             D04049
Non-Formal Education Project in Cape Verde, Jose
S. Goncalves, May 12, 1986.
7.     Preliminary Baseline Socio-Econiomic Study of the        D04048
Island of Santo Antao, June-August, 1986.
8.     Plans for Integrated Elementary Education Reform         D04046
and Pilot Program in Santa Cruz. Report on
Mission, World Bank - Klaus Galda, December 29,
1986.
9.     Pre-Appraisal Report: In-Service Teacher                 D04047
Training Component, World Bank - Pedro da Cunha,
January 1987.
10.    Textbooks and Supplies in Cape Verde - An Agenda         D04044
for Improvement, January 1987.
11.    Staff Appraisal Report: Textbook Component.              D04043
Publishers Association, Carmelle Denning, May
1987.
12.    Projecto de Lei Organica do Ministerio da                D04053
Educacao.
13.    Organization and Management of the Ministry of           D04045
Education - Scope and Strategy for a Reform.



- iv -
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                 Republic of Cape Verde
Beneficiary:              Ministry of National Education
Credit Amounts            SDR 3.3 million (US$4.2 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard, with 40 years maturity
Proiect Description:      In support of the Government's efforts to improve
the quality and efficiency of basic education, the
overall objective of the project would be to
provide the policy and institutional framcwork,
together with the necessary educational inputs for
establishing nationally an integrated six-year
basic education system, as well as improving
education sector management. These inputs would be
complemented by construction of additional
classrooms required for the countrywide
implementation of the new six-year system, under a
forthcoming AfDB-assisted project. Specifically,
the project would:
1.   Restruture the basic education system by:
preparing, implementing and evaluating the new
curriculum, teaching materials, appropriate
pedagogical methods, and new policies for
promotions and examinations for the new six-year
integrated basic education system, in the
municipality of Santa Cruz;
2.   Uptrade the quality of primary school teachers
bys improving in-service and pre-service primary
school teacher training programs, and introducing
salary incentives to attract and retain qualified
teachers in basic education schoois;
3.   Increase the availability of textbooks,
teaching materials and school supplies by:
supporting the publishing of more appropriately
designed basic education textbooks, establishing a
textbook, teaching materials and school supplies
network;



- v -
4.  Improve education sector management by:
establishing a now organizational structure,
relevant institutional units, and new procedures
for preparing, monitoring and evaluating work
programs of the various departments of the MOE; and
implementing a staff training program.



- vi -
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
Summary of Project Cost Estimates
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
Local      Foreign        Total
-US$ million---------
A.   DEVELOPMENT OF A SIX-YEAR          0.23          0.15         0.38
INTEGRATED PRIMARY EDUCATION
SYSTEM
B.   UPGRADING QUALITY OF PRIMARY
SCHOOL TEACHERS
1.  Pre-service Teacher            0.40         0.46          0.86
Training
2.  Primary School Teacher         0.83         0.14          0.97
Upgrading
C.   INCREASING AVAILABILITY OF         0.24          0.82         1.06
TEXTBOOKS AND SCHOOL SUPPLIES
D.   IMPROVING EDUCATION SECTOR         0.20          0.64         0.84
MANAGEMENT
Total Baseline costs               1.90          2.21         4.11
Physical Contingencies             0.08         0.18          0.26
Price Contingencies                0.72         0.18          0.90
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                2.70          2.57         5.27
Financing Plan (US$ million)
IDA                                1.84         2.36          4.20
Government                         0.86         0.21          1.07
TOTAL                              2.70          2.57         5.27
====   ===          .wmm



- vii -
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
---------------------US$  illion----------------
Annual                  0.36    0.60    0.62    0.74    0.86    0.73    0.29
Cumulative              0.36    0.96    1.58    2.32    3.18    3.91    4.20
Economic Rate of
Return:                   Not applicable.
Project Benefits
and Risks:                By restructuring and integrating the basic
education system into a unitary six-year cycle, the
project will improve both the quality and
efficiency of basic education. This will lead to
increased literacy rates, which will contribute to
greater labor productivity, improved health
practices and decreased fertility over the long
term. By improving education sector management,
upgrading teacher training and introducing a cost
recovery system for textbocks, the project will
provide an institutional framework within which the
sector can continue to gain in quality and
efficiency. Successful achievement of the
educational and institutional development
objectives of the project will depend on Government
commitment and capacity to implement the
administrative reform of the MOE, the increased
budgetary allocations and the reform of the
integrated basic education system. Regular
monitoring and review procedures have been built
into the project to provide opportunities for
consultation between IDA and the Governnxent and to
introduce refinements to project design and
implementation plans as needed.



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      The Government of Cape Verde has requested IDA assistance in
financing a project to upgrade basic education by restructuring the primary
education system, improving the quality of primary school teachers,
increasing the availability of appropriate textbooks and teaching materials
in primary schools, and improving education sector management. Total
project costs are estimated at US$5.3 million equivalent (net of taxes and
duties), with a foreign exchange component of US$2.6 million. The
Government would contribute about US$1.1 million, part of which is expected
to be provided by the Gulbenkian Foundation as direct assistance to the
Government. The remainder (US$4.2 million) would be financed by the
proposed IDA Credit.
1.2      The project would be the Bank Group's first contribution to the
education sector in Cape Verde and would support the Government's efforts
to improve the quality of its education system. In the absence of
significant mineral deposits and because of scant agricultural potential,
long-term development of the country depends on increasing the productivity
of the labor force. In addition to improving the quality of the labor
force to satisfy the immediate requirements of the economy, a sound
education system is crucial to providing, for the medium term, adequately
trained manpower to exploit the limited potential in the fishing and
service sectors. Consequently, the poor quality and inefficiency of basic
education, which adversely affect education at higher levels and the
productivity of the labor force, must be addressed as a prerequisite to
further development of the economy. The Basic Data Sheet and Comparative
Education Indicators are found in Annex 1.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Overview
2.1      A basic education system of six years, comprising two cycles of
four years and two years respectively, is followed by three years of lower
and two years of upper secondary education, There is no university
education in Cape Verde. In 1985-86, about 58,000 were enrolled at the
basic education level, about a 100% enrollment ratio; almost 94% of the
students were enrolled in the formal education system, with 81% (47,000) of
these enrolled in the first cycle. Lower secondary education -- with about
3,000 pupils distributed in three schools -- accounts for about 79% of
secondary education, while complementary secondary education (CSE) enrolls
830 in the only school for this cycle located in the capital, Praia. There
is one secondary technical school, with an enrollment of about 700, located
in Mindelo, the largest commercial/industrial center. Also, a number of
ministries provide in-house training courses. Teacher training for first
cycle basic education (EBE) enrolls about 60 student teachers and is
conducted in borrowed classrooms of an elementary school in Praia.



- 2 -
Training of teachers for the second cycle basic education (EBC) and
secondary education is organized in the Institute of Applied Research. In
1986, the two cycles of basic education accounted for about 69% of the
education budget; secondary general education, including teacher training,
for about 17.4%; and central administration for about 4.5%. Of the
remaining 10%, technical education accounted for 3.2%, while adult and
radio education accounted for 3.7%. Annex 2 ahows a breakdown of
enrollment in basic education in 1985 and 1986. Annex 3 shows the
structure of the education system, and Annex 4 the MOE 1986 revised budget.
B. Issues in Basic Education Development
2.2      Basic education development in Cape Verde faces three major
issuess poor quality and low efficiency; weak management and planning; and
severe financial constraints.
1. Poor Quality and Low Efficiency
2.3      Inappropriate Educational Structure.  Alt!hough the gross
enrollment ratio is about 100%, the quality and efficiency of the six-year
basic education system in Cape Verde are low. Only 14% of those who enter
the first year successfully complete the six-year cycle, and even they are
often deficient in basic education skills. The primary cause of this
inefficiency and poor quality is the inappropriata structure of the
education system, which is predicated on mastery of basic education skills
in the first cycles (grades 1-4) and prematurely introduces the secondary
school curriculum in the second cycle (grades 5-6). Most pupils cannot
master the ambitious curriculum objectives in the first four-year cycle,
and 29% of the enrollment at this level are repeaters. Between the first
and fourth grades, 52% drop out, and only about 60% of fourth graders pass
the final examinations. Because of this high level of repetition and
dropout, the pupil years spent per graduate are ten instead of the
theoretieal four. With a weak educational base, the majority of pupils who
continue to the second cycle are unprepared for the more advanced concepts
of the secondary education curriculum and repeat grades several times, or
drop out before completing the cycle. About 30% of enrollment at this
level are repeaters, and 52% drop out over the two-year period; thus five
pupil years are spent per graduate instead of the planned two.
2.4      The output of graduates of the six-year cycle is further affected
by the low transition rate between the first and second cycles. This stems
from inadequate provision of second cycle school places, which prevents
about 50% of those who pass the fourth grade examinations from entering the
fifth grade. Provision of second cycle school places is affected by high
per pupil costs, about US$85 (more than twice as much as for the first
cycle), generated by the introduction of a secondary curriculum in this
cycle, which requires teachers with higher levels of qualification and more
complex teaching materials and facilities. These high unit costs limit the
Government's ability to expand second cycle basic education. In addition,
sec,nd cycle school places are inequitably distributed in favor of urban
areas, limiting access for rural pupils. This inequity stems from greater
teacher specialization at the second cycle level which requires nine
teachers per school to cover all curriculum areas, i.e., many more teachers
than can be provided in schools in smaller settlements. Student transition
rates are found in Annex 2.



2.5      lnefficient Examinations.  Annual examinations in each grade are a
further cause of inefficiency and poor quality. Annual tests are prepared
and evaluated by unqualified teachers, and decisions made on the results of
these tests are often unreliable and inconsistent. This practice sometimes
results either in the promotion of below average students or the holding
back of good students due to unnecessarily high standards.
2.6      Poor Quality Teachers.  The performance of basic education is also
affected by the poor quality of teachers.  In 1986, 34% of all first cycle
teachers were unqualified to teach the prescribed curriculum, lacking the
special pedagogical skills needed in Cape Verdean schools. Teacher quality
is affected primarily by the limited output and poor training facilities,
and the inability of the Government to recruit and retain qualified
teachers. Between 1981 and 1986, the annual supply of graduates from the
teacher training institutes was generally less than th- annual increase in
demand, leading to an increase in the number of unqualified teachers. This
situation 3tems largely from the limited capacity of the teacher training
institutes. The combined capacity of the two institutes is about 120 and
consists of four borrowed classrooms in basic education schools, two in
Praia and two in Mindelo. However, between 1984 and 1986, this already
limited capacity was further reduced by the closure of the school in
Mindelo to provide second cycle school places.  The quality of training
provided by these institutions is also low due to the absence of
appropriate teaching facilities and a permanent teaching staff. Offices
for the institution directors and clerks are the only other rooms
available, apart from the classrooms, and the teaching staff are recruited
from secondary school teachers employed on a part-time basis.
2.7      Opportunities for in-service teacher upgrading are also limited,
despite the large number of unqualified teachers, and the strong motivation
of these teachers to upgrade their skills. The structure for in-service
training Is well conceived with study groups, led by qualified or
experienced teachers, established in each of 72 pedagogical zones and
supported by district in-service coordinators. However, there are no
nationally recognized programs for teacher upgrading, and the system is
starved for resources. Teachers wishing to upgrade their qualifications do
so with their own resources and often leave the profession for other
occupations.
2.8      Low teacher salaries and career insecurity limit the Government's
ability to recruit and retain qualified teachers. In 1982, primary school
teachers on average earned less than car drivers, goveran-ent clerks and
sales persons. Entry-level teachers spend ten years at the bottom of the
salary scale, in a temporary status, and can be terminated without benefit3
or notice. In 1986, 69% of qualified teachers and 87% of unqualified
teachers had no tenure; only 5% of the total teaching force were qualified
with tenure. Again, as a result of the above, graduating teachers prefer
not to enter the profession, and qualified serving teachers leave teaching
for better paying jobs. Furthermore, between 1982 and 1986, the annual
losses of teachers to other professions exceeded the annual output of
qualified teachers which was already inadequate to meet the increase in
demand. Training of second cycle teachers in the two-year course for
eleventh grade graduates is organized on an ad hoc basis and is equally



- 4 -
limited in quality and capacity. Output from this course has averaged six
teachers per year since its inception in 1980/81, and most graduates have,
in the end, opted for other jobs over teaching. Annex 5 provides
information on teacher quality and supply, and Annex 6 contains information
on teacher salaries.
2.9      Scarcity of Pedagogically Relevant Textbooks and School Materials.
The basic education system in Cape Verde suffers from an inadequate supply
of affordable, appropriately designed textbooks and teacher guides in all
subjects. Textbooks wl.Ich are available are too costly for most pupils,
due to expensive production standards and procurement systems, and are
difficult for pupils to obtain, due to inefficient distribution and
marketing procedures. Replenishment of the supply of textbooks, teacher
guides and writing materials is also uncertain, due to financial
constraints on procurement of educational materials.
2.10     Although parents are responsible for providing their children with
primary school textbooks and consumable school materials, the Government
provides some support for pupils from the most deprived families, estimated
at about 40% of total enrollment. Teacher guides are not provided by the
Government, however, and it is the responsibility of teachers to buy their
own. Both textbooks and teacher guides are scarce in classrooms since the
cost to parents (who spend first on consumable materials) and teachers
(with low salaries) is beyond their means. Primary textbook costs range
from 44 to 384 Cape Verdean Escudos (CVE) (US$0.61-5.30). Estimates of a
1980 survey in Praia of household income and expenditure indicated that
only 58-81 CVE per pupil was available in 1980 for buying textbooks and
consumable school materials. The books published in 1980, which are still
sold at 44 CVE, would cost more than 80 CVE (US$0.80-1.12) to publish at
1987 prices.
2.11     Due to the scarcity of textbooks in classrooms, teaching methods
have evolved -- through necessity -- which exclude books. The content of
some books is inappropriate either pedagogically or with respect to the
educational context of Cape Verde. Many teachers, insufficiently trained
in the use of teacher guides, avoid the use of books. For example, some
teachers even advise students not to buy mathematics books, while other
books are not regarded as absolute prerequisites for education. These
inadequacies are linked to the outdated curriculum and basic education
structure, deficient teaching methodology, as well as the absence of pre-
tested educational materials and evaluation of book use.
2.12     The practice of teaching without textbooks proves to be even more
inappropriate because of the shift system used by almost all schools in
Cape Verde. Such a system reduces the number of hours spent by students in
the classroom in an effort to maximize classroom utilization. However, the
advantages are quickly reduced, since students spending fewer hours in
school have no access to the necessary materials to permit individual work
outside the classroom.
2.13     The methods used for designing and procuring books indicate that
costs could be reduced significantly. Some books are imported from
Portugal, while others have been developed within the Ministry of Education
(MOE) and published using the expertise of Portuguese publishers under a



-5-
grant, from The Netherlands Organization for International Cooperation in
Development (NOVIB). Existing books are over-designed, lavishly
illustrated and printed either in two colors or partly in two and partly in
four colors. Books have more content than would be expected for the grade
levels, but provide inadequate guidance for students to progress through
the lessons. Limited publishing competition and low volume printing runs
keep prices high. The MOE Planning Unit, which carries out the design,
preparation and production of textbooks, lacks the expertise for effective
cost control and for matching book designs to the intended market's
purchasing power. Staff responsible for these tasks are largely
inexperienced in textbook production and wvuld benefit from impartial
technical advice, since they now depend primarily on pre-selected
publishers for guidance on production and printing standards. Annex 7
shows the costs and specifications of existing textbooks.
2.14     Procedures for distribution of textbooks and teaching materials
are inefficient and uneconomical. Textbooks are distributed by the
Federation of School Canteens (FCCS), a parastatal managing the school
meals program. FCCS marks up book acquisition costs by 40% to cover costs
of handling, distribution and administration, and then distributes the
books to 21 sales outlets throughout the islands. Book delivery schedules
are irregular, and the books are not shipped in packages that economize
delivery costs.  Inadequate means of trartsportation within the islands, the
dispersed location of schools and the weak administration of the
distribution system also result in cumbersome procedures for textbook
purchases. Unable to afford travel to the main sales outlets, students
place book orders with teachers who purchase from FCCS when possible.
Students from the poorest ramilies, who qualify to receive textbook
subsidies under the book loan scheme managed by the Cape Verdean Institute
of Student Welfare (ICASE), obtain books through district inspectors upon
receipt of ICASE's subsidy.
2.15     A revolving fund to finance reprinting of locally-published
NOVIBfinanced books officially exists and receives proceeds from book
sales. However, these proceeds are also spent on local island delivery and
handling costs and on purchases of consumable school materials. Although
60% of total book supplies are available for sale to parents, only about
102 of primary students purchase books, due to high prices. Revenues from
book sales are therefore never adequate to fully replenish book supplies.
The remaining 40% of book supplies is set aside for ICASE to allocate on
loan to students from the poorest families. ICASE has received 20% of all
locally-published NOVIBfunded books free of charge and buys other books and
consumable materials from FCCS out of a small annual budget. However, the
policies and management of the textbook loan scheme appear flawed. Since
the scheme began in 1981, the proportion of students eligible to receive
books from ICASE has risen from 10% to 40%, although eligibility criteria
have not been clarified. In addition, ICASE is inadequately staffed and
organized to ensure and monitor timely distribution and retrieval of
subsidized books.
2.16     Consumable school materials (e.g., notelooks, paper, pencils),
whether sold directly by the few private stationery dealers, or procured
and imported by the MOE through these same commercial dealers and sold at
cost to students in textbook sales outlets, are generally too elaborate for



- 6 -
school use, and thus uneconomical and too costly for most students. As a
result, many students go through the school year with inadequate school
materials to record lessons or perform written exercises. The resulting
low market demand gives little incentive to commercial houses to provide
less expensive school supplies. Simpler specifications are needed for
school materials which could be placed within the means of the more
disadvantaged students. The increased demand could be expected to
stimulate the market competition to provide inexpensive and appropriate
consumable school materials.
2. Management and Planning
2.17     The situation described above is further aggravated by the weak
planning and management of education, which is adversely affected by a
deficient institutional framework, as well as inadequate staff, equipment
and supplies. In the absence of an Organic Law est-blishing the structure
and procedures of the MOE, management practices have developed in an ad hoc
manner. Procedures are unclear and are not systematically related to the
implementation of policies and programs (see Annex 8 for the current
organigram of the MOE).
2.18 Within the MOE, the lack of coordination among unit heads and the
misallocation of responsibilities among the various units are sources of
further confusion and delay. For example, the Planning Unit prepares
curriculum and textbooks, while district inspectors carry out school
administration, spending 60% of their time on the school feeding program.
In 1986, the Planning Unit, instead of the Director-General of Education,
was also responsible for first cycle teacher training. Consequently, the
recruitment of students for the course and the training program were issues
of conflict. Finally, the semi-autonomous institutes responsible for
procurement and distribution of textbooks cnd teaching materials to
students are an unnecessary multiplication of institutions, which has
increased administrative costs and complicated the relationship between the
MOE and these institutes in policy implementation. They are also poorly
equipped and inefficient, leading to high prices for these materials (para.
2.10).
2.19 Quality of management is negatively affected by the shortage of
appropriately qualified personnel in the MOE. In 1986, only 8% of the
MOE's professional and managerial staff had skills in the relevant subject
areas, although about 60% had some university education. None, however,
had qualifications in educational administration, and the remaining 40%
were trained only in basic education teaching. Consequently, staff are
generally unable to cope with the complex educational development issues in
Cape Verde. Staff performance is also adversely affected by low office
technology support; for example, the Ministry does not have a photocopier,
and the few existing calculators, typewriters and supplies are shared among
many staff.
3. Financial Constraints
2.20     The provision of quality first cycle basic education in Cape Verde
is hampered by low and declining expenditures on the education sector in
general, as well as on basic education. While the share of the Government



budget as a percent of GNP increased slightly over the period 1982-86, the
MOE's share of the Government budget fell from about 17.8% to 15%.
Similarly, the share of six-year basic education in the MOE budget fell
from about 71.4% in 1982 to about 65.1% in 1986, while the shares for
secondary education and adult education increased significantly, from 9% to
12% and 0.5% to 3.6%, respectively. The proportion for administration
increased from 13.8% to 15%. Annex 9 analyzes the costs and financing of
education in Cape Verde.
2.21     Declining allocations to basic education are reflected in a low
and steady fall in expenditures per student, which has reduced the quality
of school inputs. In 1983, per student cost of first cycle education was
about tJS$38, representing 10% of GNP per capita, compared to US$74 or 19.5%
of GMP per capita for the second cycle. Measured in 1983 constant prices,
expenditures per student for the combined grades 1-6 cycle declined
annually by about 12% between 1982 and 1986 (from US$54 to US$32). As a
percentage of GNP per capita, the decline was from 11.8% to 10%. (This
decline in expenditures was corrected in the 1986 revised budget, which
increased per pupil expenditure for both cycles from US$32 to US$42,
increasing expenditures per student expressed in terms of percentage of GNP
per capita from 10% to 13%.) Low and declining expenditures on basic
education have prevented the Government from providing quality school
inputs and, particularly, from training and hiring adequately qualified
teaching staff or improving school inspectorate support. Annex 10 contains
the unit costs of basic education from 1982-1986.
2.22     Within the basic education budget, the share of teacher salaries
fell from 81% to 76% between 1982 and 1986, further eroding the already low
level of average teacher salaries and teacher quality. In 1983, average
teacher salaries in Cape Verde represented 2.3 times GNP per capita,
compared to 4 times GNP per capita in countries in the region with similar
GNP per capita; and within Cape Verde, teachers earn much less than workers
in comparable occupations.
C. The Government's Strategy
2.23     In its Second Five-year National Development Plan, approved in
December 1986, the Government proposes to concentrate a improving the
quality and efficiency of basic education and sector management, in order
to increase the number of basic education graduates and lay the foundation
for the development of further levels of education. Once the reform of
basic education has been launched, Government efforts would be directed at
improving the quality, efficiency and relevance of secondary general and
technical education, which would be developed to meet short-term and
medium-term manpower needs.
2.24     T1ie Government has already taken steps to improve basic education
by upgrading the salary scales of teachers as from 1987, and through a
request to the Gulbenkian Foundation for assistance in developing a new
curriculum for basic education. These efforts would be incorporated and
enlarged under the proposed IDA project through; integration of the two
cycles of basic education; improvement of teacher quality; increased
availability of textbooks and school materials; improved management



- 8 -
practices; and establishment of additional salary incentives which would
permit the Government to recruit and retain qualified teachers. In
addition, recurrent budgetary targets for the different levels of education
would be established to promote more efficient resource use.
2.25     Development of secondary general education, technical education,
and vocational training would be designed to match the demands of the labor
market, uncertainties of emigration and budgetary constraints. These
issues were addressed in a recently completed sector study, which formed
the basis for an upcoming African Development Bank (AfDB) project,
identified in July 1987. This project, which is expected to be appraised
in November 1987, would provide: (a) required classrooms for the
countrywide implementation of the basic education reform for which the
proposed IDA project would develop the curriculum, uraini teachers, and
provide textbooks and teaching materials; and (b) immediate needs for the
expansion and quality improvement of secondary education to complement the
reforms initiated at the basic education level. In order to lay the
foundation for further development of education in Cape Verde, the
Government would prepare a study on the costs and financing of education as
a part of the proposed IDA project. The objectives of the study would be
to analyze the implications of basic education reform and to examine
alternative designs and cost implications of the development of secondary
general education, technical education and vocational training. This
study, along with the conclusions of the recently completed AfDB-financed
sector study, would form the basis for a medium-term investment program for
educational development in Cape Verde.
D. Bank Group Involvement
2.26     In recent years, at the Government's request, IDA has played an
increasing role in helping the countcy to prepare and implement long-term
plans for its economic development, with particular focus on: (a)
improving resource allocation through sectoral policy reform especially in
the water, transportation, education and health sectors; and (b)
establishing adequate mechanisms for aid coordination. During the 1985-87
period, IDA assisted the Government in finalizing its Second National
Development Plan and in organizing a Round Table Conference, in December
1986, to discuss the policies, costs and financing of the Plan's proposals.
Two projects are currently being financed: the Praia Port Project (US$7.2
million, IDA Credit 1322-CV of March 1983), which is cofinanced by the Arab
Bank for Economic Development in Africa, the Organization for Petroleum
Exporting Countries Fund (OPEC Fund), Norway and Portugal; and the
Industrial Finance and Promotion Project (US$4.0 million, IDA Credit 1579-
CV of March 1985), to which UNDP/UNIDO are providing technical assistance.
The proposed Primary Education Upgrading Project would be not only the
first education project, but also the first IDA-financed social sector
project in Cape Verde.
2.27     Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The education sector plays a
pivotal role in IDA's assistance strategy because of Cape Verde's limited
natural resource base. The sectoral strategy is focused on upgrading the
educational and skill levels of the labor force to increase their
contribution to growth in the service industry and to improve their mastery



- 9 -
of the technologies needed to exploit the country's agricultural and water
resources. The proposed project would be a first step in implementing this
strategy. Through appropriate policy and financial measures and a sound
investment program, it would create the necessary conditions to: (i)
improve the quality of basic education; (ii) establish an appropriate
institutional framework for the efficient management of the education
system; and (iii) encourage a balanced development of higher levels of
education and training. To date, the development of the education system
in Cape Verde has been piecemeal, with limited and selective intervention
by donor agencies. By contrast, the proposed education project has been
designed with the collaboration of other donors and has served as a vehicle
to help the Government set up procedures for the coordination of education
sectoral development policies and investment programs among donors.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
3.1      In support of the Government's educational reform strategy, the
overall objective of the project is to provide the policy and institutional
framework, together with the necessary educational inputs for establishing
nationally, an integrated six-year basic education system, as well as
improving education sector management. Specifically, the prcject would:
(a) prepare, implement, and evaluate the six-year integrated system in the
Munic{pality of Santa Cruz; (b) upgrade the quality of primary school
teachers; (c) increase the availability of textbooks, teaching materials
and school supplies; and (d) improve education sector management.
1. Restructuring of the Basic Education System
3.2      The curriculum objectives of the new EBI system would be to
provide the basic skills of literacy and numeracy and to create an
awareness of the social and physical environment. The core subjects would
be Portuguese, taught as a second language to Creole, mathematics.
environmental studies and science. The curriculum would be prepared by
subject panels made up of local specialists drawn from current MOE staff
and teachers, supported by short-term consultants provided by the
Gulbenkian Foundation. Teachers would be trained to teach the core
subjects in all six grades of the new system, using multiple-grade teaching
methods, thereby allowing the establishment of complete basic education
cycles in the smaller villages which make up most of Cape Verde. Annex 11
shows the proposed structure of the integrated basic education system.
3.3      Responsibility for preparing and administering school examinations
would be shared by the Inspectorate-General of the MOE and the Evaluation
Unit in the proposed Institute of Education (para. 3.21) and Annex 12, to
be established within the MOE under the project. Standardized test3
designed to measure student achievement, as well as to monitor and evaluate
the efficiency of the system, would be prepared by the Evaluation Unit and
administered with the assistance of the inspectors. The Evaluation Unit
and the Inspectorate-General would be responsible for preparing tests and
establishing national standards and norms. The tests would be designed as
measures of student achievement and as diagnostic tools. They would also



- 10 -
take into account differences between subjects and regions. The curreat
strict examination policies would be replaced by automatic student
promotion in grades 1, 3 and 5, and by a gradual reduction, to half of the
current levels, of repetition rates in grades 2, 4 and 6. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the system of automatic
promotion, starting in grade 1 in 1992, and followed by grades 3 and 5 in
1994 and 1996, respectively, would be approved by January 31, 1988, and
implemented according to the agreed calendar.
3.4      The combined effects of the integration of both systems of basic
education and improved examination and promotion policies would
substantially increase the internal efficiency of the system. Pupil years
per graduate of the six-year cycle would fall from 41 to about 14, and the
proportion of graduates of this cycle in each cohort would increase from
15% to 37%. If, as expected, the improved quality and efficiency of basic
education were to reduce dropout rates by half, pupil years per graduate
would be further reduced from 14 to 9 and the percentage of graduates
increased from 37% to 63%.
3.5      In order to determine the suitability of the curriculum, and to
assess the likely impact of the new measures regarding examinations,
promotions and multiple-grade teaching methods on the education system
prior to their countrywide implementation, these measures would be
implemented and evaluated first in the Municipality of Santa Cruz, one of
Cape Verde's 14 municipalities. In 1986, Santa Cruz had 34 first cycle
schools ranging in sizes from one to eight classrooms, about 3,500 pupils
(7% of total enrollment), 120 teachers, and the number of children in
school was 120% of the relevant age group (gross enrollment ratio). The
district's location near Praia would permit adequate and cost-effective
supervision. A baseline study on the main socio-economic and education
parameters of Santa Cruz would be conducted in 1988, prior to the
evaluation of materials and policies scheduled to start in 1989.
3.6      The curriculum, textbooks and teacher guides to be developed under
the textbook component of the project would be introduced in Santa Cruz
starting with grades i and 3 in 1989, grades 2 and 4 in 1990, and grades 5
and 6 in 1991. The evaluation would focus on the suitability of curriculum
content and on the effects of the maaterials on student achievement. Along
with the introduction of the new curriculum in Santa Cruz, new measures for
examinations would be introduced first in grade 2 in 1992, followed by
grades 4 and 6 in subsequent years for the same cohort of students.
Automatic promotion would be gradually introduced in Santa Cruz in grades
1, 3 and 5 in 1991, 1993, and 1995, respectively.   Teachers in Santa Cruz
would receive special training to prepare them for the new materials and
curriculum, and the local inspectorate would be strengthened to provide
support to the teachers in the early stages and to participate in the
evaluation. Progress in the Santa Cruz implementation would be monitored
and evaluated continuously to determine the effects of the reform and the
need to revise the strategy. An annual review in which IDA would
participate would be held to monitor the implementation of the measures
taken in Santa Cruz. The project would also provide the necessary
educational inputs for subsequent countrywide implementation of the reform
through preparation of the new curriculum, establishment of appropriate



- 11 -
teacher training courses, provision of textbooks, as well as strengthening
educational management. The required classrooms would be provided under an
AfDB-financed project (para. 2.25). The Government is coordinating the
efforts of AfDB and IDA to ensure complementarity between the two jeojects.
Countrywide implementation of the reform would overlap with the
implementation in Santa Cruz and would start in grades 1 and 3 in 1991,
followed by grades 2 and 4, and 5 and 6 in 1992 and 1993, respectively,
after the results of the implementation in Santa Cruz have been obtained
and the programs revised accordingly for each of the grades. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the calendars for
implementation of (i) the reform in Santa Cruz and countrywide and (ii)
automatic promotions and examinations in Santa Cruz, discussed during
appraisal and mentioned in this paragraph would be adhered to.
3.7      The project would finance furniture, equipment and materials;
training of curriculum development staff; training of the Santa Cruz
teachers in the new education programs; 11 staff months of foreign
specialist services for curriculum development, evaluation and educational
measurement and testing; the services of local specialists for curriculum
development (168 staff months) and manuscript writing (288 staff months);
the costs of administering the Santa Cruz first phase implementation; and
the salaries of temporary curriculum staff of the Institute of Education
(US$0.38 million base cost). Annex 13 describes the details of the first
phase implementation of the reform in Santa Cruz.
2. Upgrading the Quality of Primaary School Teachers
3.8      To address the problem of the poor quality of primary school
teachers, the project would increase the availability of qualified teachers
by: (a) establishing an in-service teacher training program; (b) improving
the quality and output of pre-service training programs; and (c)
introducing salary incentives to increase the recruitment and retention of
qualified primary school teachers.
3.9      In-service Teacher Training.  The objective of the in-service
teacher training course would be to upgrade the basic education and
pedagogical skills of about 1,200 serving teachers (1,000 first cycle and
200 second cycle) to teach in the new EBI system. The first three years of
the four-year training program, which would start in January 1989, would be
designed for about 1,000 first-cycle teachers, currently with no more than
a sixth grade educa ion, to equip them to teach in at least the first four
grades of the new six-year system. The fourth year would be used to train
teachers who were successful in the first phase, as well as teachers
already qualified under the existing system, to teach through grades five
and six in the new system. The program would be presented in modules and
would include: (a) the core subjects of the new EBI system - Portuguese,
mathematics, environmental studies and science; (b) pedagogical methods,
including multiple-grade teaching; and (c) school organization. Training
would be provided by means of self-instructional modules within the current
first cycle inspectora-e structure, radio lessons provided by the
broadcasting unit, and bi-weekly weekend study group sessions for
discussion and feedback.



- 12 -
3.10     The in-service teacher training program would be coordinated at
the central level by a core of trainers drawn from teaching itaff to be
appointed by the Institute of Education, who would be responsible for
materials preparation and distribution, supervising the program and
evaluating students. One member of this group of trainers would become the
in-service coordinator in the new Institute of Education. The trainers at
the central level would be assisted in the districts by in-service teacher
training coordinators, and teacher in-service group leaders, who would lead
the study groups in the 72 pedagogical zones during the bi-weekly study
sessions. District level staff would be responsible for distributing
training materials, generating discussion and clarifying difficult points,
and student evaluation. Based on the results of the annual teacher
evaluation tests given in 1986, when only about 43% of teachers passed the
sixth-grade level examinations, it is expected that about 70% of the
teachers would successfully complete the course in the four-year period.
Teachers who do not complete the course in the first four years would
continue training and would receive the appropriate benefits upon
successful completion of the course. Teachers who do not successfully
complete the first three years would not be guaranteed employment. Annex
14 describes the in-service teacher training program for teachers to be
upgraded under the project. The project would finance; (a) the
procurement of vehicles, office equipment and materials for the in-service
training program; (b) six staff months of specialist services and two staff
months of fellowships in distance learning techniques; and (c) incremental
operating costs of the in-service training program (US$0.95 million base
cost -- Annex 14, page 5).
3.11     Pre-service Teacher Training.  The objective of the pre-service
training program would be to provide an adequate supply of qualified
teachers to meet the annual new teacher requirements for increased
enrollment, and to provide for attrition. Initially, two training
programs, designed to train teachers to teach in all six grades of the new
EBI system, would be carried out. The first, a two-year course for ninth
grade graduates, would aim at strengthening the academic preparation of
student teachers in the core subjects of the new EBI system and providing
training in appropriate pedagogical methods; while the second, a one-year
program for eleventh grade graduates, would focus primarily on pedagogical
training. Both programs :ould start in 1991 and would emphasize the use of
multiple-grade teaching methods, as well as the techniques of organizing
the shift system. Annual output is estimated at 120 teachers per year,
made up of about 90 from the two-year course for 180 ninth grade graduates
and 30 from the one-year course for 30 eleventh grade graduates. This
output of 120 teachers per year is based on medium-term teacher needs,
allowing for an increase in the current enrollment ratio of the six-year
system to about 110%, a pupil/teacher ratio of 36:1 and an annual attrition
rate of 3%. Long-term teacher needs would be met by increasing the number
of students enrolled in the one-year training program, which would increase
output while reducing per graduate costs. The programs would be run at the
non-residential Institute of Education, to be established under the
project, with an enrollment capacity of 210 student-teachers. The Institute
would also be responsible for curriculum and teaching materials
development, and for student evaluation. Annex 15 contains the pre-service
training programs, teacher requirements and unit costs of teacher training.
The project would finance: (a) the construction, furnishing and equipping



- 13 -
of a new Institute of Education building; (b) 40 months of fellowships for
future institute staff in teacher training techniques, evaluation and
development of student tests; (c) the incremental recurrent costs of
running the Institute; and (d) fellowships for student teachers (US$0.9
million base cost (Annex 15, page 6).
3.12     Recruitment and Retention of Qualified Teachers.  In order to
increase the Goverrment's ability to recruit and retain qualified teachers,
the salaries of teachers would be upgraded and the progression of teachers
up the salary scale would be adjusted. Untrained first-cycle basic
education teachers who successfully complete the first phase of the in-
service teacher training program would be placed on a higher scale, similar
to that of present qualified first-cycle teachers. A new salary scale
would be created for teachers who successfully complete the fourth year of
the in-service teacher training course and the new EBI pre-service teacher
training courses.
3.13     To revise the progression of teachers through the salary scale,
the time between steps would be adjusted from ten years between the first
and second steps, and five years each between both the second and third,
and the third and fourth, to five years between the first and second, ten
years between the second and third, and five years between the third and
fourth. These measures would raise average teacher salaries by about 25%
by 1991. The salary scales for the upgraded teachers would also be applied
to teachers who complete the course after 1992, when the teachers are
expected to graduate from the first course. Annex 14, page 4, describes
the new salary scales to be established for teachers. The credit would
finance the salary increases of about 700 teachers to be upgraded under the
project.
3.14     During negotiations, the Government agreed that as a condition of
effectiveness, the Institute of Education would be legally established.
3.15     During negotiations, the Government gave assurance that it would
prepare and furnish to IDA for review and comment not later tuian January
31, 1988, (i) in-service and pre-service training programs for primary
school teachers, and (ii) draft regulations governing certification and
salary status for teachers having successfully completed these training
programs; approve these programs and regulations by June 30, 1988, and
implement them by January 31, 1989.
3. Increasing the Availability of Textbooks, School Supplies and
Teaching Materials
3.16     Textbooks.  To improve the supply of basic education textbooks,
the project would: (a) support the publishing of more appropriately
designed textbooks; (b) strengthen the textbook preparation unit; and (c)
utilize a more efficient disttibution network and create a new Textbook
Revolving Fund (TRF). The project would develop and publish 21 new books
and six revised editions in titles covering the Portuguese language,
mathematics, integrated science, technical arts and environmental studies.
These editions would comprise about 430,000 pupil books and 9,100 copies of
the corresponding teacher guides. Books would be distributed one per
student per title to allow adequate access to books outside of school by
pupils, thus compensating for the reduced hours spent in school as a result
of the shift system (see para. 2.12). The responsibility for the



- 14 -
preparation of textbook manuscripts would be transferred from the Planning
Unit to a new textbook unit within the proposed Instituts of Education.
The cost of books would be minimized and made more affordable to students
bys (a) using more economical standards of textbook production (e.g.,
books designed to ast three years, use of fewer colors, standardized
dimensions and number of pages); (b) initially printing a three-year
quantity of textbooks rather than one year; (c) issuing fully-revised
editions after six years to spread out editorial costs over a longer
period; and (d) utilizing the services of an existing and more efficient
distribution network. A TRF would be established out of the sales of
textbooks to finance the replenishment of textbook stocks. In addition,
the development of a second-hand book market would be stimulated by
encouraging school directors to set up a system for collecting used books
at the end of the school year and selling or trading them at the start of
the new term. The Directorate General of Administration would be
responsible for textbook procurement, management of textbooks sales, the
operation of the TRF and the supervision of textbook distribution
arrangements. Annex 16 describes the details of the textbook component,
specifications and costs of new textbooks, as well as the operation of the
TRF. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that a cost
recovery system for textbooks satisfactory to IDA, including the
establishment of the TRF would be implemented by August 1991.
3.17     School Supplies and Teaching Materials.  To increase the
availability of school supplies to students, the project would finance the
procurement of more appropriate and less expensive basic school materials
(e.g., notebooks, pencils, ballpoint pens and erasers) to be distributed in
the same manner as textbooks and sold at cost to students. Sales proceeds
would be deposited into a separately established School Supplies Revolving
Fund managed similarly to the TRF and used to replenish stocks of school
supplies. The list of the initial supply of school supplies to be procured
is shown in Annex 16s page 10.
3.18     The project would finance:  (a) the printing and distribution of
about 440,000 new and revised primary textbooks and teacher guides; (b)
school supplies; (c) furniture, vehicles and equipment for the operations
of the textbook unit; (d) training of publishing staff, textbook manuscript
writers and primary teachers in the use of the new textbooks; (e) 11 staff
months of specialists services for writing and editorial work, book
tendering and bid evaluation, textbook pricing, and revolving fund design
and operation; (f) 368 equivalent staff months of textbook authorship
(local writers); and (g) the incremental operating costs of the textbook
unit of the Institute of Education (US$1.06 million base cost -- Annex 16,
page 11). As direct assistance to the Government, the Gulbenkian
Foundation is expected to finance the training of textbook writers and the
services (two staff months) of the textbook writing seminar leaders.
4. Improving Education Sector Management
3.19     Administrative Reform. In order to improve education management,
the project would: (a) establish a new administrative structure and
relevant institutional units at the MOE; (b) introduce new procedures for
preparing, monitoring and evaluating work programs of the various
departments of the MOE; and (c) implement a staff training program. Annex
17 shows the proposed structure of the MOE.



- 15 -
3.20     In the new structure, the Minister would be assisted in policy
formulation by a National Council of Education comprising representatives
of parent and other key community organizations and institutions, as well
as the Inspector-General of Education (IG) and the Director-General of
Education (DGE). This Council wo,uld focus on educational reform, sector
development policies and educational resource mobilization. In addition,
the existing Consultative Council within the MOE would be reconstituted to
include directors of the different units.
3.21     In order to allow the Minister to concentrate on policy and
overall development issues, more authority would be delegated to the
department directors, and responsibilities for administration, finance and
personnel would be assigned to a new Department of Administration. The
Planning Unit would be relieved of its current responsibilities in
curriculum and textbook development (para. 2.13) to concentrate on
essential planning tasks; collecting, updating and analyzing educational
data for policy formulation; as well as program planning, and designing and
costing sector investment programs. The Inspector-General would be
relieved of the responsibility of running schools in the municipalities to
concentrate on quality control of teaching and administration of schools,
and to participate in introducing educational innovations. Local school
delegations would therefore be transferred from the Inspector-General to
the DGE, who would have the overall responsibility for school
administration; however, the local school delegations would continue to
perform essential functions of the other MOE departments in the
municipalities, including school inspection. In order to ensure efficient
use of scarce human and material resources, consistency between curriculum
and materials development and teacher training objectives, these activities
would be carried out under the same organizational structure, the Institute
of Education, to be established under the project as an effectiveness
condition. The functions of the Institute, located in Praia, would be to:
(a) contribute to policy formulation in teacher training, curriculum and
teaching materials development and evaluation; (b) develop and run pre-
service training programs (for about 210 non-residential students) and in-
service teacher training programs to upgrade teacher skills, and introduce
new materials; (c) plan and develop/revise the primary school curriculum;
(d) organize and coordinate the preparation of textbooks, teacher guides,
and teaching materials, including instructional aids and radio programs;
(e) develop and monitor the use of tests for primary school pupils; and (f)
develop a capacity for monitoring and evaluating the education process and
education innovation. The Director-General of Education would have overall
responsibility for the proposed Institute of Education. ICASE would be
reviewed and restructured to increase efficiency, while the Division of
School Furniture and Equipment (DEME) of the current Secretary-General's
office would be disbanded and its functions carried out by the new DGE.
3.22     To ensure that units focus on priority objectives, and in order to
maintain quality control and timely completion of tasks, each institutional
unit of the MOE would prepare an annual work program to be agreed and
monitored by the Ministry's Consultative Council. For the first year, the
work program for most units would focus on collecting and analyzing data
related to their responsibilities, establishing internal work procedures
and developing instruments for monitoring and evaluating work output. A
major part of the first-year work program of the Planning and Studies Unit
(GEP) would be the preparation of a study on costs and financing of



- 16 -
education, and low cost methods of school construction. Work programs for
future years and progress in implementing these programs would be included
in the annual and mid-term reviews to be undertaken by the Government and
IDA (para. 3.46).
3.23     Staffing proposals for the MOE were developed to reflect the
expected work load of the various units of MOE, while controlling the
growth of the administrative budget. The result is a projected 10%
increase in the MOE administrative budget over the project period,
significantly less than the 33% increase which had been expected. In
addition, the skill mix of staff would be altered in favor of the
managerial and professional levels. The number of higher level staff would
increase from 47 to 65, while the number of support staff would fall from
174 to 145. The overall number of MOE staff would fall from 221 to 210. A
staff training program to be financed under the project would help identify
and train both higher and support level staff to fill newly created
positions in the new structure; support staff no longer needed would be
withdrawn by the Civil Service Ministry, retrained in the Irstitute of
Administration under the Government's staff retraining program and
redeployed to other Government agencies.
3.24     Responsibility for effecting the transition from the old system to
the new administrative structure under the new Organic Law would be
assigned to the Director-General of Administration (DGA) assisted by the IG
and the Adviser to the Minister. Together, they would be responsible for
relocating staff according to responsibilities and profiles, allocating
physical facilities and budget resources, and identifying staff for
training. This committee would remain in existence for six months, after
which time the Consultative Council of the MOE would gradually take over
and finalize the transition to the new system, expected to be completed in
12 months. A Condition of Effectiveness would be that, for the purposes of
administrative reform, the Organic Law establishing the new organic
structure, the functions of the institutional units, and the staffing
profile of the MOE would be passed.
3.25     The project would finance:  (a) equipmen  for the MOE; (b) 35
staff months of short-term specialist services f< an education economist;
general and technical educators; education planner; and specialists in
institutional development, inspectorate and teacher support, project
management and financial auditing; (c) 103 staff months of fellowships
abroad for MOE staff in the areas of education management, planning,
finance and quality control; (d) 10 staff months of specialist services for
personnel management, administrative audit and school facilities
management; (e) studies on the cost and financing of education and low-cost
methods of school construction; (f) the preparation of future projectn in
education and training: and (g) the costs of project administration.
(US$0.84 million base cost -- Annex 18.)
3.26     Budgetary and Efficiency Measures.  Improved budgetary practices
would be introduced to link expenditures more directly to educational
development priorities i.e. basic education and quality improvements.
Budgetary realignment measures, aimed at providing adequate financing for
the proposed six-year basic education system and based on the combined
budgets of the current first and second cycles, would be undertaken.
Increased budgetary allocations would be made to: (a) finance an average



- 17 -
25% (cumulative) increase in total teacher salary expenditures in 1991 and
1992 as a result of incentives to teachers who have successfully completed
the in-service training course; and (b) increase the combined share of the
inspectorate and teaching materials in the basic education budget from 7%
in 1986 to 10% in 1991. These increased budgetary allocations would be
financed through: (i) raising the share of MOE in the Government recurrent
budget; (ii) internal reallocations within MOE's budget between levels of
education and types of expenditures; and (iii) introduction of efficiency
measures to achieve savings.
3.27     The MOE buidget as a percentage of the Government recurrent budget
would remain at 17.2% between 1987 and 1990, rise to the equivalent of
18.5% in 1991 partly to meet the costs of increased teacher salaries, and
then fall gradually to 18% in the year 2000. In order to reduce the impact
of the sharp increase in teacher salaries on Government resources, the IDA
credit would finance 80% of the initial salary increases of teachers who
complete each phase of the in-service training course. Annex 19 shows the
MOE budgetary projections up to the year 2000. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it would increase the MOE budget to the
equivalent of 18.5% of the Government recurrent budget in 1991, and
maintain that percentage in 1992 and 1993.
3.28     Within the MOE budget, the new basic education budget (for six
years of schooling) as a percentage of the MOE budget would rise gradually
from 69% in 1986 to 72% in 1991, and maintain that level until the year
2000. The Planning Unit and primary teacher training (excluding
fellowships) would both also increase their shares, while the relative
share of all other divisions of the MOE would fall. Student-teacher
fellowships, for example, would fall from 4% of the MOE budget in 1986 to
2.8% in 1992, in spite of the expected increased enrollment in primary
school teacher training from about 66 in 1985 to 210 in 1992, when the new
Institute of Education becomes fully operational. Reductions in the share
of fellowships are expected to be obtained from savings resulting from:
(a) the termination of the second cycle basic education teacher training
course, with the integration of the first and second cycles; (b)
elimination of the need to pay salaries to serving teachers enrolled in
pre-service courses when the in-service teacher training courses are
introduced; and (c) reduction in the proportion of student-teachers who
receive fellowships from 100% to 50% of total student-teacher enrollment.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would increase:
(i) the budgetary allocations for basic education to 72% of the MOE budget
in 1991, and (ii) the combined shares of the Inspectorate-General and
teaching materials to 10% of the basic education budget in 1991, and would
maintain these percentages in 1992 and 1993.
3.29     Improving the supply of school inputs would allow for an increase
in the pupil/teacher ratio. The increased availability of better quality
textbooks and adequately trained teachers would permit the utilization of
multiple-grade teaching methods, thereby introducing grades 5 and 6 in
smaller settlements. As a resuit, overall school enrollment would increase
in many more areas. These factors would permit larger class sizes, rs
teachers would be able to combine grades in areas where there are too few
pupils per grade to make up a full-size class. Pupil/teacher ratio would,
therefore, be increased gradually from 30t1 to 36:1, between 1988 and 1993.



- 18 -
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that by January 31,
1988, it would set annual targets for a pupil/teacher ratio and introduce
all the necessary measures to reach a pupil/teacher ratio of 36:1 by the
1993/94 school year.
3.30     In spite of the significant increases in basic education
expenditures, which would raise average teacher salaries by about 25% and
per pupil costs for the six-year basic education cycle by 17% in 1992 from
the 1990 levels, basic education expenditures in Cape Verde would remain
comparable to similar expenditures in regional countries with similar per
capita incomes. Based on a GNP annual growth rate of 2.6%, as occurred
during the 1982-85 period, and a population growth rate of 1.7% as
estimated in the Second National Development Plan, teacher salaries in 1992
would be four times the GNP per capita, and per student costs would be
about 15% of GNP per capita. Both levels of expenditure are similar to
those in countries with i -ilar GNP per capita in the region in 1983.
B. Prolect Costs and Financing Plan
3.31     The total project cost is estimated at US$5.3 million equivalent,
net of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component of US$2.6
million (49%). The project would be exempt from taxes and duties except on
imported construction materials on which customs duties estimated at
US$46,000 would be applied. Base cost estimates are calculated on April
1987 prices. The total contingencies of US$1.2 million represent 28% of
baseline costs (US$4.2 million). Physical contingencies of 10% have been
applied to expenditures on civil works, furniture, equipment, textbooks,
training, and operational costs and 5% on technical assistance. Price
contingencies (US$0.9 million) represent 21% of baseline costs plus
physical contingencies. Price contingencies are based on: (a) the
implementation schedule; (b) the following expected price increases:
foreign prices -- 1.0% in 1988-1990, and 3.5% in 1991-1993; local prices --
8% in 1988-1993; and (c) mission estimates of the foreign exchange content
of each category of expenditure; civil works and furniture, 60%; equipment,
textbooks, school materials and fellowships, 95%; foreign consultant
services and studies, 70%; local training, local consultant services and
operational costs, 15%; and staff salaries, 0%. A summary of total project
cost, by project component and by category of expenditure, is shown in
Annex 20. The project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 21.
3.32     Financing.  An IDA credit of US$4.2 million equivalent would be
provided towards financing 79% of the total cost of the project, or 92% of
the foreign exchange component and 68% of local costs, excluding taxes.
The Government would provide the remaining US$1.1 million equivalent to
finance 21% of project costs or the remaining foreign exchange and local
costs, including taxes. About US$0.3 million (27%) of the Government
counterpart financing is expected to be a grant from the Gulbenkian
Foundation, 59% of which would be applied to foreign exchange costs (Annex
22).
3.33     Recurrent Cost Im9lications.  The project would lead to increased
recurrent costs for the MOE on the order of US$1.57 million over the six-
year project implementation period. The major part (75%) of this total
incremental cost would be incurred in 1991 (US$0.49 million) and an 1992
(US$0.69 million), as a result of the two-stage increase in the salaries of



- 19 -
teachers who complete the in-service teacher training program (para. 3.11).
IDA would finance 80% of the salary increases of upgraded teachers under
the project (para. 3.31). Sufficient resources are expected to be
generated by the separate revolving funds established for books and school
supply to cover the reprinting of textbooks and replenishments of school
supply stocks (paras. 3.18 and 3.19).
3.34     The above incremental recurrent costs would lead to a rise in the
MOE budget to the equivalent of 18.5% of the total Government budget in
1991 and 1992, assuming a 3% annual growth rate in the Government budget.
This increase over the 17.2% level prevailing during the period 1986-1990
(para. 3.31) is nct expected to cause undue difficulty, since the the
Government has designated education as a top priority for development and
has programmed a 6.5% growth in the education budget over the next five
years (compared to 4.2% mission estimates for the project). In addition,
the MOE share of the Government budget would fall gLadually during the
period 1993-2000 to 18%, a reasonable level for similar countries in the
region.
C. Proiect Implementation
1. Project Readiness, Manazement and Institution Building
3.35     Project Readiness.  Implementation of the project would be
completed within six years, by December 31, 1993, as shown in the project
implementation schedule (Annex 21). Project preparation has been
substantially completed. Intermediary targets toward the budgetary,
educational and institutional objectives have been tentatively agreed. The
draft Organic Law for the Ministry of Education has been reviewed with IDA
to ensure that earlier comments have been taken in account. Schools and
institutions to participate in the testing of new educational materials and
policies in Santa Cruz have been surveyed; terms of reference for technical
assistance to prepare training programs and the draft envisaged basic
education curriculum reform have been defined; furniture and equipment
lists are complete; bidding procedures have been agreed with the
Government. The legal title formally attributing ownership of the
Institute of Education building site to the MOE has been issued. A
condition of disbursement of funds for civil works would be that IDA would
have approved the architectural plans, as well as specifications for
building and equipping the Institute of Education.
3.36     Project Management.  Project implementation would be carried out
by the appropriate institutional units of the MOE to ensure that the
necessary skills and experience are acquired by these units for future
development of the education system. Implementation of the administrative
reforms of the MOE, due to their sensitive nature and the need to complete
the reform in a timely manner, will be carried out by the DGA, assisted by
the IG and the Adviser to the Minister. The educational reform, including
teacher training and textbook provision, would be carried out under the
overall direction of the Director-General of Planning (DGP) who, as Project
Director, would be assisted by a Deputy and would report directly to the
Minister of Education. To ensure adequate coordination of project
activities, a Project Advisory Committee (PAC), comprising the DGP as
chairman, the Director General of Public Works (DGPW), the DGE, the
Inspector-General (IG), the Deputy Project Director (DPD) and the DGA would



- 20 -
meet on a quarterly basis to review progress and plan future project
activities. The DPD would be directly responsible for the implementation
of the education reform, and teacher training and textbook components; and
the DGA would provide administrative support to the DGP for physical
implementation, project financing and disbursements. An organization chart
and description of the implementation management arrangements under the
project are showm in Annex 17, page 4.  A Condition of Effectiveness would
be that the Government would have appointed the Project Director, Deputy
Project Director, and Accountant, all with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that these key personnel would be maintained in their posts throughout the
execution of the Project.
3.37     Institution Building.  The project would provide about 64 staff
months of expatriate specialist services and 162 staff months of overseas
fellowships. In addition, the project would finance about 818 staff months
of local specialist services for curriculum preparation, textbook
manuscript development and authorship. About 1,200 teachers and school
supervisors would undergo in-service training to upgrade pedagogical skills
and train in the use of the new curriculum and textbooks. To avoid losing
an entire school year (which begins in October) in starting implementation
of the education reform curriculum in Santa Cruz, the training of MOE
curriculum staff started in October 1987 (see Annex 21 - Implementation
Schedule). In this regard, the Gulbenkian Foundation is financing the
foreign exchange component of the technical assistance and training
required as direct assistance to the Government. The terms of reference
for the technical assistance requirements of the project, as well as
selection criteria for specialists and fellowship candidates, were reviewed
at appraisal. Details of the technical assistance and training needs are
shown in Annex 23. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that all
MOE recipients of project-financed fellowships abroad would remain in their
assignments for at least three years after completion of their training.



2.   Procurement                          - 21 -
338.      The procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
Amount and Methods of Procurement
(US$000 - Figure, in parentheses indicato amount of IDA financing)
Procurement Method                  Total
Catoeory                                    ICB      LCB          Other       N/A         Costs
1. Civil Works and Professional Fees                 624  a/       63 k/                   577
(446)        (45)                    (490)
2. Furniture, equipment, school
materials and office supplies           273  c/    64  J       117 _/                   464
(288)      (62)       (117)                    (447)
3. Textbook publishing and printing                               882  f/                  882
(882)                   (882)
4. Specialist services, fellowships
and project preparation                                      1,964  g/                1,664
(1,346)                 (1,345)
S. Operating costs                                                323  h/     308  i/      630
(163)         (0)       (183)
S. Salary increase of upgraded
primary teachers                                                         1,111        1,111
(889)       (88e)
Total                              273       588        3,039       1,417       6,317
(268)     (507)     (2,652)        (889)     (4,200)
o/  Civil works for the Institute of Education would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA, since It Is unlikely that contractors not already working in the
country would bid because of the small size of th- contract and an adequate number of qualified local
contractors.
k/ The design and construction supervision contract of the Institute of Education would be awarded to
a short-listOd architectural/engineering firm following the Guidelines for the Employment and Use of
Consultants by the World Bank and Its Borrowers.
S/ Equipment (US$273,000) would be procured through International CompeOtitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures according to IDA guidelines (qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference
In bid evaluation of 16% of CIF price, or tho 1mport duties and taxes, whichever Is lower).
a; Furniture would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
e/ School materials (see list in Annex 18-US360,000) would be purchased from UNIPAC through UNICEF as
this has been found to be the most economical and reliable means of obtaining good quality educational
materials in Cape Verde. Other school/office materials and supplies (US$57,000) would be procured
through shopping procedures (3 price bids) for expenses of less than USS20,000 (US180,000 aggregate).
t/ Interested textbook publishors/printers would be invited Internationally to prequalify. Propo-
*als would be sought from the shortlisted firms. Evaluation and comparison of bids would be
undertaken in accordance with IDA guidelines.
g/ Specialist services for curriculum development/evaluatlon/design and textbook writing seminars
(US8319,000) financed by the Culbenkian Foundation, would be procured in accordance with th.
Foundation's procedures. Other specialist services and fellowships (US$1,345,000) would be
procured In occordance with the Cuidelines for the Employment and Use of Consultants by the World
Bank and its Borrowers.
h/ The contract for the distribution of school materials and textbooks (US$40,000) from the ports of
entry (Praia and Mindelo) to the district warehouses would be negotiated with EMPA, the public supply
agency, which renders the most economical and efficient local distribution services. Other operating
costs (utilities, travel, services, per diems, rental, etc.- US$283,000) would be procured through
regular Government procedures.
I/ Staff salaries (US$143,000) and local fellowships for student teachers (USS163,000) would be
entirely financed by the Government.



- 22 -
3.39      Bidding/Contract Review.  Announcements for bidding, bid documents
and proposed contract awards for procurement packages valued at or
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent, expected to represent 45% of the total
value of contracts (about 50 contracts) for goods and services, would be
subject to IDA's review prior to contract award. The remaining 55% of the
total value of contracts would be subject to random or post-award review by
IDA. Procurement procedures are further described in Annex 24.
3. Disbursement
3.40      Disbursements of the credit proceeds are shown in the table below.
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(in USS           X of Expenditures
Category                  equivalent)          to be Financed
1. Civil Works and Professlonol Fees    490,00a        86X
2. Furniture, Equipment, Materials,                     100X of Foreign Expenditures
Suppiea and Textbook.               1,200,000        100X of ex-Factory Cost of
locally manufactured goods
80% of Local Ewponditure of other
items procured locally
8. Consultant Servicos ineluding Audits  1,100,000      100%
and Fellowshipe
4 Studies and Project Preparation       120,000         10%
S. Operating Costs of MOE Evaluation,
Testing, Project Administration Costs,
and Costs of Distributing Textbooks,
and School Suppies                    110,000        100% of Foreign Expenditures
50% of Local Expenditures
8. Salary Increas, ot Upgraded
P imary Teachers                     040,000         80% of Salary Increases in
1991 and 1992
7. PPF                                  100,000         Amount duo
8. Unallocated                          440.000
Total Credit Amount              4,200,0a



- 23 -
3.41     The IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of 6.5 years
(between January 1, 1988, and June 30, 1994), less thsn the eight-year
regional sector profile. However, the period is deemed adequate because
the project does not have large civil works and equipment procurement
components; in addition, the textbook publishing schedule has been well
planned to minimize the bunching of textbook deliveries. The estimated
yearly expenditures and disbursements of the IDA credit are shown in Annex
25.
4.    Special Account
3.42     A Special Account of US$300,000 would be established in a
commercial bank and would be used to prefinance all IDA-eligible
expenditures. The amount is estimated to cover the average three months of
project expenditures. Replenishment of the Special Account will be made
monthly, or whenever the Special Account balance falls under US$200,000,
whichever occurs first. Applications would be fully documented except for
expenses related to in-country training, studies and fellowships,
incremental operating costs, incremental salaries of teachers, and works
and goods contracts valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent, which would
be reimbursed against certified statements of expenditure (SOEs).
Documentation for SOEs would be retained by the Project Director for review
by IDA and project auditors. Reimbursement applications would also include
a statement of account movements since the last application, with the
balance certified by the bank holding the account, and a reconciliation
showing that the balance represents the original amount less payments
awaiting reimbursement or small working advances. The Special Account
would be operated under terms and conditions accaptable to IDA, and should
any disbursements made subsequently be disallowed by IDA, the Government
would be responsible for reimbursing the Special Account for the
corresponding amount.
5.    Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.43     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:  (a)
the PAC would maintain separate accounts for the IDA credit and the
Government's counterpart financing. These accounts would be further
divided into expenditures incurred for each component; (b) all project
accounts ar.d all disbursements against SOEs would be audited annually by
an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; (c) the Government would submit
to IDA the audit reports on project accounts and on SOEs as soon as
possible but not later than six months after the end of each year; (d)
audit fees would be financed by the IDA credit; and (e) the Project
Director would submit semi-annual reports to IDA on project implementation
and expenditures, special reports on a need basis, and a final report on
implementation experience and project outcomes within six months of the IDA
credit Closing Date.  A Condition of Effectiveness would be that the
Government would have opened a separate account in a local bank for the
Government counterpart financing of the project and have made into that
account an initial deposit in the amount of US$75,000 equivalent.



- 24 -
3.44     Reviews, Monitoring and Reporting.  In view of the project's broad
educational and institutional objectives, in addition to normal
supervision, the project would include annual implementation reviews by
August 31 of each year, and a major mid-term review (February-March 1991)
by the Government and IDA in order to: (a) assess performance on the
implementation of the various project components; (b) provide an
opportunity to revise project goals, if necessary; and (c) prepare future
work programs. At the yearly reviews, Government would be represented by
the MOE, the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning, and the Office cf
the Secretary of State for Civil Service. These reviews would focus
particularly on evaluation reports of the reform implementation in Santa
Cruz, developments in the MOE budget, the MOE investment program, as well
as the work programs of the MOE institutional units. The DGP would
coordinate the preparation of periodic reports by the various MOE units on
each of their specific areas of responsibility related to the project, and
liaise between IDA and the Government. The reports of individual units
would be consolidated by GEP into semestral project implementation reports
submitted to IDA by the end of February and July of each year. The DGP
would also chair the annual and mid-term reviews of the project by the
Government and IDA, and would be responsible for the preparation of the
Borrower's Completion Report submitted to IDA within six months of the
Closing Date of the Credit Agreement. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that the annual implementation reviews of the project
would be held jointly with IDA by August 31 of each year (1988-1993), and
the mid-term review in February-March 1991, for the purposes described
above.
3.45     Justification and Benefits.  In the long term, the project would
improve the quality and efficiency of basic education and would increase
access to higher levels of education. The foundation laid by the project
would also help realize greater productivity in other sectors. Increased
literacy would eventually contribute to increased and sustained
agricultural productivity through better management of water resources and
soil conservation. In addition, fertility rates would be expected to
decline, health practices improved and the trainability of the labor force
increased. Restructuring basic education would reduce the rural-urban
imbalance by providing two additional years of quality education in the
smaller settlements. The project would also increase the efficietcy of the
education system by improving its management and increasing budgetary
allocations to the sector. By focusing on the establishment of a teacher
training capability; systems for preparation, procurement and distribution
of textbooks; and upgraded management, the project would provide the
institutional framework needed for continuous improvement in the education
sector and in future investment programs.
3.46     Risks.  Since this would be the first large-scale project
implemented by the MOE and would include educational reform and institution
building objectives, it poses a number of inherent risks. The three major
project risks are that: (a) the implementation demands might be too
complex for the staff of the MOE; (b) the institutional development
objectives may prove difficult to achieve; and (c) the design of the six-
year integrated basic education system may require refining as experience
is acquired.



- 25 -
3.47     The first risk would be addressed through administrative reform
which would introduce more efficient management procedures and develop MOE
staff competence through training; provide contractual arrangements for
full-time qualified local consultants to perform key project tasks; provide
technical assistance support in planning implementation ot complex project
activities; and create a project implementation coordination committee
composed of the directors of key units involved, meetin8 at regular
intervals to review project implementation. To minimize the second risk,
an Organic Law, describing the new structure and functions of the
institutional units of the MOE, would be passed. The operations of the new
units would be based on annual work programs and budgetary targets,
monitored by the Ministry's Consultative Council. Finally, to reduce the
third risk, the education reform proposals would first be evaluated and
monitored in one district prior to countrywide implementation and would be
carried out at a measured and controlled pace. Project implementation
would be monitored through annual reviews, including a major mid-term
review by the Government and IDA, of budgetary targets and progress of the
evaluation of the education reform proposals. Necessary refinements of
reform design would be made during the annual reviews to ensure successful
introduction of the new system on a countrywide basis.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1      Agreements reached at Negotiations.  Assurances were obtained from
the Government that it woulds
(a) implement the basic education reform in the Municipality of Santa
Cruz in three phases as follows: grades 1 and 3, not later than
September 30, 1989, grades 2 and 4, not later than September 30,
1990 and grades 5 and 6, not later than September 30, 1991;
(b) implement the basic education reform countrywide starting in
grades 1 and 3 in 1991, and followed by grades 2 and 4, and 5 and
6 in 1992 and 1993, respectively (para. 3.6);
(c) implement a system of automatic promotion for students in the
Municipality of Santa Cruz for grade 1 not later than September
30, 1991, and for grades 3 and 5 not later than September 30, 1993
and 1995 respectively (para. 3.6);
(d) approve a system of automatic promotion for atuadents by January
31, 1988, and implement the system not later than September 30,
1992 tpara. 3.3);
(e) implement new examinations for students in the Municipality of
Santa Cruz in grade 2 not later than September 30, 1992 and grades
4 and 6 not later than September 30, 1994 and 1996 respectively
(para. 3.6);
(f) prepare and furnish to IDA for review and comment not later than
January 31, 1988, (i) in-service and pre-service training programs
for primary school teachers, and (ii) draft regulations governing
certification and salary status for teachers having successfully
completed these training programs; approve these programs and
regulations by June 30, 1988, and implement them by January 31,
1989 (para. 3.15)s



- 26 -
(g) implement a cost recovery system for textbooks satisfactory to
IDA, including the establishment of the Textbook Revolving Fund
and the School Supplies Revolving Fund, by August 31, 1991 (para.
3.16 and Annex 16);
(h) (i) implement by 1991 the following budgetary adjustments:
increase the MOE budget to the equivalent of 18.5% of the
Government recurrent budget (para. 3.27); increase the basic
education budget to 72% of the MOE budget (para. 3.28); increase
the combined allocations for provision of teaching materials and
for the Inspectorate-General to 10% of the basic education budget
(para. 3.28) and maintain these 1991 percentages in 1992 and 1993;
(i)  by January 31, 1988, set annual targets for pupil/teacher ratio
and introduce all necessary measures to achieve a pupil/teacher
ratio of 36:1 by the 1993/94 school year (para. 3.29);
(j) conduct jointly with IDA annual implementation reviews by August
31 of each year, and a mid-term review by March 31, 1991 in irder
to monitor progrsss towards the project's broad budgetary,
educational and institution building objectives on the basis of
agreed upon intermediary targets, revise project goals as
necessary and agree on work programs, budget and MOE's investment
program (para. 3;44).
(k)  ensure that all MOE staff receiving training abroad under the
project will remain in their assignments for at least three years
after completion of training (para. 3.37); and
(1) ensure that the key persons responsible for project implementation
would have qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA and
will be maintained in MOE throughout project execution (para.
3.36, 4.3(b)).
4.2      Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a) that the Organic Law will have been passed for the purposes of
administrative reform, to establish the new organic structure,
functions of the institutional units, and the staffing profile of
the MOE (para. 3.24);
(b) that the Institute of Education has been legally established;
(c) that the following key persons responsible for project
implementation will have been appointed, under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA: Project Director, Deputy Project
Director, and Accountant (para. 3.36); and
(d) that a separate account will have been opened in a local bank for
the Government counterpart financing of the project, and an
initial deposit of US$75,000 equivalent will have been made into
said account (para. 3.43).



- 27 -
4.3      A Condition of Disbursement would be:
that IDA will have approved the architectural plans as well as the
specifications for building and equipping the Institute of Education prior
to disbursement of funds for civil works (para. 3.35).
4.4      Recommendation.  Subject to the above conditions, the proposed
project is suitable for a credit of US$4.2 million equivalent to the
Republic of Cape Verde repayable over 40 years with a grace period of 10
years.



ANNEX 1
- 28 -                     Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
BASIC DATA
1. Land Area                                                    4003 Km3
2. Population 1985                                               334,000
Net Annual Growth Rate                                          0.9?
Population Density                                            74/Kmz
3. Monetary Unit
CV Esc.                                               US$1 = 72.4 CV Esc.
4. Gross National Product
GNP per capita (1985)                                 US$406
5. Active Population Census 1980) Total                           81,700
Employed                                                      66,610
Military                                                       1,055
Unemployed                                                    14,035
6. Budget (1985)
Government                                            CV Esc. 2348
Education                                             CV Esc. 356
v Education                                           15.1Z
-Cape Verde -             --     Similar Countries --
Amount           Z GNP        Amount          X GNP
Level                     US$        Per Capita         USS        Per Capita
EBE                        41          10.2
EBC                        79          19.5
EBE + EBC Primary          46          11.5             106            13
ESG + ESC Secondary       100           24.7            361            62
8. Enrollment (1983-1984)
Total          Enrollment Ratio
EBE                             47,740                120?
EBC                              8,942                 472
Secondary General                3,285                 12?
Complementary Secondary            843                  5Z
9. Teacher/Pupil Ratio (1983/84)
Enrollment       Teachers        T/P
EBE                                  47,750            1,588         1:30
EBC                                   8,942              257        135
Secondary General                     3,285
Complementary Secondary                 843              128         1s32



-29 -                                                                   ANNEX 1.
ApTilIS,  INDS?     OI                                                   Page   2   of   3
EXPENDITUR    tMICATIONI                          COMPLETION            RECURRgNT
ON EDUCATIOI3  ARCURRNT        ADULT              RAT9 1`OR             UNIT COST  PR0CRE8SION
CUP7 PR               AS PaEtRCN      EEPENDITUI1S  LITEACY PRIM4ARY PRIMARY    PRIMARtY  PRIMAI           PATE PRAM    $1ECONRDART SECOnDAT 3IC35
MAM   POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CR38042 ALLOCTED TO: RATE             ENROLL. SCHOL         STUDEMNT  EDUCATtON  PRIMARY T0  EKMOLL.   STUDETS  RNROL..
ItAR HILLS. (U5$)   DEVOED TO  COVERIDIENY    PUI  SE   RI    (R)    RATIO   CYCLE                pelt      As PERCENT SECONDAR    RtIo          PER        RATIO
(3979) (3979)   EDUCATION  ExpENDITURE             MR         (1976)   (R)         (2)      TRACKER  cws.iCAnmT        (2)        (2)      TRACUR       32)
(1)  (3)  (3)         (4)           (5~~~~~~~~~~~C)  (6)    (7)       (8)        (9)        (10)          (13)        (:2)       (1n)    (34)
IMSRWIACvTj                iA.66  8.870       6,3'1       14.6              -- -         -        103'      300         231       -              99          1)        33       20.90
caa            si~~~~~a    23j6   q.j50b    ,.7'     16.SSY      30'?t 340? 23'?   *,6       306'      100         21        19.9'l,       300          $91       IS       2240'x
GERMANY P.R.        i9    61.2  32,200        4.6          9.9'       -     -go99                  89"      300'        -         -             300'         94'       -        12.30'
NEIU1ANDSA          79    14.0  30,490        7.9          5.3        20   31   25       90?i      96        95         IS        IL)3           99          82        13       32.40
ZEAZAM l          so   ab1  6,081lb    $.SW            3I.          37   31   28       qgb      t00       300         24        33,6          t00          82        is       25.80"
53331               79      6.3  12,250       9.0         38.2        31   30   10       99b       99'      100         38         9.9          100          79'       30'Y    36.50')
E  ITR  ARRICA
W IRNAA             g3      3,O0b    9306    6.0          22.0        41   34   22       40       300        77         32         11.0          40          20        Is        3.60
3080fit             83      4.2      235      I.R8"'      39.0        43   28   21       23        29'       SS         37   ~      O212                      2'       17        3.00
COomms                      i3 .4b    365     3.8         28.0        49   29   22       49        76        60         39        -              45          36        i8        0.60
SJitoOW'            64      0.4      490      3.0         13.9        73   26   ...    t0          42        66         40        61.0           40          10        39        0.60
EwTIOPiA            S%    32,8 b    34Q6    2.9P          313.3       4 S   25   20      53        42        30'        63        19.3           93'         36        44        0.45
KENYA               83    17.4b    .iOb    S,gvb          203         65   16  33    4tab         133        $8         36         14.4          is          t8        26        -
1.1013              62      1,4b    435b    3.            34.9        38   32   26       536      336'       63          49        9.6           46          21        21         13.0
NADACASC4           77      8.5      330      4.0'0       26.0        33   28   19       s0        9&6X      33         ss          6.0          38          14        23        3.10b7
PAIM           $1*    6*11b    230b    3.5           11.4        38   14   25       25b       62        23         63          5.8          12           4        23        0.40
NASRITUS            83      1.06  1,170b    4.3           14.0        A6   36    7       gob       93        72         2)         33.0         100          s0        22         3.00
823A35              83      S,9b    270b    3.6           21.4        73   16   33       376       65        30         40         36.0           9           5        36        0.40
8EYCNEIJ.U          79      0.6   1,770       5.9         22.4'       3A333O                                  -                 - 5 -                         -        -        -
SomaliA             81      4.5      280      1.5         10. 5       so40b  4334b16 6b    5-b     7~b        s-Ob      2,6         9.0b         80b         36         2         .0
VUA"                So    19.2b    3g0b    3.0            -           66   39   ...    32          $l1"      68         34          1.4          44          16        16       ..
SVAZIIAN            83      Oab    940b6   3. 8pb         20.6        51   36   Is       656       93        so         33         11.0          98          29        to        3.00
Y1UANEAM            so    18.3       260      5.9         1?.?        41   10   26       79b       95b       87         43         33.0          jb3                   20'       0.30
V"uGA               80    12.6b    3006    -              36.3'       23b  376  l0b    46          54'       61          34                      17           5        23        0.60
ZAIREg              SI    19.8b    2306    1.1            26.4        -    -    30       34        76        25         30         21.0          40          38        28        2.00
ZAMBIA              so      S. ,b    566b    4,5p         33.1        48   23   22       44b       93        80         48         32.9          19          16        22        .3.0
EINIAMi            of      7,l6    700b    5.            29.3        62   3I    6       O,b       90        SS         39        20.0           as           Is       23        0.10
1ES3R 7111 ICA
Min          -~~79     3.4b    330b    6.5"W          35.0        43   23    S    3lb          '2        30         46        34.0           30          i1        43        3,007
EMtIIRIA            83      6.5      2106    2.3w         21.7        43   29   26       9         36        23         SI        24.3           16           3        24        0.0)
CAZMERO             84    30.0       8lob    3.Ip         -           33  38  28        20         89        436        so        -              -           23        28        2.10
C.A.16              86      2.6b    2606    3.6')'        24.7'?      49   16   74    -            79        A5         65'?       t8            -           18        67        1.40by
CUD                 76      6.4      320      2.A6M7      21.76                         15         ,572s                77                                    3')'     23        0.207
0D3~~~~     78      1.1~~~~3    670   9.0"'?      27.7'?        -         -                -                     566?                    30          -          4361     4.0'
20041. GUiNA        as      0.3      2706    LB6           1.8        47   24    .    206          13        t0         s0          5.2          40          25        3747      -
CAMO                77      0.6   3.420       3.7by        847           -    --  -         -                           4667      -              -           -         19bY      2.80')
0*7381              77      0.6      220      3.3w         6.b        46   25'   6'   job          4067      90'        2767      44.7'%         40          3327x   17 
@3*A15              76    13.3      400      4,Q)'        I3,5         --  1X)                                           77                                  36b3t?   21 
001114              79      5.3     290P    4.6'P         -           25'  28'  28'   20           34        36         38        20.0s0         85          36        29        7.00'
IVOR  COAST         63     9,3b    720       7.3         62.8         51   40    9    35')'        72        79         37        29.0           49          22"       30        1.88
LIBERtA            80       3.9     520      4.6          19.6        43   23   24    30           52        32         35        20.0           76          22        20        2.90
MIALI               SI      1.06     190     4.2'         21.7'       38   21   it    to           10        60         44        15.7           66           3        33        0.90'
NMOUTANIA           is      1.66    3206    S.5           16.9        33   43   25    376          32        60         44        120           30           9        Zs        0.37
micER              84      5.2      3oo      7.8          23.0        40   25   20    14           25        20         36        43.0           37           6        28        0.50
Ntc"LA        *3    9j.6b    7606    7,4y            16.0        -    -    13    36           93        70-        36        19.5          47           23        30        2.00
SENECAL             84      6.4      380     S:0b         24.0        46b  356  jg6   28           52        59         46        26.0           19'         16'B      24        3.20'
SIERR  LemN         77      3.4     250      4.06         16.0b-6           156                    3711                 35        25.0b          814         35'       22        0.60b)'
TOGO                78     2.4      400      6.5w'        26.Sq       30'  28' 21'   to            74        40         54b)'     38.0           52          3261)y    48b       1.6067
LATINf AMERICA AND THE CAR$BEA.
ARGENTINA           78      7.    2.210       2.7         10.9        43'  31'  38'   936          89        52         17        -              87          31         8       23.00
8413735             79     0.2   2.770       5.7          19.3        36   36   31    93b          99        97         24        -              97          75        19 
BARBADOS            18     0.2   2,680       8.5"?y       22.3'1      4)'  31'  16'  996          100)'      99'        277       19.9'          99&         787       20?      -
BOIVIA             s0      5.4      350      4.ts)'       30.5'          -     -        63         147       -          207       -              -           i51       -        12 607
NRAZIL              79   136.5   1,770        3.8          6.2        53    - 14    76             73')'     -          23')'      4.Sb          61          3s'?      34')'    12.62b
CHILE               76    30.9   I ag0       3.2b7       I31.06             -           -         3396K)y    -          3467                     -           55627    2061    33.9067
COLONSIA            80    26.76  1.180b    3.3            25.0        35   20   20    836          78        36         32         6.6           -           47        20       30.0207
COSTA RICA          80      2.26  t.820b    6.4           33.1        40   27   33    90           9)        77         33         5.5           77          40        27       34.00
CUBA                78      9.8     -        8.0          33.0        -     -     -     96        1126K)'    98         36)'      -.             98          Ilb1P    1s        19.0267
OMINICA  ateP.    80       5.3   1.030       2.9          13.0        39   21   22    666          80        33         59         3.2           94          30        33       36.00
ECUADOS             80     8.46  3.330       6.OP         36.7        45   31   16    83          105                   36        32.6           66          4?        36       39.00
et SALVADORt        77     4.4      640      3,467        23.367b     64    8   27    62           82611y   32          39         -41                       26627    37b7       7.9067
CURYDIAA            i8      6.6   1,010       1,7")       t2.66       -    -    -        -         69617                3567      -              69          35bK7    396)'      5.507
GuYAN               76     0.8      630      8.1b7       133,56)       -g-                         9,6        -         32b7                     --          59617               3.0061
HAITI1              so      5*0b    230       3.4'         7.9')'     63   -9    6    236          s0        20         43        19.0           62'          4'       27        0.80
HONDURA             78      3.6      520     3,567        14,367      62'  35   39'   60           8g6K?    30'         416by     32.6'          66'         231)'     19        8.007
JAMAICAi            80      2.1   1,330      6.5          13.7        37   43   20    90           98        95         40          2.3          95          S3        22        8.00
MEXICO              80    65.5   3.880       4.7          17.0'       46   39   35    92           98        53         44         9.5           86          56        I7       30.30
NICARAGUA           78      2.66    6106    3.06w         34.06       -       -- .   906           85bx      24         376        ---           --          21661     306 
PANAMA              78      t.86  1,5506    S. 6'?        21.gby      42'   1'P  33    82b         9367      .          2567      13.6           85'         5067      376)'    20.406)'
PALVAGUA            79      3,0   3,140       3.4'1       14.2        42   37   20    84           83        12         28          3,3t'        76          22        12        0.70
PERU                e0    36.6   3000        3.6          14.3 5y      3   IS   19    80           83        56         39         9.8           89          39        22       14,407
TRINIDAD & 701.   77  3~~.1   3,3     487            ,6        48   32   20    95           98        91         30        30.57          AS          62        24
URUGIMY             78      2.9   2,300      2.5           9,46       -     -     -     94        105ba      --.        266              --                  6462      -        17.o0'y
VEREXUEIA           76    14.4   3,440       3,17          Mo~b       -     -     -     82        10~6b                 28         -1863t                              37       23.307



-30 -ANE  
00IIARAIVE tDUCATriON 1NMICATOR8
April IS. 1981                                                       Page   3  (if  3
CEtRMAL
leNPEDtiAe   EOUCT*0U                        CUIPLETION           RECRREtu
ON 8OIICATION  RECURRENT    ADULt             RATE Pox             unit cost  PROORESSIONo
GNIP PER            As PERCENt    RxpENIITtires  LiTERACY PRINZI FRit*ARY    P81t468?  PRIMARY    RATt PlaN   lEt.ADAR fEtooND9 JOtRE
BIASE  POP. CAPITA  PERCEtNT CUP TOTAL CENTRL ALLOCATES Too RAft    ENIOLL. scumO         STUDETS EDUCATION  P811461 TO  LUCIAL.   &TUORhIS  rnOU..
TEA  IfLLS. (US))  DEVOTL  TO  GOVERWNIEN      PR) $EC  NI    (3)    RATIO  CYCLE         Pat       AS PECENT SECONDARY   RATIO    PE           RATIO
(3979) (1919)   EDUCATION  RRPRUDITtUR         (2)       (1916)   (R)        (I)     ?EACKER   WIIPICPTA      (RI        (2)    TRA.NU       (2)
()  (2)       (3)          (4)           (5)         (6)       (1)      (8)       (9)       (*0)         (23)       (*2)      (*)     (4
EAST ASIA AND TEPACIIPIC
C6IM         Ii 3i.02Ob    310b    3.                  .1.       38   40   22     j?       1?        62        25        0.0          61         35       If .7
1ucN00111         81   Is.5       120W    2.1         9.3        10   24    6     32b      98        6*        37       11.0          18         21       16       5.10
KOREA             82    3  lb  I.6166    1.1IV       20.8        34   34   31     96       99        98        43        39.0         98         84       18       1.800
MALAYSIA          84    A5.2b  1.870b    6.1         16.1        39"  43   1      70b      91'       91        26       II.SW         89         7s       St       4.00
PAM*3 N.C.        83     3.06    820      3.4        19.0        40  31  22        -        0        7IS       3*'%     *5.0          3           3'      2'       10
PNILIPPIISS  19  8*3b    8906    2.8'    4.0       64   36   -        5        4       85         St        .1.         89          55       36      23.00
S*WAI'08          8o     1,4   6.420      2.1         6.1        39   40   16     83       92        St        3*        8.8          96         55       21       8.OD
SOLMON ISL.       82     0.2b    640      6.69"      19.8b       41   34   20     15       18        80        2?       *0.5          40         so       t8       1.J0
TNOAI.AND         82    49.06    .00b    3.4         10. 3       $9   * 4   1 0   66       M0        68        2 1       9.le         44         46       IS6      4.00
YAJWAIU           86     0,jb    -        6.3        25.5        6 1   2 7    4   1 3      Its       60        26       35.0          25         20       16       2.00
303111 ASIA
8AIICLAOESN       To    92.3b      90     t. jP       MI.8        3 I   I7  20    22b      63        -         13        5.6          -          *4       21       1.43
BHUTANI           80      3.2      80     3.6        13.0        ---              10        * 2                      -          -                     -       -
INDIA             17   659.6     230      2.9?y       9. 9~1     -   -            36       79'      -          41                     -          28'      -         LO
NIPAL             82    M,ob    3506    3.6         -            ---              1 9      10        -         38       -             -          21       is       ).10
PAKISTAN          82    81.1b    380b    2.0          1.0        38   20   24     22       so        4 1       30        5.9          56         23 1      5       3.00
RUROI.  IOCI EAT AII)  OR  AFRICA
= 16NAISTA        11    15.3      -       1.1         3.7        4?   *9   Is     12       331b      69        376      -             62          6       22by      3.001
ALCERIA           79    18.  3  .770      1.8eV      12.3        344  264  21'   3 5       a31       456       31?       7*37         355        29?      26        3.701
iCY??             82    43.30    630'   4,6"          7.9        31a  35   26'   44        15'       80n       34'       9.6'         83'        43'       19   1.80
AREECR            16     9.3   4,140      2.6"       10.66       31   26  2*      -        9161      -         296       6.2?         -          lgb      p161    II.$*k
IRAN              19    36.9     -        5.28y      14.310     -    -    -       so      30303                328        -                      44"R    140       4.904Y
IRAQ              19    12.6   2.710      4.381       6.981     -    -    -       -       *001      --         28                                4501     290      9.30'?
IREtLAND          81     ),46  6.480      6.Sol      It.8ay      -     -     -    98       93       9I         29       -             is         6I       14      13.00
JORDAN3           83     2, 2b  1,420b    4q90       30.2        19   44   38    706       928,      83        32       15.1          =          696      38       9
LESANON           i0     2.3      -       -          18.650,      -               -        96'       -         19              -                 46'      -
lmoRo      ~      84    RI.86    6706    6.OV        22.9        38   43   19    35        178        9        31       15.           -          14'      36
GIA               as     t.2b  6,4g0b    3.2          12.758     -     -     -    3067     1j83      61'       ISO      -             90         its      3'-
PORTUGAL          19     9.86  2,060      3.6        12.2        30   28   It     i8       91        20        *90      12.8         88'         41X               0.30'
ROMNUIA           76    22.3   2.300      3*9by       6.27      -.  -    -        98      *06ho                336      -             98         84631.6b
SPAIN             ;6    31.0   4.920      2.11y      16.81       -     -    -     -        paby      -         29b                    -          61by      -      24.3061
SYRIA             7s     8.6   1.370      4.49       10.3        is   25   26     S8       8761      80        336                    68         41b?     21b    12.60
TUNISIA           79     6.4   3.330O    1.09        39.0        42   39   is     626     300'      80         396      12.8          30         30'      30       6.00
TURRE             83     47.5  1.230      5.3        16.2        50   22   24     73       I10       71        31        6.0          Ss         26       it       8.00
TIM1EN A.R.              9.3b    530b    1.9         17.1       80   20   it      21'      Ss       28         51       21.6          so          9       t0       3.90
TIM"8 F.D. K.     82     2.0b    4106    1.6          9.1        63' 14'  as    55         61        34        S5       22.08        66          *7       to       2.50
S13IoAT PO DEYLoPINr COUNTRITESs
Number of riutri..:a                   846             93      70   69   6?      a3       92       68         95       65           i5          93       O8      S5
RinSes                                  (.4-          (3.1-  (13-  (5-  (1-    (8-      (12-     (*2-        (11-     (3.4-        (10-        (3.      (6-     (0.05-
30.0)         54.3)  94)   46)  33)    99)      319)     99)         7?)      67.0)        100)       84)       48)     19O)
Qanrttl,ass Upper:                       5.6          21.1      St   36   22     SI       98        80        43       20            8?         47       26       13.0
V4iedesa                     4.0           16.1     43   28   Is      53       O3       61         35       is           61          26       12       3.1
lovert                       3.0           13.0     38  21  13        25       60       31         28        9           40          14       19       1.0
Qaofttil. Deviation:                     1.5           5.4    6.5  1.5  4.1   28.0      19,0      22.5       7.0      5.6          23.S       36.5      3.5       5.0
Meant                                    4.4          17.0      46   28   18     53       16        59        36        36           62         31.      23-    6.9
standard DeV18t1on:                      1 .9          8.7      12   10    7     2(       27        24        It       13            21         23        7       7.4
Modesw                                   4.0           16.0     43   28   t9     53       83        61        3s        Is           63         36       it        3.)
SYNROLSs                                                             FOOTNOTES
-   06311 *INAVAILAIL                                               A - 0AT*  PRIOR TO "ASE TMA               S-NEIJSYT&IOF  mSCAou (u1E) 0u.
.. A GNITUJO  NIL OR NECICIRIL                                      8 * DATUM MORI RECENr TRtAM MgS TEA        T * NOR AND STATE COW111083EII ONLY
7 DATIII QUS?1ONASLE                                                N * CRRNT PRICESs                         V - PtELIC EEPDII0ITR  ONLT
8 INCLUDES PART-TinE STUDENTS                                       I * NET ENROLtJIRN? RATIO                 X * INCLDUR  OVER-ACE STUDENIS
P- CROSSENIROLIJ4NT RATIO                 T U8508031EUCES
P * COP
SOURCES:        Columns I and 2: World Ronk Atlas or Education seetor field missioOO.
C1unn8 3 to 14: Venld Reek Education sector asosloaB, Governmnt sources entdlor the 1*'ses Stetietleel Yearbook.
cooepertlve dUeatlont Data ere u.e.fd tit the evoluetios of various education sy0te08 and a*G.l10i* of t@l@tlve 610886 of eduesrionol development betimenvsrious
countries. limves,, oft the basis of the perceent data. ctoao-nettonal cosparteon shtould be apprOached With 5reat caution. bite, ptecnted in the albove table hove
been collected l8Igely by Beak aelsiong frO. 5overnwasn aurc*0g the reianidar are staff estleetee or d8ts fron 31480go. Efforts have. been sode to standardleo
definitions end4, Within 11.1g., to cthek the accutety of the date. Nevort'lelss. much date ore sEtil imperfect to oeevrel respects aod the Renk to working to
IAProvo thes progrtesively on the occaCion of its operational work. le the Sam of those dote, the following qualificetioes ehould be kept to minds
(2) UudestIon- am dWined in the t&bte lncludes oil education and training. bot.h formal and iI,ep-f@n'51.
(2) 'Priooerp, education wref. to education St the first level and 'oetondary' education refer,e to all education at the Secondary level regardless, et t,pe
(e.g. general, technical, sorlcultural).
(3) 'iAtferec rates' (eel. 6) arm oftten obtsined from co.Jntry CSfivsuO. In sWlg countries they are, ooly approxlestione and it io doubtful that eng unlfota
d"1intition Of 'Aiteratahe. been fo tlloved etOnistantly.
(4) B6tbltc expenditure tn edouttexo tcole. 4 and 5) refer. to all capital and recurrent expendiuores devoted to education by public and que4t-peblle
(1)   -tnratteet retims  (Cole. 1. 12 end 34) refor to school patr and are the prerotage of eligible Children enrolled full-tine into te pproeieRe eaheol,
PUblIC 8.1 Private by level. They are miltes su,3ect to A 41 vis t5is Of error in ths developing countrieso 0vig to vtstlattens to the seers"et o houSe
dale4 (4..., see-poerlfi  population end eoelmt).trollsent figure. frequently are higher then the nunber of studoest. actually to school.
il*$eae.*4 dtudouent oy ho ineluj.S. In ihe" figeree and &an Enflete the r&itos.



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
BASIC EDUCATION ENROLLMENT RATIO - 1985/86
==_==---=======--=--===---a ==----=-- --                          == ==-=== ====r:;= _- = -----================
ESE                                       EBC                                       ESE and EBC
ENROLLMENT                               ENROLLMENT                                ENROLLMENT
ENROLLMENT POPULATION  RATIO              ENROLLMENT POPULATION RATIO               ENROLLMENT POPULATION RATIO
---------------------------------------------------_-----___---------------------                          -             8
CAPE VERDE         48854       38724    125.8                 9500       18884    50.3                 68184      57608    100.9
PRAIA              10478        8724    120.1                 2688        3968    66.4                 13088      12680    103.0
STA CATARINA        5384        4363    123.2                 1404        2186    64.3                  6768       6538    103.6
STA CRUZ            3423        2881    119.8                  418        1325    31.6                  3841       4188     91.8                1
TARRAFAL            3483        2798    124.5                  572        1349    42.4                  4056       4147     97.8               w
FOGO                4898        3958    123.8                  492        1744    28.2                  6390       6700     94.8
BRAVA               1078         978    110.2                  172         481    36.8                  1260       1459     86.7                1
MAIO                 898         S86    119.0                  124         240     61.7                  820        825     99.4
R.GRANDE            3479        2849    122.1                  564        1606    36.8                  4033       4354     92.6
PORTO NOVO          2474        1687    148.4                  304         932     32.6                 2778       2699    106.9
PAULO               1408        1173    120.0                    0         690      0.0                 1408       1763     79.9
S. VINCENTE         7848        5789    135.6                 2046        3006'    68.0                 9893       8796    112.5
S. NICOLAU          2282        1683    138.0                  288         909    31.7                  2560       2672     99.1
SAL                 1253         903    138.8                  388         433    89.1                  1839       138    122.7
BOA VISTA            610         425    120.0                  153         229    86.8                   683        854    101.4
-G===- ~             ========           = 5 -  _=
0
I1~
our



-32 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMPLEMENTARY BASIC EDUCATION
PROPORTION OF EBE GRADUATES REGISTERED IN EBC
EBE Graduates                Registered in EBC          Proportion
1978/79          5,877         1979/80          2,970          50.5
1979/80         5,901          1980/81          2,845          48.2
1980/81         6,530          1981/82          3,082          47.2
1981/82         6,042          1982/83          3,615          59.8
1982/83         5,718          1983/84          3,327          58.2
1983/84          6,584         1984/85          3,695          56.1
Tota'        36,652                          19,534          53.3



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
EDUCATION COVERAGE: ENROLLMENT RATE, 1983-1984
Enrollment      Enrollment     Aggregate Total        Net Total
School-Age        Total         Gross       of School-Age     .t Normal          School              School
Cycles and Classes         Age      Population      Enrollment     Rate 1/       Children 2/        Ago s/         Enrollment 4/      Enrollment 5/
Basic education - First cycle                      3886S          47750        123.60           32574            15628               84.2                40.4
Class 1                   7             9837         15308         156.30            7897            7o0                 78.2               71.2
Class 2                    8            9705         12236         126.07            892             3873                92.7               39.9
Class 3                    9            sel0         10388         108.19            8648            2735                90.1               28.5
Class 4                  10             9523          9823         103.15            7237            2020                  78               21.2
Basic education - Socond cycle                     18862           8942         47.43            3836             1854               19.3                 9.8
Clase 5                  11             9470          5324         58.22             1438            1228                15.2               12.9
Class 8                  12             9382          2618         27.90             2199             828                23.4                8.7   >
General secondary - First cycle                    27112           3286         12.12            1369              420                  S                 1.6
Class 7                  13             9232          1514         18.29              270             213                 2.9                2.2
Class 8                  14             9836          1046          11.58             483             143                 5.1                1.8
ClasS 9                  15             8844           735          8.31              826              74                 7.1                0.8
General secondary - Second cycle                   17062            843          4.94             179               82                  1                 0.6
Class 10                  16            8854    ,      404          4.87               72              48                 0.8                0.8
Class 11                 17             8408    '      439          6.22              107              34                 1.3                0.4
TOTAL               0           101891         80820         59.81            37747           17984                37.1               17.7
SOURCE: Cabinet d'etudes et de planification, UEC.
1/     Proportion of enrollment compared to population: capacity of the system.                                                                             z
2/     School-age enrollment includes those children falling within the age limits for each cycle.                                                             X
Example: between ages 7 and 10 for basic education, etc.                                                                                             0
8/     Enrollment of students whose ages correspond to clasS level.
Example: age 7, first class; age 8, second class, etc.
4/     Aggregate total: proportion of school-age enrollment.
5/     Net total: proportion of enrollment where age corresponds correctly to class level.



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
*EBE ENROLLMENT BY SEX 1979/80-1983/84
1979/80                                                 1983/84
TOTAL     MALE   FEMALE    X MALE   X FEMALE               TOTAL   MALE   FEMALE    X MALE    FEMALE
CAPE VERDE     52208   28535   25873         S0.8       49.2            47251   23870   2S381          60.6      49.5
PRAIA           635s    4100    4250         49.1       50.9              9431    4763    4488         66.5       49.5
STA CATARINA    7971    4128    8843         51.8       48.2              S154    2885    2489         62.1       47.9
STA CRUZ        4849    2188    2181         49.9       60.1              3094    1543    1561         49.9       60.1
TARRAFAL        4884    2457    2207         52.7       47.3             3881    1797    1804          49.9       50.1
FOOO            4970    2613    2467         50.6       49.4              4480    2245    2236         60.1       49.9
BRAVA           1231      858      673       63.6       48.6             1ow      684      628        61.7       48.3
MAIO             799      427      372       58.4       48.8               700     387      383        62.4       47.8
R.&RANDE        4267    2128    2129         60.0       60.0              3760    1909    1860         60.6       49.5
PORTO NWVO      2432    1273    1159         62.8       47.7              8102    1535    1567         49.6       60.5
PAULO           1871      721      660       52.6       47.4              1229     625      604        60.9       49.1
S. VINCENTE     7481    3721    8760         49.7       60.3              7819    8783    8838         49.7       60.3
S. NICOLAU      2889    1386      1284        51.8      48.7              2821    1192    1129         61.4       48.8
SAL             1042      s89      u0s       11.7       48.8              1146      98s     544        52.3       47.7
BOA VISTA        8652     347      305       53.2       48.8               530     275      25S        81.9       48.1
*_ 
o



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
BASIC EDUCATION ENROLLMENT GROWTH 1979/80-1985/86
EBE                                                          EBC
X GROWT X GROWTH    ROWTH                                    X GROWTH X GROWMH X GROWTH
1979/80 1983/84  1986/88 190/84  1980/88  1984/86            1979/80 1988/84  1986/98 1986/84 1980/86  1984/88
CAPE VERDE     52208   47251   48854    -9.5    -8.8         3.0              6951    8507    9600    44.2    81.0    11.7
PRAIA           8360    9431   10478    12.9    25.6    11.1                  1887    2297    2588    88.2    63.4    12.7
STA CATARINA    7971    5154    5384   -85.8   -82.7         4.1              1029    1397    1404    35.8    88.4        0.5
STA CRUZ        4349    3094    3428   -28.9   -21.8    10.8                    69     867      418   605.1   808.5    17.1
TARRAFAL        4884    3801    8483   -22.8   -26.3    -8.3                   209     898      672    88.0   178.7    45.5
FOGO            4970    4480    4898    -9.9    -1.4         9.3               824     483      492    83.8       1.9    18.6
BRAVA           1231    1090    1078   -11.5   -12.4    -1.1                   130     194      172    49.2    82.8   -11.8
MAIO             799      700      696   -12.4   -12.9    -0.6                 128      84      124   -81.7       0.8    47.6
R.ORANDE        4267    3780    8479   -11.7   -18.8    -7.6                  a85      514      564    44.8    58.1       7.8
PORTO NOVO      2432    3102    2474    27.5        1.7   -20.2                 82     18S      804   125.6   270.7    84.3
PAULO           1871    1229    1408   -10.4        2.7    14.8                 0        0        0      0.0      0.0     0.0
S. VINCENTE     7481    7819    7848        1.8     4.9      8.0              1892    1881    2046    85.1    48.9        8.7
S. NICOLAU      2839    2321    2282   -12.1   -14.3    -2.6                   209     830      288    67.9    87.8   -12.7
SAL             1842    1140    1263       9.4    20.2       9.9               218     81S8 a8          44.6    77.1    22.5
BOA VISTA        852      580      510   -18.7   -21.8    -8.8                 84      127      1S5     61.2    82.1    20.5
a
0
U'h



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
Structure of the Education System Showing Current EB Structure
General Education                                                 Higher Education
(abroad)
Pre-school            Basic                       Secondary
Primary   Complementary     General     Complementary               ' T -
1 2  3 4  5  6  7  8  9      1011                    ~~~~~~~Secondary
School
Vocational and                      Teachers
Technical Education             3  4
Nautical
12 13 14 Training
Primary                 Center
Industrial and  Teacher Training
Commercial
Center for101                                                  o 
Adult Education
Continuing Education, Vocational Training
and Community Centers



REPUBLIC '.F CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF 1986 HOE REVISED BUDGET
(CV Esc. '000)
PLANNING                             SECON-              EBE              ADULT    RADIO              X of
ADMIN    UNIT      EBE      EBC    EBE+EBC   DARY   TECH.ED.    T.T     CFPES   EDUC      EDUC     TOTAL   Total
Emoluments         10287.1  2983.8 188437.9  81807.9 270245.8  48820.0  11150.4   2809.2   8688.9  14707.3   8652.2 889804.6    82.765
Teachers             0.0      0.0 185496.0 81807.1 227102.1  37982.4   8958.8   1971.8  8802.5  12981.8         0.0 296296.6   88.08X
Administrators    9767.1  2988.8  22942.9  20200.8 43143.7  9819.8  2098.1   837.8  1178.8  1677.7   852.2  71748.8   18.08%               .
Housing            510.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   1017.8    96.0        9.0   1089.8    48.0       0.0   2781.4    0.82X
Materials            480.0     70.0  1816.6  8413.5   5029.0   2403.6    200.0    50.0    310.0    60.0           0.0  8582.5      1.92X
School               0.0      0.0      0.0  1456.0   1465.0   730.0    60.0         0.0    280.0       6.0      0.0   2468.0    0.55%
Office             480.0     70.0   1815.5   1968.6   8674.0   1673.5    150.0    60.0    80.0    80.0          0.0  6117.5      1.37X
Travel              8082.8   6S4.4   2311.9   142.3   2454.2    674.8    419.2         0.0   789.6   360.0        0.0  8184.6      1.83%
Rent                 482.0      0.0   3063.4      7.2   3080.8      7.2       0.0      0.0   808.0   788.0        0.0  4673.8    1.02X
Schools              0.0      0.0  2299.8       0.0  2299.8       0.0       0.0      0.0   252.0   400.0        0.0  2951.8    0.68X
Office             432.0      0.0   753.8       7.2   780.8       7.2      0.0       0.0    54.0   888.0        0.0  1822.0    0.38X
Maintenance         2440.0    70.0  18218.0   762.5  18978.6   448.5    55.0           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  19990.0    4.47%
Buildings            0.0      0.0  14734.0    18.0  14747.0    13.0         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  14780.0     3.30%
Equipment         2440.0     70.0   1482.0   749.5  2231.5   433.5    56.0           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  6230.0    1.17%
Uniforms             220.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   220.0    0.05X
Welfare Services    1000.0      0.0   4224.2   1208.9  6431.1    763.5   2080.0  2887.5  18800.8         8.0      0.0  25662.9     6.72X
ICASE                0.0      0.0  4224.2  1208.9  6431.1   803.5          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  80e4.6    1.385
Fellowships       1080.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    160.0   2080.0   2887.5  13800.8       0.0      0.0  19528.3    4.37X      t
Other               2710.0     'S.0  2789.0   2195.6   4984.5   1473.5    645.0       60.0     60.0    130.0      0.0  9978.0    2.23X       z
TOTAL              20591.7   8893.0 218847.9  89535.8 308183.7  64288.8  14449.6   6398.7  23805.3  16015.3    662.2 448878.3   100.00%      4-
X of Totel            4.81%    0.83X   48.93X   20.04S  88.98%   12.15%    8.23x    1.21%   5.28X   3.58%    0.15X 100.00X



- 38 -                     ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
b:3 annex6
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (EBE)
1985/86 a/
Teachers   Teachers
2nd Level                       Teachers       Teachers    With      Without
Teachers                        by Class    by Category  Tenure       Tenure
Category and Class              No.     I      No.     X  No.   Z    No.   I
Qualified
Primary       1st class (J)      50     3
Teachers      2nd class (L)      89     6      243    16   75   5    168  11
EBE           3rd class (M)    104      7
Unqualified
'Professores  1st class (Q)    168    11
de            2nd class (R)      -           1,195    80  168  11
Posto4        3rd class (S)  1,027    69                            1,027  69
Monitors                 (U)     55     4       55     4               55   4
Total                       1,493   100   1,493   100  243  16  1,250  84
a/   Source:  GEP



- 39 -                      ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
RESULTS o_ THE EVALUATION TEST
APPLIED TO "PROFESSORES DE POSTO'
(July 1986) (a)
Municipalities/                                                          Not
Categories                Applicants     Absentees      Approved      Approved
(c)
Praia                        123              8            47            68
Santa Catarina               162             16            70            76
Santa Cruz                    94              5            45            44
Tarrafal                     198             16            70           112
Maio                          17              -            11             6
logo                          95              4            43            48
Brava                         26              -            25             1
S. Vincente                   50            (b)           (b)           (b)
R. Grande                     83            (b)           (b)           (b)
P. Novo                       46            (b)           (b)           (b)
Paul                          32            (b)       .   (b)           (b)
S. Nicolau                    39            (b)           (b)           (b)
Sal                           33              -             3            30
Boavista                      18              3             1            14
Total                   1,016
(a)  Sources  DEBE - Division of Primary Education
(b) The results of the evaluation test had not yet arrived by the time the
mission left Cape Verde.
(c)  'Professores de posto' with less than 3 years of te&ahing experience
and first time applicants.



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMAY EUCATION UPOWDDI PROJECT
EBE TEACHER SUIPLY-1974/1986
PERCENT
EALIFED                       EWLY
TEACHER   AWIONML    400A.IIM
ANNAL      .dNJAL              OUTPUT LESS   QMLIF5         TEACHlERS
PERCENT                 PERCLT        MJAL    ALIFIED UIALIED   UALIFIED            TEACHER    TEAOIERS       OF 1EV
TOTAL QJALIFIED QUALIFIED UNLIAUFIED UQUAL1FIED       TEACHER   TEACHER   TEACIERS   TEACHER         DXREASE NOT TEAOIG       TEACHERS
YEAR TEACHERS  TEACHERS TEACHERS    TEACES    TEACHERS   INREASE  INCREASE   INCREASE    OUTPUT               (8Y)         (19)          (8s7)
1       2          3        4            5           6           7          8           9         1O           11           12           13
1974    l08o         82      7.7          966        92.8                      aM 0A                                           NA           MA
1975     1242        89      7.2         1158        92.8         174          7         167         NA           NA           NA          4.0
1976    1251         ca      4.2         1199        95.8           9        -86          4S        MA            MA           "A       -488.0
1977     1814        8S      6.5         122         98.5          6          82          3I         MA           NA           NA         S-.8
1978    1412        128      8.7         1289        91.8          98         88         6s         MA            NA           NA         88.8    4D-
1979    1481        145     1.1          12161       89.9          19         22          -4        "A            "A           NA        116.8
l196     1S88       167    19.9          1871        89.1         197         22          8S         NA           MA           NA         20.6
18o1     1878        149    10.8         1229        89.2        -160        -18       -142         44           204           62         11.3
1852     1497        168    11.8         1241         88.2         29         17          12        47            18           50         58.6
1988    1478        208     13.8         1270        86.2          66         87          29         J8          -28            1         58.1
1984     1s5        287     14.9         1881        85.1        11          84          81         so                        is 1       29.6
1985    1427        286    16.5          1191        88.6        -161         -1       -186          82          198           8           0.6
1986    1498        248    16.8          1250        88.7          66          7          C9         S1          -8S           24         19.6
NOTE: The neaotive growtb In teAchor stock In 1989 and 1986, roulted from the gevernsnt
efforts to rodue  the numbor of over a" pupils In school.



- 4i -             ~~~ANNEX S
- 41 -                      Page 4 of 4
b3:an=ex5
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
GRADUATES FROM TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTIONS (a)/
EBE and EBC
(1980/81 - 1985/86)
Level of Schooling
and                              EBE                      EBC
Institutions             EMP           EMP
Year                    Praia      S. Vincente    Total         CFPES     Total
1980/81                  22            22           44                     44
1981/82                  24            23           47                     47
1982183                  25            13           38                     38
1983/84                  22            28           50            28       78
1984/85                  32             -           32             9       41
1985/86                  31             -           31          -(b)       31
(a) Sources: II 1?N) (OE)
Ten.her Training Course, Memorandum, 1985; EMP - Praia
(b) There was no intake of students in 1984/85.



- 42 -
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE                                 ANNEX 6
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
TEACHER SALARIES 1982-1986
TEACR SALARY  OH    (CV E.. '$G                GROH    RATE
102      1098     1064     105    1908   1S(REV) 1982-90
No.o.  Toachero           100      18o      1619      1525     1525       1625
Total Salarls            97476   16629   122100   12818   120458        105495      0.7
Ave Sal/Year (curent)  60.61    6.84    06.80    01.19    62.2          101.62      O.1#
(1068 priea)      78.50    66.04    79.52    04.74    01.28      OO.81      -4.59
SAL/ldLTPLE QlPCAP        2.40     2.29     2.85      2.14     2.o2       2.60
TEACHER/PUPIL RATIOS
192      1908     1064     1905    100
No.of Teachore(Dudg.t)  158       1885     1519      1625     1525
Enrol lmnt               46842    45174    47251    470?0    40860
TIP RATIO                   .5     27.7     81.1    81.4       81.9
AVERAGE DAILY SALARY BY OCCUPATION
1902     1068     1064     10   106      10(REV.)
MACHEI                     25       252     a8         8        814       .71
CAR DRIV                   260      869      we       $78
CLERK                      481      522      522      5"
CASHIER                    276      888     a888       83
SAS CLERK                  250     8an       86      8s
STORE ASSISTANT            206      869 8so1           8s
STORE HEAD                 875      45       400     4*0
RATIO OF EARINS  Of OTH   OCCUPATIOS TO TEACHR SALARY
1062     1068     1064     15100 1       100B     l (REV.)
TEACHER                    1.0      1.0      1.9       1.0
CAR DRIVERt                1.1      1.2      1.O       1.2
CLERK                      1.9      2.1      1.7      1.8
CASHIER                    1.2      1.8      1.1       1.1
SALES CLERK                1.1      1.2      1.6      1.6
STORE ASSISTANT            1.1      1.2      1.0       1.0
STORE HEAD                 1.6      1.8      1.5       1.5
PRCENT TEACER SARIES OF IIE UOET (CV Ese.OWH RATE
1902     18       1904     1905 10066   16N(REV.) 1962-666
Total Salarlie           97470   110625   12216    128818   126458      10645       0.7$
TOTAL BUDGET            1265    188501   157864   168168   1560         216647      6.81
SAl URIES/BOE            $0.9    81.8      7.6      76.0    70.2         75.7    -1.51



-43-                       ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
COSTS OF TEXTBOOKS
(CV Esc.)
Cost per Pupil per Grade - Existing (E) and Prolect (P) Books
No. of                              Total Cost
Grade                 Pupil's Books                    E                      P
1                         2                        162                   130
2                         3                        353                   276
3                         3                        410                   294
4                         3                        453                   269
5                         3                       (244)*                 537
6                         3                       (244)*                 540
Evolution of Cost per Pupil per Grade with Effect of Second-hand Books
(constant prices)
Total Cost per Grade
Grade       1991         1992         1993         1994        1995       1996
1          130          65*          33*         130         65*         33*
2          --          276          138*          69*       276         138*
3          294         147*          74*         294        147*         74*
4          --          269          134*          67*       269         134*
5          --           --          537          268*       134*        537
6          --           --          540          270*       135*        540
* Second-hand books, 502 of previous year's price.
Reprinted books are without project subsidy.



ANNEX 7
- 44 -                           Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
SPECIFICATIONS OF EXISTING TEXTBOOKS
Color    Color
Subject   Grade       Pages     Peper         (text)    (cover)     Plndtnc
E      P    E   P   E      P       E   P      E    P
Portuguese     1      88    64   80  79  4/2    2/1        4    2  swn  2 wires
2     1m4    96  80  70  4/2   2/1         4    2   sewn  2 wlres
-      98     988 O   79   4/2    1        4   2   sown 2 wires
4     112    96  80  70   4/2    1         4    2  sewn  2 wires
=        5      176    128  80  ?9  4/2    1         4    2  swn  sown
-        6      176   128  80  70            1       4   2   sewn swn
Maths       1     182    48   80  70  2         2      4    2   sewn 2 wire
2     124    96   89  70   2       2       4    2   sewn  2 wlres
U         8     98     9   80  70  4/2    2/1        4    2  sewn 2 wires
4      98     9  86  N7  4/2    1          4   2    wn 2 wlres
a        5       -    128    -   70    -    1        -   2      -  sewn
8       -    128    -  70   -       1       -   2     -   son,



COORDINATION DECISION
LOCAL        REGIONAL      EXECUTIVE     & CONTROL    MAKING
0~~~~~~~
d                      1 0 | ~~I I _  _      _I  !
-              I~~~~sz I         I I
W                                  4             0            t    3  CM!
S~~S                         liI W
C    I                                           ii
*                                               -
I                                        C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  
m~~~~~~~~~~
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CENTRAL A8MHTRATION             REGIONAL 8 LOCAL ADMNSTRATION
8 lCtlV                           S 



- 46 -                      ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 4
b4:cfnprmed
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATIO"' UPGRADING PROJECT
BUDGETARY ALLOCATIONS TO BASIC EDUCATION
1.        The quality of basic education in Cape Verde is adversely
affected by low and declining allocations. Between 1982 and 1986 the
percentage of MOE budget allocated to basic education fall from 71? to 65?.
Declining allocations to basic education is reflected in a steady fall of
per-pupil costs. In 1983 the per-student cost of basic education in Cape
Verde was US$42, representing 10? of GNP per capita. This compares to an
average of US$121, or 13? of GNP per capita for similar countries in the
region. Over the period 1982-86 the unit costs of primary education
declined at an annual rate of 13?, to 8X of GNP per capita, in 1983
constant prices. These low unit costs are not, therefore, a reflection of
increased efficiency but a result of poor quality instructional inputs.
This is particularly evident in the way it has limited the Government's
ability to recruit and retain qualified teachers and to provide adequate
inspectorate services.
2.        Teachers' salaries.  In addition to the low and declining expen-
ditures on primary education, teacher employment is affected by a diminish-
ing share of teacher salaries in the primary education budget and poor
employment conditions. Although between 1982-86 the share of non-teacher
salaries in the primary education budget increased and expenditures on
materials and other operational items remained constant, the relative share
of teacher salaries fell from 81? to 76Z. Consequently, average teachers'
salaries, compared to salaries of non-professional occupations (clerks,
drivers) in Cape Verde, are low. In 1982 primary school teachers earned
less than those employed as car drivers, Government clerks and sales
persons (Table 1). By 1985 teachers' salaries had improved relative to
some occupations, but were still about 20? lower than those of car drivers
and 80? lower than those of Government clerks. They are also low in
comparison to teachers' salaries in countries in the region with similar
GNP per capita. In 1983, for example, teachers' salaries were about
US$920, representing 2.3 times GNP per capita compared to an average of 4
times GNP per capita in similar countries in the region. In 1983 constant
prices, this ratio declined by 5? annually from 2.4 in 1982 to 2.0 in 1986.
3.        The problem of low teachers' salaries is compounded by career
insecurity. In 1983-84, 82? of all basic education teachers were working
without tenure, and could be terminated at the end of any school year if
they failed to satisfy the conditions of the annual teacher evaluation
examinations. In the EBE cycle, during 1985-86, the number of temporary
teachers, at 84?, was even higher; only 5? of the teachers were qualified
and had tenure. Progress through the teacher salary scales is another



- 47 -
Page 2 of 4
factor affecting teacher conditions. Promotion to the first step in the
scale occurs after 10 years, followed by 2 other steps at 5-year intervals.
As a result, frustration for newly qualified teachers sets in quickly and
many students who complete primary teacher training either do not enter
teaching or, in the case of those who do become teachers, soon leave the
profession.
4.        Teacher utilization.  Inadequate teacher expenditures is affected
by inefficient use of teacher resources. The average teacherlpupil ratio
of 1:30 is the result of weak controls on the use of the shift system. No
clear criteria exists on when the double- or triple- shift can be used and
teachers increase school sessions to obtain additional income. Conse-
quently, average class sizes are low, around 26, and in areas with the
triple-shift accounting for over 40? of total school enrollment, 602 of the
classes have fewer than 20 pupils. Utilization of teachers is therefore
inefficient.
5.        Inspectorate.  Expenditures on teacher support in Cape Verde is
limited to the salaries of the inspectorate staff. In 1986, nothing was
allocated to the EBE level for teaching materials while 1.6? of the EBC
budget was allocated to school materials. In the same year, 1.12 of the
EBE budget went for traveling, and even less, 0.2?, of the EBC was for
traveling. Consequently, classrooms are bereft of the minimum school
supplies making teachers severely handicapped in performing their
functions. The Inspectorate is rendered ineffective, as inspectors are not
equipped with teaching materials, and cannot visit schools frequently
enough to provide classroom support or in-service training to the large
corps of unqualified teachers.
6.        The low and declining allocations to basic education is largely
the result of declining budgetary allocations to the education sector, and
mis-allocation within the basic education budget. Although the share of the
Government budget in GNP increased slightly between 1982-86, MOE's share of
the Government budget fell from about 17.8? to 15? over the same period.
Similarly, primary education's share of the MOE budget fell from about 53?
in 1982 to about 45Z in 1986. During this same period, all other divisions
of the MOE increased their shares of the budget, with the exception of
primary teacher training, which declined from 1.2? to 0.6?, and technical
education, which fell from 3.3? to 2.91. Adult education showed the
largest increase, from 0.53? to 3.58Z of the MOE budget, followed Dy
general secondary education which increased its share from 8.7? .o 11.7?.
While there is some justification for increases in adult education,
increase literacy, and secondary education to effect a modest increase in
output to meet with demand, these should not be effected at the expense of
basic education, which should produce more literate students to reduce
illiteracy and to improve quality at higher level of education.



- 48 -                                      ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 4
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF EBE AND EBC BUDGET 1986
(CV Esc. '000)
PERCENT           PERCENt           PERCENT
EBE  DISTR.       EBC  DISTR.    EBE.EBC DISIR.
--       -------------          ------        ------      --------
Emoluments        188487.9     86.2 81807.9      91.4 279246.8     87.7
Teachers        165496.0     7t.7  61607.1     68.8 227102.1     78.7
Administrators   22942.9     10.6 20200.8      22.6  43143.7     14.0
Housing              0.0      9.0      0.0      9.0      0.a      0.0
Materials           1615.6      0.7   8418.6      3.8   6029.0      1.6
School               0.0      0.0   1466.0      1.6   1466.0      0.5
Office            1616.5      0.7   1958.6      2.2   8574.0      1.2
Travel              2311.9      1.1    142.8      0.2   2464.2      0.8
Rent                8068.4      1.4      7.2      0.0   8060.6      1.0
Schools           2299.8      1.1      0.0      0.0  2299.8       0.7
Office             753.6      0.3      7.2      0.0    790.8      0.2
Maintenance        16218.0      7.4    762.5      0.9  18978.5      5.5
Bul ldings       14734.0      6.7    18.0       0.0  14747.0      4.8
Equipment         1482.0      0.7    749.6      0.8   2231.5      0.7
Uniforfs               0.0      0.9      0.0      9.0      9.0      0.0
Welfore Services   4224.2       1.9   1206.9      1.8   5431.1      1.8
ICASE             4224.2      1.9   1206.9      1.3   6431.1      1.8
Fellowships          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Other               2789.0      1.3  2196.6       2.5   4984.5      1.6
------- -------------------------------------------------
TOTAL             218847.9   100.0  89636.8    100.0 808188.7   100.0
0.0               0.0               0.0



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
MOE BUDGET GROWTH 1982-86
(CV ESeC. '000)
C:EDBt3OT.VXI
1962                   198                   1884                1965                     1980
AV. AIUSML
PERCENT.             PERCENT               ?ECNT                  PERCENT              PERC0NT  GH. RATE
ADMIN.           81,516.62        18.8   84,897.44    14.0    85,54.89    11.1   5,861.54          15.0    4,9.7S        14.9        14.0
EBE              120,562.78       52.8  188,581.84    68.4   167,864.10    49.8  181,96.18         47.2   166,9.96    45.1            8.35
EBC              42,475.98        18.6   48,897.8     17.5    ",682.04    19.9    1,7m." 91.1    78,82.84    19.9                    14.05
EB and EBC       188,628.59       71.4  177,469.89    79.9   220,926.0      69.2  222,7".97        65.8   289,171.79    65.1         19.13
ES               19,79S.15         8.7   21,949.49     8.8    82,882.66   1l.8   87,097.84         10.9    42,972.96    11.7         21.41
PRXMARY T.T.      2,718.48         1.2    4,996.69     1.6      4,422.09     1.4    2,811.89        9.7      2,877.89     0.0        -8.15
TECHNICAL ED.     7,478.24         3.8    8,o86.e      8.2    10,97S.e       8.4    9,898.S         2.9    19,519.00      2.9         8.95
SECONARY TEACHER  2,e68.e2         1.2    2,340.49     9.9      2,758.*0     .9    8,a0.69          1.2      4,470.20     1.2        18.85
NON-FORMAL ED.     1,215.28        0.5    1,872.069     .5    11,54.9       8.6   11,614.29        8.4    18,169.28      8.0        01.43
TOTAL            228,418.09     19.6  259,146.22   150.0   819,MB.5    $93.0  841,987.75         168.3   867,596.42   I86.6        12.680
---    -- ul-r -- -   -- l/l l-iAi_^Uii
SI



ANNEX 10
- 50 -                                     PI          of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
UNIT COSTS OF EDUCATION 1982-86
UNIT COSTS (CY Esc. '9)
GROWTH RATE
1902    1988    1984    1985   1980B 1986 Rev             1982-1988B
B!E   2.47    2.96    8.88        3.41    3.41    4.S0               0.409
EKC    5.65    5.67    7.48    6.90    7.72    9.40                  8.609
EBE.EBC    2.69    8.85    8.90       3.92    4.11     5.80              9.20S
ES     -       7.20      -       ?.47     -        -
UNIT COST AS PERCENT OF OW PER CAPITA
1982    1988    1984    1985   19868  1986 Rev
USE     MI.1X   10.2%    9.7X    9.93    8.3X   11.93
ESC    22.63   19.5X   21.98    18.23   10.8X   22.9%
ESE.EBC    11.6%   11.6X   11.63   10.4%   10.08   12.9X
ES      NA    24.7%       NA    19.7X      NA
UNIT COSTS (183 CV Eec. '966)
GROMH RATE
1982    1988    1984    1986   1988  1986 Rev             1962-1988
EK     2.99    2.96    2.92    2.72    2.62    8.88                 -4.29%
OC    6.72    5.67    6.56        5.60    6.70    6.986             -4.01%
USE.SC    8.50    8.85    8.47    8.18    8.98    3.92                  -8.48%
in      NA    7.20        NA    5.96       NA        -



ANNEX 10
T -
51                                        Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
UNIT COSTS OF BASIC EDUCATION
(CV Esc. 'OOO)
UNIT              UNIT              UNIT
EBE   COST        EBC   COST      EBE+EBC COST
Emoluments        188487.9      8.9  81897.9       8.6 270245.0      4.6
Teachers        165495.0      8.4  81607.1       8.5 227102.1      8.9
Administrators   22942.9      0.6  20200.0       2.1  48143.7      0.7
Housing              090       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Materials           1816.6      0.0   3413.5       0.4   5029.0      0.1
School               O.0      *.0   1466.0       0.2   1456.9      0.9
OfTice            1615.6      0.0   1958.5       0.2  $874.0       9.1
Travel              2811.9      0.0    142.8       8.0   2464.2      0.0
Rent                8968.4      0.1       7.2      0.0   8900.6      9.1
Schools           2299.8      0.0       0.0      0.0  2299.6       0.0
OffIco             768.6      0.0       7.2      0.0    760.6      0.0
Maintenance        16216.9      0.8    762.5       9.1  16978.5      0.8
BuIlding.        14784.0      0.8      18.0      0.0  14747.9      0.3
EquIpoent         1482.0      O.0    749.5       0.1   2231.5      0.0
Uniforms               O.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      g.9      0.0
Welfare Services    4224.2      0.1   1209.9       0.1   6431.1      9.1
ICASE             4224.2      9.1   1208.9       9.1   6481.1      0.1
Fellowships          0.9  .0          0 9.       0.9       . 00    0.0
Other               2789.0      0.1   2195.5       0.2   4964.5      0.1
TOTAL             218847.9      4.6  89535.8       9.4 808168.7      5.8



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
Primary Education Upgrading Project
Structure of the Education System Showing Proposed EBI Structure
GENERAL EDUCATION                                                             HGHER EDUCATION
B3ASIC                         SECONDARY                      (Abroad)
PRE-                                                                     _ 
SCHOOL             PRIMARY                 GENERAL      COMPLEMENTARY        _               I
-[ 7 | 8                  |                     9 SECONDARY
SCHOOL
* NOTE THAT PREVIOUSLY  VOCATIONAL AND                           TEACHERS
THERE WAS A STRUCTURAL              TECHNICAL EDUCATION
DIVISION BETWEEN (1-4)
AND (5-6).
_[    <       ~~~TRAINING    
PRIMARY                        CENTER
TEACHER
TRAINING                                     3
0
INDUSTRIAL AND                  
COMMERCIALZ
CENTER FOR 
WOMEN
7 a1 9h 
ADULT EDUCATION__
CONTINtJING EDUCATION, VOCATIONAL TRAINING_- 
AND COMdMUNITY CENTERS
cakW3 128 t-2



_ 53 -                  ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
THE STRUCTURE OF THE INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION
Background
1.        Cape Verde has achieved over 1002 participation of the relevant
school-age population in the first four years of primary education, but the
quality of education is low. The Government is aware of this and has
initiated action to improve curriculum, teaching materials and teacher
training. The Government's efforts are, however, frustrated by weak
management and physical capabilities. Curriculum and materials development
is carried out by untrained staff in an office shared with the Planning Unit
of the MOE; teacher training is run in classrooms borrowed from primary
education schools in Praia, the capital, and Mindelo. Consequently, the
results of Government efforts are unsatisfactory.
2.        The project would support the Government's efforts in improving
curriculum and teaching materials as a means of improving the quality and
efficiency of education. In order to ensure efficient use of scarce human
and material resources, consistency between curriculum and materials devel-
opment, and teacher training objectives, these activities would be estab-
lished under the same organizational structure in the Institute of Education
to be established under the project. The Institute, which would be located
in Praia, would be non-residential with a capacity for 210 student teachers.
The objectives of the Institute would be tot (a) contribute to policy formu-
lation on teacher training, curriculum and teaching materials development;
(b) develop and run pre-service and in-service teacher training programs;
(c) plan and develop/revise primary school curriculum; (d) organize and
coordinate the preparation of textbooks and other teaching materials,
including instructional aids and radio programs; (e) develop and monitor the
use of tests for primary school pupils; and (f) develop a capacity for
monitoring and evaluating the education process and educational innovation.
Description
3.        The Institute would function under the Director-General of Educa-
tion of the MOE with a director who would be in charge of two Departments.
The Teacher Training Department which would be responsible for both pre- and
in-service teacher training programs, and the Instructional Materials Depart-
ment responsible for curriculum, textbooks, educational radio programs and an
Evaluation Unit.
4.        The Teacher Training Department vtould design, organize and run all
teacher training programs for the MOE. At its inception, the department
would run two pre-service programs. The first, for ninth grade graduates,
would be for two years with a total enrollment of 180 students. The objec-
tives of this program would be to ensure mastery of the basic subjects and



54 -                     ANNEx 12
Page 2 of 5
acquisition of professional teaching skills appropriate to basic education
school conditions in Cape Verde. The second would be a one-year program for
eleventh grade graduates wi.h an annual enrollment of 30 students. Because
these students would have a stronger academic background compared to the
ninth grade graduates, emphasis would be placed more on development of
teaching skills, for which one year would be adequate, than on strengthening
of basic education. It is expected that as secondary education is expanded
and improved there would be adequate numbers of students to allow expansion
of enrollment in the one-year program, which would gradually replace the
two-year program and reduce the average costs per graduate teacher.
5.        The in-service teacher training programs of the Institute would
cover upgrading courses in basic subjects, introduction and orientation of
teachers to improved methods and materials, and refresher courses to enrich
teacher experiences. Initially, the in-service programs of the Institute
would be geared to upgrade the skills of currently unqualified teachers
required for project activities. Specifically, programs would be run (a) for
teachers in Santa Cruz to prepare them for the first-phase implementation of
the reform (Annex 12); (b) to familiarize all Cape Verdian teachers with the
new textbooks and teaching materials for the reform; and (c) for unqualified
basic education teachers to upgrade their skills to teach in the new EBI
structure (Annex 11).
6.        The Curriculum and Instructional Materials Department would com-
prise the following units: (i) Curriculum; (ii) Educational Materials; and
(iii) Evaluation. The Curriculum Unit would be concerned with all curriculum
development necessary for the new EBI systems and would continue to work on
curriculum revision and an evaluation after the new system is established.
The Materials Development Unit would consist of an educational materials and
technology group. The Materials Unit would organize and coordinate the
design and preparation of all textbooks and teaching aids to be financed
under project, and design, develop and produce teaching aids for use in
schools and include the Educational Technology Unit. The Educational Tech-
nology Unit would develop out of the existing radio educational group and
would produce and arrange broadcast of all radio educational programs and
introduce necessary educational technology. The Evaluation Un.t would be
responsible for designing and administering with the help of the inspectorate
standardized tests for monitoring and evaluating student achievement and for
monitoring and evaluating educational process. Initially, this unit would be
the Coordination Unit for the first-phase implementation in Santa Cruz and
would be responsible for coordinating project activities between the MOE, the
Santa Cruz inspectorate office, the schools and the Institute of Education.
It will also deliver all tryout materials, assist in evaluation activities in
the schools and make sure that project activities are properly implemented.
7.        Although the new buildings for the Institute would not be completed
until 1991, activities in the project which would eventually come under the
responsibility of the Institute would start prior to that. Initially, the
Institute would operate as a conceptual entity with a core staff employed
under the project. Staff for the various departments of the future Institute
would therefore be trained early in the project to undertaske in-service
teacher training, curriculum and materials development and evaluation tasks
under the project. The Deputy Project Director, who would have a profile
similar to that required for the director of the Institute, would coordinate



- 55 -                      ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 5
the work of this group during the early part of the project or until they are
formally appointed to the Institute. It is expected that the Deputy Project
Director would become Director of the Institute, but in order to ensure that
the right candidate is selected, his performance would be evaluated during
the project prior to his confirmation. The proposed staffing of the
Tnstitute is shown on page 5 of this Annex.



- 56 -                                    ANNEX 12
Page  4of5
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION - PROPOSED STAFFING AND COSTS
s       sSalary.      s Toto;l  aTotl        SsTel
STAFF           t lAG!E :Allo.noeo   t Number  :Sslorlws   :Annual
POSITION         s LEVEL  %per month    s  ot   s:Pr  nonth  sSlaery
I c Ece.ino   t Staff  acY Eos. I'  C Egm .0
PRE-SERVICE TRAININs:s                                       s            s
Dlrector                  s       sIII :   29.03        1 :      29.50 s    84Q.01
Profesor                  s  C    s        28.50 s      1        * 28.50 a    262.08
Profesoor                 s0 D             22.70        5 :    118.50:    1862.80
Professor                 s  E    s        19.9C s      7 :    189.65 s   1676.50
I-EXCE TRAIIMN:              s                               s
Coordinator               s  BS           27.85 s       1 s      27.85 s    829.20
:CURCIL    MATRI ALS DEV:   s        s            s         s
Coordinator               s  S    s        24.U5:       1 :      24.S: S      2.20
Portugu                   s  C    s        28.5 :       1 :      28.50:      212.09
Matheatlos                s  C    s        28.50        1        28.50:      2M2."5
Integrated Sclince        s  C    s       28.50 s       2        47s   :     504.0
Teahing Mste.Speclst.     I  C    s        28.50 s      1        28.50 s    282.9
Domenetrtor               s  0    s        16.49        1 s      13.40 s    220.50
Radio Edueation           s  0    s        22.70 s      1       22.70 s    272.40
EWLUATION  I T                        s             s 
Coordlnaor                s  es            27.85 s      1:       27.85:      820.20
Materlalo Evoluator       :  C            28.C0 :    0.6 :       11.7S s    141.00
Tot Development At.       :  E             21.50 s      1 :      21.50 a    269.21
ADDMINSRTION:                         3*S3
Adan Asst/Accountnt       :  I    s        15.55         1 s    15.55 1s6.66
lcy Studwnt Atelar            L    t       12.75 s      1:       12.75 s    15.0
Clerk                         L    :       12.75:       2s       25.50       808.50
Typist                    tp                9 .010      2:       19.20       289.40
Driver                    t  Q    :        8.9:         2s       17.50       218.50
Cleanor                   :  T    :        6.96:        2:       18.50 a     166.50
_essenger                 a  T             6.90a        1:        6.00        0.40
mn                        :  R    :        0.20 a           s     6.29 :      08.40
LOGISTICAL SUPPORT:          s        s 
Library AsItant           s  Fo            21.20:       1:       21.20 s    264.40
Reproraphic Opolot.       :  J             14.40        1:       14.40 a    1n.8s
Audi-viwsl Technician     s  K             12.75:       1       12.75 s    158.51
TypingPool                5  p             9.68:        S        2a.so:      845.66
INSTITUTE TOTAL                                  :   48.5       ?? 8.45    9008.0
a Incl_ludes metly allconesse



57 -                                     ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 5
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION - ARCHITECTURAL WORKSHEET
:CAPA-
: CITY  :NUMBER :AREA IN  SQ4.MTS.
TYPE OF SPACE         :Number : OF   :---------:---------:            REMARKS
of   :UNITS:    PER
:Places :          UNIT  : TOTAL
:TEACHING AREAS
Classroom/Standard                Ba :    8 :       s  :    se0 :                                :
s Clossroom/multipurpose            30       1        as80 :    80 :Audiovisual/lecture
Clssroom/Multipurpose             16      1 :      60 :      50 :Practical work
Science Laboratory                18       1 :      S0 :      s0
Preparation/Storage                        I :      10 :      10
:EDUCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY CENTER
Library                           a0 :    1 :    120 :    120 :With reading room,control and
-                              :       :       :         3         : stock room (10,090 book,)
Professors' Room (proservice):    14       1        70        70 :
Professors" Room (inservice)       a:      1 :      18        18
Workshop/Teaching Materials  :    7        1 s      58        S os
Development
Office/Evaluation                  3       1 :      24        24
Printing Room                      1       1 :      10        10 :Photocopying, stencil
Radio Education:
Studl o                             :    1:        16:       18 :
s Control Room/Storage               1       1         8         8:
: Office                       :    4:       1:       24:       24: :
ArchIves                                   1        10        10:
Conference Room                   18       1:       82      : 82:
s Director's Office                  1       1:       20:       20 :
Administration Office              8:      1:       56        5:
Storage                                                       24 :T.aching materials, office
supplies,etc.
tSERVICES/MAINTENANCE
sHealth Room                          1      1      10 :      10 :With toilet
Kitchenette                                I   1    20 :      20 :With service counter
Maintenance Room                           1        12:       12
Tollets:
Students                                                     60
s Teachers/Staff                                                20
:-----------------------------:-- ----- --:----    -------
*  Subtotal Not Area                                          1090:
s  Areas for Circulation/Walls:  85.0X of Not Area             882
Total Area                                                1472
*   Building Construction Cost/sq... (US8'000)                0.26
Total Building Construction Cost                     :d7.80
Site Development Cost:        1650  of Building Co,o     55.18
:                 ==_: =:
TOTAL CIVIL WORKS BASE COST                               423.08 
:--------------------------                             :-
Arch/Engr Consultant Fees "     10.0% Civil Works Cost     42.81



- 58 -                      ANNEX 13
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF THE SIX-YEAR BASIC EDUCATION SYSTEM
Introduction
1.        The six-year basic education system would be developed by
preparing the new curriculum, teaching materials, appropriate pedagogical
methods and new policies for promotions and examinations, and implementing
and evaluating these new materials and policies in the district of Santa
Cruz. The district of Santa Cruz is about an hour's drive from Praia, the
capital, and contains about 33 EBE (first cycle) schools, and 1 EBC (second
cycle) school with a combined pupil enrollment of about 3800 or 6? of total
enrollment in basic education (about 3500 at the EBE level). School
quality, pupil and teacher profiles, and geographic distribution of schools
in this district are similar to those in other districts in the country.
The results of the pilot tests in this region are therefore expected to be
representative of the country as a whole, and its close proximity to Praia
would make it easy to monitor and evaluate this phase at reasonable costs.
DescriRtion
2.        The six-year inte?rated basic education system.   The objectives
of the new six-year integrated basic education system (EBI) would be to
equip basic education graduates with the skills of numeracy and literacy,
and an awareness of the social and physical environment. In contrast to
the current two-tier structure, basic education would be provided in a six-
year unitary system with a curriculum based on mathematics, Portuguese,
social studies and science. Teachers would be trained to teach in all the
six grades of basic education and to use multiple-grade teaching methods
which, by allowing the combination of different grades in one class,.would
make it more efficient to have grades 5 and 6 in villages where there are
too few pupils to make up a full-size class of 36. Consequently, access to
six years of basic education would be increased and both teachers and
physical facilities would be used more efficiently.
3.        In order to prepare the ground for the introduction of the new
system in Santa Cruz, a baseline study of the district would be undertaken
in 1988. The study would cover student, teacher and population character-
istics, school organization, including use of multiple grade methods and
the shift system, promotion, repetition and drop-out patterns and the
physical conditions and distribution of school classrooms. This study
would provide a basis for evaluating the impact of the new system and for
projecting future education needs of the district and the country.
Teachers for Santa Cruz would follow the in-service training course which
would start 1989. Further support would be provided to teachers in Santa
Cruz during implementation by a teacher supervisor who would guide teachers
in the use of the new materials and the use of appropriate teaching
methods.



- 59 -                       ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 3
4.        The curriculum for the new six-year integrated system would be
prepared between September 1987 and May 1988 by subject panels made up of
local subject specialists, supported by short-ternm consultants financed by
the Gulbenkian Foundation. Testing of the new materials in Santa Cruz will
begin in grades 1 and 3 in October 1989 on completion of the draft
curriculum for grades 1-6 in mathematics, Portuguese, social studies and
science, by the subject panels. Materials for grades 2 and 4 would be
introduced in October 1990 and for grades 5 and 6 in 1991. During the
development phase materials would be prepared and tested lesson-by-lesson
in the schools in a preliminary mimeograph version. After each lesson has
been tried out in the classroom the materials would be revised as
appropriate and the program for the grade would be put together at the end
of the school year. Introduction of multiple grade teaching methods and
more efficient use of the shift system would start in 1991 in grades 1 and
2 after the new materials have been used in these grades for at least one
year. These new teaching methods would then be expanded to other grades in
ensuing years on the same ptinciple.
5.        Examinations, promotions and repetition  The project would intro-
duce new testing instruments designed both to monitor student achievement
and provide relevant information for evaluation of the education process.
In addition, automatic promotion would be introduced in grades 1, 3 and 5
and it is expected that as the efficiency of education improves, rules for
repetition would be relaxed, leading to a fall in drop-out rates. Tryout
of the tests and automatic j.romotion measures would also first be made in
Santa Cruz.
6.        The second cohort of grade 1 pupils to receive the new materials
in Santa Cruz would be promoted automatically in June, 1991. They would
first be tested at the end of grade 2 in June 1992, at the end of grade 4
in 1994, and finally, at the end of grade 6 in 1996. Automatic promotion
would start nationwide in grade 1 in 1992, in grades 3 and ' in 1994 and
1996, respectively. These and other cohorts would be monitored and
evaluated to determine the effects of the new system on the internal
efficiency of basic education and on the quality of educat.on.
7.        Implementation.  Responsibility for implementation of the Santa
Cruz tests would rest primarily with the Institute of Education working
under the Director-General of Education. The Curriculum and Teaching
Materials Unit of the Institute would be responsible for preparing the
curriculum and teaching materials for the project, including the radio
programs for in-service teacher training. The Evaluation Division of the
Institute would design and administer the new pupils' tests to be used in
grades 2, 4 and 6 and would plan and supervise both formative and summative
evaluation of project materials and activities. A Santa Cruz Project
Coordination Unit would be established in the Institute during the project
to coordinate activities among the MOE, the IE and the Inspectorate office
and schools in Santa Cruz. It would monitor preparation of curriculum and
teaching materials, deliver tryout materials to schools, ensure that
project activities are properly implemented and assist in project evalua-
tion. The Santa Cruz Inspectorate Office, strengthened with an additional
inspector and operational funds, would coordinate project activities in the
district.



SEPiUIIC  AF CPE VERNE
PMo    EUCA'O   UFNRns PJECT
Table 101. QEEOPOTF  INEOTED USEC 01JCATION SYSTEN - SAMTA CRLZ
ltliled COst Table
(C.V.ESCUDS 1000)
QUatity                                                     D2:e
Unit 1987 1s8 1989 190 1M91 192 1M   Total Unit Cost  1997   183   199   I9P     1991    092  1993 Total
1. iwESThEN  COSTS
A  Fn                                                  -        -     -     -     -     -     -  -             -    194      -       -      -      -    -     194
3. EWIP-                                                    --T                             -                  -             -      -       -      -    - -85
C. TEAOWS NATERIALS AND SIPPLIES                       -        -     -     -     -     -     -  -             -      -  2.936       -      -      -    -  29936
D. TRAINI   N USE OF        IOOKS                      -    -        -     -     -     -     -   -             -  1t477      -      -       -      -    -   1l477
E. TRAI        M    C CUIICUR   STA                    -        -     -     -     -     -     -  -         1.332      -      -       -      -      -    -   19332
F. GIMT M1 FO NIIN COSLTAITS                           -  2.5  1.5    1    1    1    1      9      697.8       -  1 720  1,032    69      68    6    688   5S502         8
8. SoilT TON FIEI9N CNLTAMTS                           3    -        -     -     -     -     -  3  687.8  2,063       -      -       -      -      -    -   2.63 
n. LOAL CONIILTANTS                                    -   72   72   60   60   24    -   289        23.5       -  1692  1.692  1,410  1,410    564    -   6768
t. LOCAL CSITITS                                      70   9       -      -     -     -     -   168  23.5  1,645  2M303      -      -       -      -    -   3.94
J. PROJECT ANINISTRATION                               -    -                                                           - -    -  -    90  80     C 90  45    446
Total INUESTNT COSTS                                                                                          5.040  9.351  5,740  2.178  2.178  1,332  m    25.t2
II. RECUM      COSTS
A. SAAIES OFI lBW         CaRICUII STAFF              -        -     -     -     -     -     -            1          -      -      -       -      -    -   1
Total REMRIT COSTS                                                                                            1,866      -      -       -      -               It- 18"
tOal                                                                                                           6,906  89351  5.740  2,178  21781,332  7M2  27.418
August 14, 1997  17:01



ANNEX 14
Page I of 5
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
IN-SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING
A.   Background
1.        Although about 84Z of the teachers in the first cycle basic
education in Cape Verde are untrained and unable to adequately teach the
prescribed curriculum, in-service teacher training is inadequate, seriously
affecting the quality of education in schools. In the last few years, the
Inspectorate from its base in Praia, the capital, working through district
sub-inspectors and in-service coordinators has established study groups in
each of the 72 pedagogical zones in the country. These groups, led by
qualified or experienced teachers meet regularly to assist less qualified
teachers and run seminars and workshops sponsored by the Inspectorate. This
structure was strengthened in some districts by the appointment of
teacher-supervisors who give additional technical support to study groups.
In addition, the Inspectorate working with the educational broadcasting unit,
is also running a course on child development for teachers and publishes a
newsletter. 'Escola Activa", for teachers which is distributed to study
groups for information to suggest training activities and provide material
for discussion.
2.        These efforts at in-service training make a valuable contribution
to improving the quality of teachers, but their scope is much too limited to
meet the needs of the vast pool of unqualified teachers. Expertise and
funding to prepare and produce teaching materials are generally unavailable
and volunteer teachers are often unwilling to undertake complex or demanding
duties without compensation. Consequently, training is organized on an ad
hoc basis with limited material support or quality control.
Proposed In-service Training Programs
3.        The objectives of the four-year in-service teacher training compo-
nent would be to upgrade the professional skills of all EBE teachers to teach
the new integrated six-year basic education curriculum. The first three
years would be directed at about 1,000 unqualified teachers ("professores do
posto") who make up about 85X of the teaching force at this level and would
be designed to provide mastery in the subjects of basic education and appro-
priate teaching skills. The fourth year would be to equip those who succeed
in the first phase, as well as currently qualified teachers, to teach the
full six-year curriculum of the new EBI system. Instruction would be based
on modules presented through self-instructional booklets, radio broadcasts
and one-day study group sessions in the pedagogical zones. A package
containing the subject content, written and practical exercises and
self-evaluative instruments to serve as learning guides and to check for
comprehension and retention, would be prepared individually for each module.
The radio broadcasts would provide direct access to teachers by the
in-service teacher training staff in Praia, to elaborate on important



ANNEX 14
- 62 -                         Page 2 of 5
training points, to inform teachers of interesting experiences in the
different parts of the country, and to respond to feed-back from teachers.
The fortnightly study group sessions would be used to provide additional
guidance to in-service student-teachers and for distributing training
materials receiving feed-back from and evaluating teachers. Evaluation tests
would be prepared by the staff in Praia separately from other teaching
materials and would be administered and scored by the group leaders at the
end of each module. Teachers who fail the test on the first occasion would
be allowed to repeat during the interval between the two modules.
4.        In order to facilitate the training program the modules for the
first phase would be prepared prior to the start of the in-service program.
Subsequent modules and radio programs would be prepared during the program
with enough lead time to avoid delays in distributing the materials. A
schedule for materials preparation is shown in Annex 22.
5.        The program would be designed for four years and it is expected
that about 70Z of the teachers would complete the program in the required
time despite the low level of education of some teachers and the risk of
drop-outs. Teachers who do not successfully complete the course in the
prescribed time and unqualified teachers who joined the teaching service
after the start of the program will be given opportunities to receive
training after this initial period by the in-service divisions of the
Institutes and will receive the prescribed incentives if they complete the
course successfully. Unqualified teachers who do not successfully complete
at least the first phase of the course would not be guaranteed employment.
Once the majority of teachers have been upgraded, the in-service department
of the Institute would concentrate on refresher courses, orientation to new
materials and teaching innovations.
6.        Successful teachers in the in-service program would receive salary
benefits in recognition of their improved qualifications. Those who succeed
in the first phase would be put on a scale slightly lower than that of
currently qualified first cycle teachers, and those who successfully complete
the four year course would be put on the same scale as qualified EBI
teachers.
7.        Implementation of the in-service training   Implementation of the
in-service training course would be the joint responsibility of the Inspec-
torate-General of Education and future staff of the Institute of Education.
The former, working with the regional inspectors and district education
offices, would nominate district in-service coordinators who, in turn, would
appoint study group leaders to organize and lead study groups in the peda-
gogical zones. Study group leaders would be drawn from both qualified EBE
and EBC teachers. The curriculuim and materials division of the Institute of
Education would be responsible for preparing the modules, teaching materials
and radio broadcasts, while the training division would be responsible for
providing instruction to the in-service student teachers. The curriculum of
the program would be prepared in 1988 and the first teacher materials
completed by December 1988. This would permit an early start of training and
adequate feed-back on materials which could be used to improve preparation of
future packages. Training is scheduled to begin in January 1989 and finish
in December 1991 (Annex 22).



ANNEX 14
-63- _Page 3 of 5
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
PROPOSED SALARY SCALES FOR TEACHERS
(CV Esc)
Monthly
Category                             Letter              Salary
1. Unqualified teachers to be
upgraded:  First Phase -                         H                12,000
L               12,750
J               14,400
I               15,500
Second Phase -                        J               14,400
I               15,500
G               18,900
F               19,950
2. Graduates from new Institution                    J                14,400
1               15,500
G               18,900
F               19,950



- 64 -                        ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 5
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
NEW CATEGORIZATION AND SALARY SCHEDULE
FOR PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHERS
1987
(CV Esc.)
CAUffl3Y                                     f   SAlARY    TRAINZG
Professor de 3nivel 3a classe    G           18,400          High School and
Professor de 3nivel 2a lsse     F           19,950          two years of  wrso de
Professor de 3nlvel 1 a eACUM   E           21,600          Formwao de
Professor de 3"nivel Principal    D          22 ,700         Professores
M*dtor Especial de    clsse      L           12,750          9th Grade and Specil
Mmndtor Especi de 2 classe       X           13 ,600         program of Phys. Ed.
Monitor Especial de 1a classe    J           14,400          or Arts and Crafts
Professor de Ehsino   P3ae classe L          12,750          9th Grade and two years of
Professor de Easino Prim.2 classe J          14,400          Escola do MIagisterio
.Irofessor de Ensino Prim. 1 classe I         15,500
Professor de Ensino PrLm. Ppal.   G          18,900
Prof. de Posto ProfissioraLizado
de 3 clas                        0           10.400          4th Grade and 4 years of
Prof. de Posto Profissioalizado                              escola de Posto Escolar
de e classe                     N           1119250          (discontinued)
Prof. de Posto Profissiorulizado
de    classe                    M            12,000
Prof. de Posto Profissionalizado
Principal                       L            12,750
Professor de Posto Escolar de
3a classe                       S             7,650
Prof. de Posto Escolar 2a classe  R           8,200          6th Grade. No trainling.
Prof. de Posto Escolar 1 classe  Q            9,900
Professor Posto Escolar Ppal.   0            10,400
a) According to Secreto-Lei no. 154/81
b) According to Decreto-Lei no. 74/86
note3:blal



IEPUKIC OF CAE VW
FRIRY EDATIWN URNMIS P"lA
Table 202. PRIN    SCOOL tEAM    9lRAII
Detiled Cost Table
(C.Y.ESCUDOS '000)
Buantitv                                                    Base Costs
Unit 1987 198M 1M   19  191 1992 1993 Total Unit Cost 1987  1998   198M  190   19.l             IM     1M  Total
1. INW    COSTS
A. EUIPIUT                                     -                                   -                 -1,522    380         ,       - _     _        1,902
D. DS NO TEAMiING PTERIALS                                    -    -           -     - -     -     -   -    -  1Y295  1,295   1,M        612  612   5,10@
C. SHl  TENI FRIGN CISLTMTS                    -    3  1.5  1.5    -    -    -     6       667.8     -  24063  1,032  1,032        -       -    -   4v127
D. SlW    TWI FELLOVSHIPS                     2    -         -     -     -     -    -  2   253.4  507       -      -      -       -        -    -     507               g
Total INESTIEN  COSTS                                                                                 507  3.595  2,707  24327  129M       612 612  11,644
-2=  2=22        2     2== =5 =. ::222  222  225
II. RECRUT COSTS
A. lncrgul Deeratirn Costs                   -         -     -     -     -     -     -  -         231    462    768    766      768     146  148   3i295
Do SIEKS OF UPAED T          SDW              -        -     -     -     -     -     -  -           -      -      -      - 38,425  17,039    -  5t464
Total RE1EIIT COSTS                                                                                   231    462    766    768  399194  179187  148 S6759
Total                                                                                                  738  4,047  3,475  3Y0M5  40,48   17979   760 71h402
=22  ::     2:2 222222 22222=2S 2=222  322*322
t P.
Aust 14U  1987  17:01
' olI!



ANNEX 15
- 66 -                      Page 1 of 6
b3:annez9
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UP'GRADING PROJECT
PRE-SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING PROGRAM 1I
(1-year Program)
SUBJECTS AND WEEKLY HOURS
Program A              Program B
Subjects/Programs and Seminars    1st    2nd    Total   1st    2nd    Total
Portuguese (a)                       6              6       6       6     12
Social Studies (a)                           4      5       6       4     10
mathematics                          6       4     10       4              4
Science (a)                          4       6     10               4      4
Visual Education                             2      2               2      2
Health Education                     2              2       2              2
Child Development                    4              4       4              4
Psychology of Learning               6              6       6              4
Teaching Strategies and Methods              4      4               4      4
Sociology Education                         4       4               4      4
School Management                    2              2       2              2
Teaching Practice                    4       6     10       4       6     10
Total                            34     34      68      34     34      68
(a) Includes the corresponding teaching methodology.



ANNEX 15
- 67 -                     Page 2 of 6
b3:annex8
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
PRU-SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING PROGRAM I
(2-Year Program)
SUBJECTS AND WEEKLY HOURS
Subiects/Semesters                     1st     2nd     3rd      4th     Total
Portuguese (a)                           6       6        6       6      24
Social Studies                           6       6                6      18
Mathematics (a)                          6       6        4              16
Science (a)                              4                4       4      12
Visual Education                                          4       4       8
Health Eduation                                           4               4
Child Development                        6                                6
Psychology of Learning                                            4       4
Instruction Design and Evaluation                6                        6
Teaching Strategies and Methods                           6               6
Sociology of Education                           6                        6
Theory of Education                      4                                4
School Management                                                 2       2
Teaching Practice                        2       4        6       8      20
Total                                34      34      34       34     136
(a) Includes the corresponding teAching methodology.



ANNEX 15
- 68  -                                     Page 3 of 6
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER REQUIREMENTS
C:PRIMTCI4.WK1---
YEAR POPULATION  ENROLLMENT  ENROLLMENT       ANNUAL         ANNUAL  ATTRITION   TOTAL
7-12         2.SX       RATIO     TEACHER    ADDITIONAL        RATE   ANNUAL
2.0OK                         REQUIREMENT  REQUIREMENTS           8% TEACHER
as                          REQUIREMENTS
1985      57844       68,792        98.62       1,578
1980      68797       58,212        99.00       1,617             89         47        87
1987      69973      5r,:687        99.49       1,867             40         49        89
1988      81172       81,169        99.98       1,899             41         so        91
1989      62398       62,888       100.47       1,741             42         51        98
1990      68644       64,256       100.98       1,785             44         62        96
1991      04917       65,861       101.48       1,829             46         64        98
1992      88216       67,608       101.96       1,876             46         66       101
1993      67589       69,196       102.46       1,922             47         so      103
1994      8889g       70,925       102.95       1,970             48         68      100
1995      70288       72,699       103.40       2,019             49         69       108
1990      71878       74,516       103.97       2,070             50         61      111
1997      73107       78,879       104.48       2,122             62         62       114
1998      74689       78,288       104.99       2,176             58         64       11t
1999      76080       80,248       106.60       2,229             64         65       120
2000      77681       82,262       108.02       2,285             s0         87       123
2001      79133       84,808       108.64       2,342             67         69       128
2002      80716       86,418       107.08       2,400             s9         70       129
2003      82330       88,676       107.69       2,460             80         72       182
2004      83976       90,791       108.11       2,522             62         74       135
2005      85658       93,060       108.04       2,685             68         70       139
2006      87309       93,887       109.18       2,660             a6         78       142
2007      89116       97,771       109.71       2,716             68         79      148
2008      90899      100,218       110.25       2,784             68         81       149
2009      92717      102,220       110.26       2,839             58         84       189
2010      94671      104,264       110.26       2,890             67         85       142
2011      98468      108,860       110.25       2,954             58         87       14S
2012      98392      108,477       110.25       3,018             69         89       148
013     100360      110,640      110.26        8,074             80         go      161
2014     102387      112,869       110.25       8,185             61         92       164
2016     104414      116,116       110.25       8,198             88         94      157
2010     10B602      117,419       110.25       3,262             64         98      160
2017     108832      119,787       110.25       8,327             65         98       168
2018     110805      122,162       110.25       3,893             67        100      100
2019     113021      124,608       110.26       8,481             68        102       170
2020     115282      127,090       110.25       8,589             09        104       178
2021     117587      129,640       110.25       8,601             71        108       177



-69 -                                  ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 6
C:PERSTCST
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
PRE-SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING - PER STUDENT COSTS
1.        The total annual per-student costs of the New Institute over
project life are estimated at about US $1200. Of this, 26? is accounted
for by the annualized investment costs, mainly related to the cost of
construction of the buildings of the Institute, which alone muount. to
about 20? of the total annual per-student costs. The remaining 742 are
annual per-student recurrent costs estimated at about US $900, compared to
US $1130 in 1986; this reduction is to be achieved despite the higher
quality educational inputs planned for the new Institute, because the
higher 1986 per-student costs were the result of inefficient use of
resources and the generous government fellowships program. For example,
the staff student ratio, which in 1986 was 1:5, will be about 1:19 in the
new Institute, implying a reduction of about 372 in the salary element of
per-student cost. Similarly, the fellowships cost element was high because
of the Government's policy to award fellowships or study-leave with full
pay to all student-teachers. These high unit costs would also be reduced
by about 23? largely because of the Government's decision to lower the
average cost of fellowships by 50? through the introduction of new award
criteria tailoring the fellowship level to individual student requirements
rather than granting them in fixed amounts irrespective of need. In
addition, the establishment of the teacher in-service training course would
eliminate the need to provide full-time study leave. While the salary and
fellowship components of per student costs would be reduced, in order to
improve efficiency, the new system would emphasise the provision of
adequate educational supplies available for teacher training by raising
their share of the Institute's budget from 1.92 of the per-student costs in
1986 to 10X.
2.        The costs per graduate for the two-year program would rise by
about 7X. This rise in costs would be more than offset by the increased
quality and productivity of the new teachers.
3.        Finally, total annual recurrent costs for primary school teacher
training would more than double with the New Institute from US $75,000 to
US $190,000 because of the trebling in the enrollment from 66 in 1986 to
210. These increased costs have been included in the budget projections
for the MOE discussed during appraisal, and are consistent with expected
growth of the MOE budget.



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPORADDIG PROJECT
PRE-SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING -COSTS
NEW INSTITUTE- ENROLLMENT:210                         11988 PROGRAM-ENROLLMENT:68                      I
tMIT    UNIT                                     UNIT    UIT                I
I                                             AIOdUAISED    COSTS   COSTS   PERCENT              ANUALXSED  COSTS   COSTS   PEICENT
9                                BASE COST   COSTS          ESC.CV   US *    DISTR.  IBASE COST COSTS         ESC.CY   US O    DISTR.  I
ICATEOWW                                                    (C'66)                     I('69)
JINVESTT COSTS:                                                                        I                                                 g
ICONSTRUCTION                           8264         2758.5    18.1  181.43    15.0 I    -             -          -        -       -
FRN1rE                                   2664         807.0      1.9   26.11       2.21      -         -          -        -       -    I
IERUIPMENT                              8396          596.4      2.8   89.16       3.21      -         -          -        -       -    I   -
TEOOGICAL ASSISTANCE                                    6.       6.       .            1    _                                            
I FELLIUSHIIS                          10136          049.6     4.6   62.45       6.2 1    -           -         -        -        -
ISU-TOTAL                               49680          4766    22.4  830.16       25.5      -          -          -        -       -
IRERW   COSTS:                                                                         I                                                 I
ISALARIES                                 262          6262    25.1  848.09    28.6 I        28          269    809.5   46.64    48.8 
OI  TIGNAL COSTS                        1679           1879      8.9  128.57    10.2         o1g          1N      1.5   26.98       1.9 1
ST17ST-TEAOHER FELLOWSHIPS              6561           661    81.2  431.58    85.7   128                268      48.7   62-48    49.8 1
I                                                                                      I                                                 |
ISU-TOTAL                              1i7m2          18762    65.2  061.19    74.5          597         5807    81.8 11".8    1.6 1
I                                                                                      I                                                 I
ITOTAL                                  8"81          184i2       88    121U    1".6         5897        5897    8.8  11.".39    IN.$
I                                                                                                                                       I
COSTS PER GRADUATE US 0:2 YEAR PROGRM               2426.70                                                   2258.79
1 YEAR PRORM                1210.85                                                      -
INTEREST RATE PERIOD(YEARS) 
ASSWIITIONS FOR ANJWALISED COSTS:-                        X U:
CONTUCTION                                               8       48                                                                     0
R.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4 0                                                                                                    1-
FURNITUR                                                  8      le                                                                     0',
EN~PMENT                                                 8       10
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                     0        6
TRAINING                                                  8      25



EUIC 1 CE VW
PR DWUCTIS WSmINB NOJECT
Table 201Ms PEt CE  TEC   MRIIN
ailed cat Tase
(C.V.ESOUU '000
a . Costs
lUnit 1917 1998 19990 1991 192 1993 Total Uit tCot  1097  1999   199  199    11    1                  1M3  Toal
s=2=   =   = s==     __a_ ==- am- =m   z==t__                                             X=Z -r-s-     0-- .__;s;__c   ___ 5 a
A. SM1  -L.T    T                                        -                     - -    -    -    -                       it g      9       639      -      -  3.196
Be COINCION OF TEAM  tININIG DWITUTE                    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                  -      - 7991  10,654  719?1         -      - 26.635
Ct  MCHI'TECTWU   FEES                                   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                613  1,532   306    306    30         -      -  3.06
a.                                                 -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                   -   7m9      -   1066    7"         -      -  2.664
E. EllUWt.                                              -     -    -    -    -    -      -  -                 -  1,991      -  1sm        400      -      -  3,9S5 
Fe SNOT TON FELLOs                                     26  12   -   -   -   -   -   38             253.4  6#599 3,041       -                             -  929 
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Total INVESTI5T COSTS                                                                                        7M201  7436?  9.95  14,583  10w135       -      - 49t162
I.  CElWT COSTS
At SM.MIES F ISTITUTE OF EUCTIE STAFF                                 -    -           -    -    - -    --                                 - 2        2.653 23O6
t. Inveuntal  "erating Costs                            -   --    -                                          -      -      -                  1729  1.72   3.455
C. Stu&mt Teadurs Fllowhsl                             -    -            -    -            -                 -      -      -       -       - 3874  31574   7749
Total ~ON9I T COSTS                                                                                              -      -      -       -       - 9-36  9.36  1-,5--
Total                                                                                                         79201  79369  9.995  141W  10.135 8.25  89.256  65694
Aut 14. 1997 17:01                                                                                                                                                   I    .



- 72 -
ANNEX 16
Page I of  11
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PRCJECT
TEXTBOOKS
1.        Background.  Parents of Cape Verdean primary school students are
responsible for equipping their children with textbooks and consumable
school materials (e.g. notebooks and pencils), with the Government
subsidizing the needs of the very poorest students who comprise about 40?
of total primary enrollment. Teachers are also responsible for purchasing
their own copies of student textbooks and teachers' guides. It is
estimated that each student can afford only 81 CVEs per year to purchase
textbooks and consumable school materials. The costs of existing primary
school textbooks range from 44 to 348 CVEs (US$0.60-US$5.30! each, while
second-hand books are scarce. Since neither parents nor teachers are able
to afford textbooks, few books are found in classrooms. The existing books
are either imported textbooks published in Portugal, or editions developed
by the Ministry of Education with the assistance of Portuguese publishers
and funded by a grant from NOVIB, a Dutch NGO. Existing textbooks have not
been pre-tested nor evaluated in use, and are generally pedagogically
inappropriate to Cape Verdean educational conditions. Due to the scarcity
of textbooks in classrooms, teachers have been forced to improvise teaching
methods without the use of textbooks as a learning tool, with adverse
consequences on student learning and performance.
2.        Textbooks are distributed by the Federation of School Canteens
(FCCS), a parastatal agency executing educational welfare programs. FCCS
marks up the acquisition costs of books by 40X to cover the administrative
and distribution costs of textbooks to the 21 sales outlets throughout the
islands. A revolving fund for reprinting the books developed under the
NOVIB grant officially exists, and should receive the proceeds from the
sales of books. However, book sales earnings are low due to the high costs
to students, and these proceeds are also spent for local transportation and
handling, as well as the purchase of consumable school materials. The
reprinting of textbooks has thus become impossible under the current
circumstances.
3.        Obiectives.  The textbook component of the project aims to
increase the number of textbooks and teachers' guides in classrooms, to
publish revised editions whose content would correspond with the
educational reform, and to establish a secure source of funding for their
continuing supply. The project would finance the publication of some
430,000 textbooks, whose authors would be local educationalists, some of
whom would have worked on drafting the new curricula for primary education.
Specifically, the textbook component of the project aims to:
(a) provide a three-year supply of basic textbooks and to encourage
the development of a second-hand book market. The proceeds from
the sale of these books would be deposited into a Textbook



ANNEX 16
- 73 -                        Page 2 of 11
Revolving Fund (TRF) managed by the Directorate General of
Education, and used exclusively for the reprinting of textbooks.
Therefore, the book sales accumulated in the TRF, in addition to
the planned increase in the Ministry of Education's annual budget
for teaching materials (para. 3.23), are expected to generate
adequate resources for a continuing supply of textbooks. The MOE
would provide textbooks free to all teachers. The new textbooks
would be available to students beginning 1991 for grades 1 and 3,
1992 for grades 2 and 4, and 1993 for grades 5 and 6 (Annex 22);
(b) reduce the publishing and distribution costs of textbooks.
Textbook pricing calculations and estimated distribution costs
are shown in Table 1 and Table 2 of this Annex. Textbook
distribution would be contracted with EMPA, the parastatal
commodities distribution agency as this agency has been found to
provide the most economical and efficient local warehousing and
distribution services. Sales to students would be handled
through local retailers authorized by the MOE;
(c) improve the content of textbooks and develop local technical
skills in textbook preparation and publishing while creating new
books. The project textbooks would be written by local authors
in accordance with the revised primary education curriculum. The
manuscripts developed would be pilot-tested by the Evaluation
Department of the new Institute of Education. The improved
quality of the textbooks would be maintained in the future by the
availability of local expertise developed under the project, and
through continuous evaluation, the use of educational measurement
instruments, and a study on the use of textbooks;
(d) provide an alternate source of essential and inexpensive school
materials (e.g. notebooks, pencils, erasers) to students. The
project would procure an initial stock of school materials and
sell these at cost to students through the textbook outlets. The
sales proceeds would be deposited into a separate School
Materials Revolving Fund operated in the same manner as the TRF
in order to establish a continuing supply. The MOE would
establish specifications for basic school materials and encourage
local entrepreneurs to take over the supply as the market demand
rises. The MOE would cease its involvement in the direct
procurement of school materials once a competitive market for
appropriate school materials is established.
4.        Publishers for the new books would be selected through an ICB
tender; consumable school materials would be purchased through Unipac, the
UNICEF wholesaler as this system of procurement has been found to be the
most economical and reliable means of acquiring these items. Procurement
would be the responsibilitv of the DGA who would determine needs and order
books every 3-4 years. The DGA would liaise with EMPA on receiving books
and materials and instruct IMPA on the quantities to be stored and to be
distributed to the EMPA local warehouses throughout the islands. The DGA



ANNEX 16
- 74 -                         Page 3 of 11
would establish wholesale and retail prices for those local retailers and
school cooperatives accepted as licensed suppliers by the sub-in-pectorate.
They would be able to withdraw stock from the warehouses on payment into
the revolving fund accounts. Teachers and poor students would receive
books free provided that the Ministry and the school welfare institute also
paid into the accounts. Teachers would be trained in the use of the new
books and educated in their value through the national in-service training
program.
5.        In improving book content, selected publishers woudi work closely
with the materials development unit of the Institute of Education, which
during the Project would comprise teams of authors, materials developer and
designerlillustrators. The joint work would start at the conceptual and
planning stage before the manuscripts were written and would continue with
guidance to the teams of authors as they wrote the manuscripts. The
testing of manuscripts would be planned by the Evaluation Department and
executed in the county of Santa Cruz over a three-year period. (See Annex
22 for the writing, testing, publishing and distribution schedule.)
Revised manuscripts would then be published by the STE publishers with the
assistance of the materials development unit. The Evaluation Department
would start a study of student achievement levels in Santa Cruz which would
continue after the project and supply information to the examinations
section of the Ministry of Education. A concurrent book use study would
supply information to the Curriculum and Materials Development Department
for the eventual revision of the new books.
6.        Coordination and management.  Several Directorates of the MOE,
departments of the Institute of Education, EMPA and the existing teacher
training institute would be involved in the day-to-day management of the
component. The proposed coordination of roles in the major activities is
shown in Table 3. The Director of the Institute of Education would manage
all activities performed by the Institute's four departments, but would be
assisted by a coordination manager since the Institute's activities would
depend upon the completion of activities in other components of the
project.
7.        Textbook and school supplies  revolving funds.  Two separate
revolving funds would be established under this project component: (a) the
Textbook Revolving Fund which would be used exclusively to finance the
reprinting of student textbooks; and (b) the School Supplies Revolving
Fund to be used exclusively to finance the rsplenishment of the stock of
school supplies procured under the project. These funds would be
establisheC. in a local commercial bank, and derived out of the sales of
books and school supplies, respectively. Books and school supplies would
be made more affordable to students by selling these at cost (covering
publishing in the case of books, procurement and delivery costs) to
students. The sales prices of textbooks would be further minimized by
spreading the recovery of printing costs over three years and of editorial
costs over six years. The revolving funds would be managed by the Director
General of Administration of the MOE. Specialist services (three
staffmonths) would be provided under the project to assist the MOE in
establishing appropriate textbook pricing policies, designing the cost
recovery mechanisms and designing and evaluating the operations of
revolving funds established.



-75                              ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 11
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
Table 1:  Textbook Pricing Calculations
After the Project (for 2 reprints)
Add       cost of reprint
cost of origination (divided by 3)
freight and insurance
local distribution
Multiply by annual inflation (either calculated for 3
years and applied
immediately, or added
each year, so that prices
rise each year)
a                Wholesale price
Multiply by 10-15% for retailing
maximum retail price
Possible Prolect book prices (at 1987 prices)
Final prices depend on the results of the publishing tender, EMPA handling,
freight and insurance costs from 1991-93. Meanwhile, the following
wholesale and retail prices (CV Esc) for the pupil's books are indicated:
Unit                                   Wholesale
Reprint    One-third                     Net of    (+10?)
Cost     Origination  Freight  EMPA  Inflation  Retail
Port'guese  1       42            5           3       7        57       63
2      56            5           4       7        65       72
3      58            5           4       7        67       74
4      55            4           4       7        63       69
5      77            8           5       7        92      101
6      76            7           5       7        88       97
Maths        1      39            4           3       7        46       51
2      60            6           4       7        70       77
3      61            7           4       7        72       79
4      55            4           4       7        63       69
5      77            8           5       7        92      101
6      76            7           5       7        91      100
Enu stud    2       93            -           5       7        98      108
3     104            -           6       7       110      121
4     100            -           6       7       106      117
Int sci     5      109           27          9        7      145       160
6     126           27           9       7       162      178



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
Table 2: ESTIISATED TEXTBOOK DISTRIBUTION COSTS
Book Weigh-:(copies/ton)       S000 copies/ton
DISTRIBUTION OF TEXTBOOKS:          Handllng/Distribution Cost:  38032 CV Esc.
1991-92                             1992-93                            1993-94
(Ex Praia)                    X      Tons   Cost(CV Esc.)         X      Tons   Cost(CV Esc.)         X      Tons  Cost(CV Esc.)
--------- - ---- - -                _______________________________-__________--  -----_ - ______
Sal                             2.3X   0.28    10200                2.3%   0.60    17864                2.0%   0.48    17439
Fog*                            9.7%   1.19   41918                 9.7%   2.09   75298                 9.4%   2.27    81961
Maio                            1.4%   0.17      8209               1.4X   0.30   10868                 1.3X   0.31    11336
Doavista                        0.8%   0.10      3648               0.8X   0.17    6210                0.8X   0.19    8976
brave                           1.9%   0.23    8426                 1.%X  0.41    14749                 1.8%   0.44   15895
Santiago:Sta Cruz    )
Sto Catarina)         64.9%   8.78   243473               64.1X   11.88  419962              54.57   13.19  475201
Tarrafal    )
Prala       )
---         -    ----     -          ----     --------- - - ----               ---
TOTAL EX PRAIA:              71.0%   8.74  314874                70.2X   16.12  544942              89.8%   18.89  808808
(Ex Mindelo)
Sto.Antao:Porto Novo    )
Rib ira Grande)      10.8%    1.30   47009               10.3X   2.22   79968                 9.8X   2.37    86449
Paul          )
San Nicolu                     3.1%   0.38    13748                2.9%   0.62   22512                 2.8    0.68    24414
San Vicento                    16.3X   1.88   87853                16.9%   3.43   123427               15.9X   3.86  138637
TOTAL EX MINDELO:            29.0%    3.67   128811              29.1X   6.27   225895               28.EX   8.90   248600
___ - - -____                                                                      __ ____---   - __ ------------- - ----------------------------__
APPROXIMATE LONG-TERM STORAGE REqUIREMENTS:
Books Received          Books Distributed            Books Stored
Nos.     Tons              Nos.    Tons              Nos.     Tons
--------------
1991/92 Praia                75172    16.03             43694    8.74              31478    6.30
Mindolo              30704    8.14              17847    3.57              12857    2.67                                      U'
Total            :05876   21.18              81640   12.81              44338    8.87                                      o
1992/98 Pra)a               124899   24.94              75619   15.12              80668   16.11
mindelo              61891    10.34             81346     6.27             83202    8.64
Total            177838   35.53             107720   21.64             114260   22.85
1993/9 Praia                 80836   18.27              84454    18.89             76989   15.89
Mindol.              3388      6.0              34438    6.90              81726    8.34
Tota             11566)   28.10             120994    24.20            108086    21.81



- 77 -
- - - ANNEX~~ 16
I                      I~~ Page 6 d 11
J             lj  I~~
1~~ ii5 
I . ' i                            J   0 
IS, i                           l      
I   sg is        .   s  S  iia.'   
I                                I_   .  



-78-                                mm33 16
Page 7 of n
REPUBLIC OF WAPs VERDE
PuDIAKY EDUCATION UPGRADINC PROJECT
SPECIFICATIONS OF NEW TEXTBOOKS
No.              Color
Grade                        of                                                      Illustrations
Level     Subject            Pages      Text          Cover     Binding      Format        (2)
PUDids' Books
Grade 1   Portuguese           64         2 (502)         2       2 wires    245 z 172       75
Mathematics          48         2               2       2 wires         a          75
Grade 2   Portuguese           96         2 (50?)         2       2 wires                    50
Mathematics          96         2               2       2 wires                    50
EIvironmental Std.  96          2 (50?)         2       2 wires                    S0
Grade 3   Portuguese           96         1               2       2 wires         *          40
Mathematics         96          2 (SO)         2       2 wires                    50
Grade 4   Portuguese           96         1               2       2 wires                    25
Mathematics          96         1               2       2 wires                    40
Grade S   Portuguese           128        1               2       sewn                       25
Mathematics          128        1               2       seWn                       40
Integrated Science  160         4 ( 32 pp.)    4        sewn                       30
2 (128 pp.)
Grade 6   Portuguese           128        1               2       sewn            *          25
Mathematics          128        1               2       saw                        40
Integrated Science  192         4 ( 32 pp.)    4         emn            *          so
(160 pp.)
Teacherse Books
Phase 1   Portuguese           128        1               1       sewn        210 x 148       5
Mathematices        128         1               1       sewn                       10
Phase 2   Portuguese           128        1               1       sewn            ^           5
Mathematics          128        1               1       sewn                        0
Phase 3   Portuguese           128        1               1       sewn            *           5
Mathematics          128        1               1       sewn            *          10
Technical Arts       192        2               1       sewn       296 x 210       75



- 79 -
ANNEX 16
Page 8 of 11
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
STUDENT BOOK QUANTITiES
(INCL. TEACHERS' COPIES)
SAI       amK            YEAR I  YEAR 2  YEAR S  YEAR 4  YEAR    YEARO   YEAR?
LEVEL    TIT               199W    19       1        1999    191    1992    19"
ADE 1 PORT_UESE I                        O 0     9        9   2219         0       0
AnMTIcs 1              a 9    .9         9       9   221o 9       0        0
OWEAD 2 PORiJOUE5EI            9 o              6            0   a     16         0
MATHETICS 2            0        a        0       a        9   311ls        0
ENVI  STWIES 2         9        9        a       0        a   81193        0
WADE a PORTUSJE  8              0       a        0        0   20563        0       a
MATHEMATICS            9 0      0        0       0   258          0        a
EVRN STUDIES S         a        0   0            f   2            a        0
WDE 4 PORTUGUSE 4               0       0        a        9       9   29188        a
MATHEMATICS 4           9       0        9       0        0   261U 8
EMIROt SUIES 4         9        9        9       9        a   2618         6
ORADE 6 PORlUGUESE 6            0       0        a        9       o        0   18260
MATHEMATICSS           0        0        0       0        a       0   162
INTEQ SCIENE5          a        0       0        0       0        9   182
ORADE 6 PORTUESE S              0 9              0        0       O        O   1940
MATHEATICS 8           o        0        0       9        o       o   19498
INTE SCIENCE6               0       0        0       0            9   194"
TOTAL '-UDENT BOOKS             0       0        0        0  1"9576  1716    11824?
iEAo   WUDE  UANTMTES
L EL        BOOa           YEARI  YAR 2  YEAR S  YEAR 4  YEARS  YER6  YEAR?
IACER      TITLE             1987    1981    1939    lo9    1991    1902    1099
GtADE 1 PORTUUESE 1/2           0        9       0        0       9      47t       O
MAThErMTCS 1/2         0        0       0        0        0     470        9
GRADE 2 PORUOUES 1/2           9       0        0        0       0      026       a
MATHEMATICS 1/2        0        0       0        0              626        0
ENVIRON STUDIES 2      0        0       0        a       0      826        0
ORADE 8 PORTUEU  8/4            9       a        0        a       0      408       0
MATHEMATICS 8/4        a               0                      4
EWNIRON SMIESS         9        a o              6        9     498        9
SWE 4 PORrWJE5 */4             a       0        0   O            a   O34          0
MAThETICS 8/4          0        0       9        0       0      694        a
ENVION STUDIES 4       0   O            0        0        9     S6         9
IAOE 6 PORUUESE S/6             9       a        0        9       0        9     442
MATHEMATICSS/6        0         0                 9      0        0      442
TECN ARTS 6/B          0        0        0       9        a       a      442
OADE 6 PoRTuQUS5/6              9        6       9        9       a        0     412
MATHEMATICS 6/B        a        P       O        0       0        a      412
TECN ARTS /6           a        a        9       0        0       9      412
TOTAL TEAOIERS GUIDES           O       9        0       0        O    5786    252



- 80 -                           ANNX 16
Page 9 of 11
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING COSTS
(US Dollars)
nu -os comi
(incl.toachare'coplos)    INSURANCE/FREIGHT COSTS=    6.03 at Publishing Cost
(Int.rnatlonal Shipping)     -
- --~~~~------------   ------ ---                    -----------
OADE      BOOK                 UNIT COST USS      YEAR 1  YEAR 2  YEAR 3  YEAR 4  YEAR 6  YEAR 6  YEAR 7
LEVEL    TITLE         Publish  Ins/Frgt  TOTAL     198t    198    199       1990    191    1992    1998
- ------ - -------------~- ------ ----------
WDE 1 PORTUOUE  1           0.89    0.06    0.94       0        0       9       0   99868        a       O
MATHETICS 1         0.01    0.5    9.88 O       O                0       0   18983        9       9
ADE 2 PORTUUESE 2           1.10    0.07    1.17        0       0        9       0        0   l8840       0
MATHMTICS 2         1.28    0.19     1.88       9       9        0       a       9   42287        a
ENVIRO STUDIES 2    1.22    0.07    1.29        0       a        0       a       0   4089         9
ADE 8 PORTUGUESE 3          1.16    9.07    1.28        0        9       1       0   25272        0       O
MATHEMATICS 3       1.81    9.98    1.39        0       0        0       0   26839        0       0
ENVIRON STUDIES 3    1.86    0.08    1.44       O       0        9       0   29629        0       0
WAE 4 PORTUWESE 4            1.97    0.6    1.18        0       0        0       0        0   29840       a
MAT1HBMTICS 4       1.12    9.07    1.19        9       0        9       0       9   8U252        0
ENVIRON STUDIES 4    1.81    0.98    1.89       0       0        0       0       0   366          0
WAE S PORTUCUESES           1.689    9.19    1.70       0        a       a       a        0       0 6  So
MATHEMATICS 5       1.66    0.10    1.76        0       0        O       0       0        0   32124
INTEG SCIENCE 6     8.74    0.22    8.98        0       0       a        a       0       0   72378
OADE O PORTUGJE 8           1.44    0.09    1.58        0       0        9       0        9       0   254
MATNMTICS 6         2.60    0.09    1.59        e       O        9       0       o       o   s8s93
INTEG SCIENCE 6     4.09    0.26    4.34        0       0       0        0       0       0   84508
TOTAL PRINTIG COST       uss                            9       a                0  128269  216884  269718
STUDENT BOOKS           CV Esc. (O990)               0.0      O.O     9.9     9.9  8925.5 1StSl.8 20824.0
Total Coot (to Year 7):                                                                     44879.5
Completion Rat. (to Year 7):                 0.00    0.00    9.96    S.OO    9.20    0.86    0.46
TEACHER GUIDE COSTS
ORD LEVEL   BOOK                 UNIT COST US8      YEAR 1  YEAYEAR   EAR S  YEAR 4  YEAR 5  YEAR 8  YEAR 7
TEACHER    TITLE        Publlsh  Ins/Frgt  TOTAL     1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
ORDE 1 PORTUGIESE 1/2       8.71    0.22    8.93        0       0        0       0       O    1849        0
MATHEMATICS 1/2     8.71    0.22    8.98        O       O       0        0       6    1849        0
WDE 2 PORTUWESE 1/2         3.71    0.22    8.98        0       a        0       0        a    2462       0
MATEMATICS 1/2      8.71    0.22    3.93        0       0                        0 9  a    2462   0
ENVIRON STUDIES 2    0.99    0.05    0.95       0       0       0        0       0      697       9
WAE S POMWESE 8/4           3.71    0.22    8.98        6       0        9       0       5    a664        a
MATHEIATICS 8/4     8.71    0.22    3.98        0       0       0        0       a    164         0
ENVIRON STUDIES 3    0.99    9.0"    1.96       0       0       0        0       0      428       0
WADE 4 PORTUGUESE 3/4       8.71    0.22    8.93        a       a        0       0       9    2229        a
MATHEMATICS 3/4     3.71    9.22    8.93        o       a       0        0       a    2220        a
ENVIRON STUDlES 4    0.99    9.96    1.05       0       a       9        O       0      162       9
GRACE S PORTUCUESE 6        4.83    9.26    4.69        a       0        a       0       0        a    2928
MAThEMATICS, 5/6    4.U     0.26    4.59        a       0       0        0       0       0    2028
TECH ARTS 5/6      11.78    0.71   12.49        0       0       0        0       0       0    5617
OADE 8 PORTUGUESE S/8       4.33    0.28    4.59        a       0        a       0       9        9    1892
MATHEMATICS 6/6     4.38    0.28    4.69        0       0       a        0       0       0    1892
TECH ARTS 5/6      11.78    0.71   12.49        0       0       0        a       0       0    5148
TOTAL PRINTING COST     USS                                                              9 a  o  0  o   17887   18592
TEACHER GUIDES          CV Eec. (a999)               9.0      o.9     0.9     9.0      0.0  1296.0  1389.6
Total Coat (to Year 7):                                                                      2834.6
Completion Rate (to Year 7):                 0.90    0.69    0.90    o.e9    0.00    0.49    9.51
_____ ____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ ____ ____ _____ _____-_,   ____  _____  ____ ____  ____  ____



- 81 -
Annex 16
page 10 of 11
List of School Supplies to be Aquired
Type                     Unit         Quantity     Total cost
cost $                    000 CV Esc.          $
Exercise books,
48pp, ruled              .09         260,000           1,792        23,400
Ball point pen              .04         130,000             398          5,200
Pencil with earser end      .04         130,000             398          5,200
Allowance of 20X for freight                                518          6,760
3,106        40,560



REPUILIC OF CAPE VER
PRIM"RRY EDOCATION  FWOADING PROJECT
Table 301. PROVISION AMD DELMRY OF PRlNARr TEXTTBOCS AND SCHWL WATER!ALS
Detailed Cost Table
(C.VIESCUDOS '0
OwntitM                                                          Base Costs
Unit 1987 1989  1m    1990 1991 1"92 1993 Total  Unit Cost   t9S7   1988    IM8  '19?0   199           1992    193   Total
I. ItNESTHENT CSTS
A. FURNITURE                                                -    -                -                               493      -           -       -        -         493
0. E0IPENT-                                                -    -                -     -                   -   1,515          -           -       -        -   1,518
C. TEXTBOOKS AND SCOOL SUPPLIES
Students Books                                  -      -               -           -     -      -                                   8v976  15,708  20,196  4479         I
Teachers Guides                                          -    -                -     -                   -       -      -       -       -   I S1   1,344    :'35
Distribution of Textbooks                       -      -    -    -    -    -    -              -             -          -       -      35    7?6    - 7,'  2,0-1
School Materials                              -     -                       -        -                   -   3.106      -           -       -        -
Distribution of Schol Materials              -      -     -    -    -    -   -       -                   -       -     88       -       -       -               8
Sub-Total TEXTBOOKS AND SCHOOL SUPPLIES                                                                     -   3!106     85           9,411  17,765  22t40?  52v7
8. TRAINING OF PUBLISHING UNIT                  -      -     -    -    -    -    -      -               1,014       -      -       -       -       -        -   1014
E. TRAINING OF MNUSCRIPT WRITERS                    -     -    -    -    -    -    -                    1.f00       -       -      -       -       -        -   1,ilD
F. TEACHER TRAINING                              -     -     -    -    -    -    -      -                 101     380    304    304      481     481      481   '!530
S. SHORT TERN FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                -   4.5     1    1  0.5  0.5  0.5      3      687.8        -   3tQ09    688    688      344     344      344   5.412
H. SHORT TERN FOREIGN CONSULTANTS               2      -657.a   1'376                                               -       -                               -    .1376
1. LOCAL CONSULTANTS                            -   156   158   24   12   12    -   362           25        -   31i00  3v950    600      300     300        -   9,050
Total INVESTENT COSTS                                                                                      3YS?1  12,492  5029  1,591  10,535  18890  23,234  75362
II. RECURNTl COSTS
A. Increnental Operating Costs                 -      --                                                        180    240    240      180     180      180   1,200
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                          -     180    240    240      180     180      190   1,200      ,
Total                                                                                                       3i591  12t672  5t269  1I831  10,715  19w070  23,414  76S62



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
Primanry Education Upgradlng Project
Proposed Organigram of Ministry of Education
NmionRegonl 
Whser                  Counc Ofo
counc_                            _  Edut
. ~   ~~~~~~~~ .
l     l  l            |   L:IG   D A               DGEI                             Secondary | |DA    
rCon8col                                         Adctin.                         Educ.Acffon|c                       AdrkL2
ICASE   Fhance     ~Personnel    Services                       Txt.         Trg           Eval. |
De2          Del 4                                                                         e.1
fkW3128 t-3



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
Basic Education Upgrading Project
Organigram  for Project Implementation
(Education P                                         o Administration
Reform                                               Refor(h
Education Rreform                                                                              I
Implementation_i* 
Committee                    Project Director (PD)                                   Director General|
(D (G. Planringl                                        of Admidnistration                1
- D.G.P. (Chairman)                                                                   *          |'  
- D.G.A.                                                                             r
- D.G.E.                     Deputy Project Director (DPD)                   Inspector General             Mintster
- D.G.P.W                     (Future Director of Institute)                   of Education                Advisor
- D.P.G.
Curiculum              TeceIrann                     vaito
and Materials  j             r  Tra                  Eati
D.G.P. - Director General of Pang                               ,           Santa Cruz
D.G.A. - Director Genwal of Admirdstration
D.GLE - Director Goneral of Educabon                                                                                                   _ ,   .  t
D GP.W - Director General of Pubct Works  L
D.P.D. - Deputy Project Director         Pre-Service       InService                                                                o
caxtlSW31*28 tW



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VE
PRIR  EDUCATION UPRADING PROJEET
Table 401. INPR!PING EDUCATION SECTOR MANAGEtENT
Detailed Ccst Table
(C.V.ESEUDOS '000)
Ouantitv                                                    Base Costs
Unit 1987 1988 18  19O 19  12 1[93 Total ,ir:'. Cost.  lTV    0183   19?    19S0   1"1   [992   1993 Total
I . IM ESTNENt COSTS
A. ElUIPlEllt FOR HCE                                       3--                        -                  -   .32   3.5          -             -      -   7.02!
B. EIUIPIENT FOR PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                           -                    -                  -   1,44&     360 -           -      -      -     810
C. FURNlTURE FOR PRJIECT ADlINSTRATION                 -        -        --                               -     383       -      -             -            33
D. STUDES                                                                               -                 -     i.4      24      -      -      -      -  19448
E. SHORT TERN FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                0.5    7 2.5    3    1   1   -    15         579,2     29O   4054  1.448  1.738   m7    579          -  8.68
F. FIICIAL AUDITORS                                -    1   1    1   1    1   1    6          687.8       -     688    688   688    688   688    688  4127
6. PROJECT COORINATION NAER                      1.5    3   3   3   3   -   -  13.5           57?.2    869   1.738   1,738  1,738  1,738       -      -  'S819
N. LONG TERN FELLOISHIPS                           4   26  38  12   -    -            80      144.8    579   30765   5,502  1,738       -      -      - 116584
I. SHORT TERN FELLOISHIPS                          -   5    9   9           -    -   23       253.4       -   1.267   20281  2.281      -      -      -  5.828
J. PREPARATION Of FUT    PROJECT                   -    -        -    -     -    -    -  -                -       -       -      -  3,475  3.475      -  61950
K. PROJECT ADNINIStRATION                          -                                                      - -86    986    986   986    986   548   5,477
Total IlAJEStTllt COSTS                                                                                  lt738  18,564  17.240  ?t16.  7,465  !r702   1.236  619137
Total                                                                                                     1,738  18,S64  '7.240  9.167  7.465  St7Bc 1W23U  61.137
-s=st rs-rr  -ssr  -=s  t=ss ------ =r -=~-  --r
Ausust 14, 1987 17*01
*o                          lzC



up         'sn         u-          w+surn   #n'         ars         up-|s       ust4.ern
rn'n       s.eiias      usi U'htu sale                    Oeas        a's         91-81     cmn
urn         Wsi:1 OroUGS   i        6 iU   1r*s          &Se*eSe    us*g         es-eu    en:
0                                 55~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~I' i5U5 agea  us     eu.:  i*le         I5*tu5~   up's          at*max   sos:
WTl         W555        We          60 "    Sip's t       alsGU       Bra        tristi     Ur
WrIT       be-te9i      in';        asoen   ASIs         seresas    sri          wssern   9ssi
,,  Ut     59558sL       O's us    u's _il55U                        WOg W--S1             M1
to;                                            WI         8AS           ts        grown -LI             0#-01       01-          witi       Mtn
sif        i Sue        sri         60sSUI    5tt         *;U         us;-         U-Ose    sos:
us-:       o-Ues.    so's           arsoen   a'-s         :.uim      sri9         sIt-utt   ass
us::        alum        mrs          Wm mm      *s        ae-smsu    u's t:         sU5:   Sal
0,1sal                              Waw       1W`         sesa       ssl   | =U lern        S al I
b'$~~~~~~~~~~tl                      won         MI "   S    wsw _     r  u-st-                 0-t elwa               o
2~~~~~~~~~~~x-8                      cream        WG         a sum   0`-S          do--n       01          =   a-    rT
ii.                               E:Inn  It-O  UrRiij1 11|-  M- 8-t M' 4Md
Vow                   Mana.                   118tL
O's         ar-tn          xi's        t$-o           in's          W-ads       Sat         80,10           0.          g
MI          tilo           VX     n 0=                Ng's         469c          0st t                l     at          gml
a's         eessm          st*s        WISK           xi's tles                  MIT        it-m            Olt         gm5
ma      t        l5dl      5*-                        St's         Ost             ITt        a-:           s:-          also
mg         Grown           stu         ownos          xi's          eWo:         0t:        a9it            all        tam
0  -e sast      ure        se   s          up.s z       -   et       sel-       a4*uw                       tug
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sl                                             I'          eg-ow   l 9  .          6411S  ll1 11 7            MI 11RWl
WOM ~ ~ 01             *TT         $19          4I01             *        :;#11tW 101    * )ilt        1
0ri        groom t  t-Zsel                            St's          ssswi        IsIt        ",asU WS                    MG,
Cet      4-sew          iz wse                  X  St's    wzsen              Osl          san1          sal         560
salt           "lwVV                     alt-ts          a's         ft -g  t-  M-@t -   som                   8             8
sri          orn          2Wl1         ereuu          u-            MITU         Xri           u            us's:1      s es W# a
ID -l       erasu          a's        alum          * a            "Item:       uw`           ses9          0s          sue
S s- :        seems           use        urns            ma      s-tie  *r                     uss' Sus-i                 use
ISI-          one             rn-U       S-t ai:        Us-a          ogusi        up-c        .rue           up- 0  t
sr           e   asMS n-Uun                          us-a         sesut=       rn-           ISI:          up-:        sees1
up-:       taieee        owe          Salem:         at's         ST.,  M       se-c        a5955          55-i        565
WO=4       A 0'5s95       rn'sM       u-maom          IISi                      SS*Ssmi  A0M  o es'        up'so       SMtdntTA
SW-t "-l~~~~~~~~~~~U0M  'MM                                  *DOM                      Ma-        AWS "MU9-t      tgA
uS               sew             uss0e   ls W's         s                    'te                                  u-Z       SseU
SB-O     u1USS, ueu -a's                                55595      0-r              su9te          sre:              "e-Issu10       seat
O'-s    Stitm           jusu             St's          stm         Oup-             inns           it's:             sa-ese           MTS
WI8       iiem          up-as           si-s           eeafi.      u-s1             stowe          us-ls            es'rnesm         0441
Sr-i      s-tue         rn-a             rn-s          ussss       up-i             aSUSe          uws-s             iressesss        mle
up-i    us use          up-u             up-s          esses"      up-s             01040s         rn-si             Ul-en"c         not
WI-    us-use1          rn-u            us-s0          Tam*e       up-s             ssess          rn-si             es-9nsssss      sos
V9n-i    us-us          us-a"            us-s          "OMi        so-s             asses          rn-iA             02istess         Mte
S-il    fs'uas          rnes            sm-            s2Mse       up-s             suin           us-si9             ils-isue       ams
upo  Woe:.  us-es       us-s          seests      u-s              *SwL*           us-si            es-esesus       see
us-a     os-suM          a."s           us-s           saeem       up-s             seems          us-si             0e-mee          usm
us'p-a     41 u'saes    up-                            zoome       Sr*s"et                          W-IT             se-omus         &ss
1us      WGIN            snIOw am  s      no   -       IPnwU       snes#            flowsi us       WnIT  sue       asw*             owe
830531 ~  ~       ~       ~       fb       SXltWUl NOIJVXW lUl   )Id
ZOUZZa Z4oW 50 3111053



ANNEX 19
- 87 -                                   Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING. PROJECT
BUDGET PROJECTIONS WITH IDA FINANCING
(CV Esc. '000)
MOE BUDGET WITH IDA FINANCING       BASIC EDUCATION BUDGET WITH IDA FINANCING
GOVT.                       ANNUAL         AS X                       ANNUAL           AS U
DATE       BuDGET         AMOUNT        GROWTH      OF GOVT.        AMOUNT        GROWTH         OF MOE
1985     2069006         448878                        17.2         808184                         09.0
188      2678666         460B18            8.1         17.2         821024           4.2           09.7
"187     2756840         474484           8.9          17.2         882897           8.7           70.2
1989     264100          48888             8.0         17.2         844360           8.4           70.5
1089     2928828         603828           8.0          17.2          540657          2.8           76.8
1900     J014118         518427            8.0         17.2         882964           2.5           70.0
1901     810458B         674889          10.8          18.6         418821          14.0           72.1
1992     8197672         691589            8.0         18.5         427219           8.2           n2.2
1998     82982           809818           8.0          18.5         44098B           8.2           72.4
1994     8892410         827596           8.0          18.5         464974           8.2           72.5
1995     8494188         642980           2.4          18.4         468587           2.4           72.5
190g     869988          886818           2.4          18.8         478809           2.4           72.4
1007     8788978         674670           2.4          18.2         487877           2.8           72.8
1998     8818188         694910           8.6          18.2         562845           8.1           72.4
i999     8982788         711826           2.4          18.1         514175           2.8           n2.2
2666     4560716         729129           2.4          18.0         525558           2.2           72.1
COVERNMENT BUDGET           BASIC EDUCATION BUDGET
IDA FINANCING     EXSLUDING IDA FINANCING        EXCLUDING IDA FINANCING
OF SALARY
DATE   INCREASES         AMOUNT      X OF MOE        AMOUNT       U OF MOE
446878          17.2        868184          69.0
1986                     488616          17.2        821624           69.7
1987                     474484          17.2        882897           70.2
1988                     48888           17.2        844860           76.5
1989                     608328          17.2        864067           76.8
1990                     518427          17.2        883876           64.8
199i       29658         544751          17.5        88428            760.5
1992       18120         578449          18.1        41409            71.6
19o0                     80816          18.5        446936           72.4
1994                     827696          18.6        4U4974           72.5
1905                     642930          18.4        466887           72.5
1906                     668818          18.8        4768809          72.4
1997                     674870          18.2        487877           72.8
1m09                     694910          18.2        602846           72.4
1909                     711826          18.1        514176           72.2
2090                     729129           18.0       525668           72.1



- 88 -
ANNEX 19
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
MOE BUDGET GROWTH 1986-2000
740
720-
700 -
660 
Oa620
6000-
540 -
520-
500-
4W -
1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
YEARS
0 wIth Ida            it-    " I i 



REPUBLIC OF CAPE UDE
PRINART EDUCAtTION tPGRADIN  PROJECT
Sumary Account by ProJect Coamnt
(Cy.fESCU9OS 'M0)
UPGRADING QALITY OF
PRINARY SCHO. TEACHERS
ESThLISOENT OF  --------- ---                   INCREASING
SIX - YEAR                       PRIM"    .'.JAILABILITY OF  ItlPROYING               Physical
INTEGRATED       P1:ESERICE      SCHOOL     TEXTSWO'S ANt'  EDUTION                 Continsemices
PRIM"RT          TEAMCH         TEACIER      TEACI PG1        SETO                 -- -
EDUCATION SYSTENI    TRAINING      UPGRADING     iATERIALS      AIAMENENT   Tctal        X   acrz.t
==-8=    =          =~==_=_                                                                =_::==_==_25 =:=:= ====:.
I. INVESTIEIH COStS
A. SITE KEULOPNEiT  ORK                                            -          3,196            -                 -            -     3,196   10.0    S2C.
B. CONSTRUCTION                                                    -         26,635            -                 -            -    26,635   10.^   2#6,64
C. FIITURE                                                       194          2,664            -               493         383      3,734   10.0      373
D. E IW PNEIT                                                    885          3,995       lQ02              1,518       9S933    17?133   10.0   ',713
E. TEXTPOCKS , TEACDING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES                  ,5936             -        5,108            52,7'9            -    6e0823   1O.0   6#0r2
F. TEACHER AND STAFF TPRANINs                                  28909                            -            4,644                 0'453   10.0      745
6. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                                         7.U66              -        4,127             6,878      20,634    39,205    5.C  :I60
H. LOCAL CO"SULTANTS                                          10,?16              -            -             9*059            -    17,766    5.0     t88
1I  FELLOU0IPS AND STUDY TOURS                                     -         94629           507                 -      17P412    27,548    5.5.   1377 
J. STUDIES                                                         -              -            -                 -       1.448      1,448   10.0     145                             co
K. ARCHI TURAL AND ENGINEERING FEES                                -          39063            -                 -            -     3,063   10.0     306
L. ProJeet Aduinistration Costs                                  446              -                              -       5,477      5,923   10.0     592
N. PROJECT PREPARATION                                             -              -      -                       -        6951      6.950    5.0     348
Total I  ESTHN COSTS                                             25,552         49,182       11,644            75,362      61,137   222   7    '.9  1-614
II. RECURRENT CC0S
A. STAFF SNARIES                                              1.866         5t306                               -           -      7,172    0.0       C
D. TEACHER SALAinES                                               -              -       55,464                              -    55.464    0.o       0
C. Incremental Oberating Costs                                    -         3t458         39295             1.200           -      7.953   10.0     795
D. Student Teacbers Fellowships                                   -         7748              -                             -      7,748    0.0       0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                             1,866        16,512        58,?59             1,200                 78037    1.0      795
Total BASELINE COSTS                                              2,418          45,694       70.402            76,562      61t137   301,214    6.1  18,410
Physical Contingencies                                          1,641         4,783         1.262             6,860       3,864    18,410    0.0         0
Price Contingencies                                             3,646        15.657        26,878            11,706       7,475    65,361    3.v   2,534                            . * 
------------- ----- ------ -------------                                      -- -- --d
Total PROJECT COSTS                                               32.705        86,13!        986543            95.126      72.476   384,985    5.4  20,944
Taxes                                                               -         3.352                               -           -      3.352    9.1     305                             $>
Foreign Exchanse                                               12,488        37t729        129073            72r,15      'Z.,74    186,161    ,.5  13,939.
August 14, 197  17:02



EFUKIC OF WE VW
uasmr oucam wUPADINi PROJEC
fuss p000)
ta" Coss                  Vhwsical Continmncics           Price CmOati ictes               Toat mc!. Cont.              Phimical
--________________                 - ~-~- ~~- --------------------'--------- ------                                               Cont. PIt     D s   Ctsts
Local                         Local                         Local                              Local                   Price Cot.       Price
(Excl. Aiss I           Fot.  (EUt. Dities I         Fot.  CEt:i. Duties I                     tExcl. DuUtes I         an Pbvical  tCt. oo
For. Exch. Tis)  Taes  Total  Exc. Taxes) Taes   Tctal E::.'. T4.;C               . tetes  Total For. t ch. Taxes)  la--es   Total    Cont.    Bam  Costs
t.    fl       CO-ST
A. SItE  LOPENT OM                                          7     38        -     44       1      4        -     4      0      1^        -  12             8     53        -      61            6          55
h. UI1TI1IN                                               221    itO       373            22     11        4    7      tS      38        6    5          257    1          46   463            42         421
C. fWlNli                                                 31     21        -     52       3      2        -     5      2       5        -     7          36     28         -     64            6          se
D. ElUtp                                                  225     12        -    237      22      1        -  24       10       2        -    12         257     t5         -    273 n5                   249
E. 1EX   IS,E$AO         ATERIALS AD SUPLIES              920     20        -    840      82      2        -    84    104      11        -   115       1,006     33        -   1.039           94         944
F. TEAM          STFF TM IINB                              15     se        -    103       2      9        -    to       1     17        -17              18 l113           -    131           12         119
6. fUI UWSS.LT       S                                    379    162        -    542      19      8        -27         21     4          -  61           41?    2t1        -    63*            30         60
N. LUEL CM  LTMTS                                          22    251        -    213       1     13        -    14      1    54          -  55            24    317        -    341            16         35
t. FLEUIPM           ST     TOUMS                         361     1?        -    381     19       1        -  19       13      3         -    17         393     23        -    416            20         396
J. STUDIES                                                 14      6        -     70       t      I        -     2       1      1        -     2          16      8        -      24            2          22
K. M TMTUl           M    EIISN5IN16N FEES                  6     36        -      42      1      4        -     4      0      6         -                 7     46         -     53            S          48       t
L. PrsJect AiazstraUwmCests                                12     70        -     82       1      7        -     8       1    27         -    28          15    103         -    ItB           11         tO7      o
N. P    lRO     PtWlTIN                                    67     29        -      96      3      1        -     5       7     14        -    21          78     44         -    122            6         116
Total IIP T0ERI COSTS                                      2,181    861       37  3T078    177      63        4   243    176    230         6   412       253   1,154         46  3,734          274       3.460
11. RE-E     CaSm
A. STAF maES                                               -     9         -    99       - -     -                     - -  -  44       -44               - 14            - 14                 -         143
Be TEACER SAIES                                            -    766        -    766       -                                 344         -   344           -  I,tll        - 1t111              -       1t111
C. Iucrbmtl Operatin  Costs                               16     93        -    110       2      9        -    11      2     44         -    46          20    147        -    167            15         152
D. Stuat  Tecliers Fellowships                            16     91        -    107       -      -        -     -      2     54        -    56           18    145        -    163.            -         163
Total REC)iIT COSTS                                          33 1049          -  1092        2      9        -    it      4    487         - 491            381 tt4          - 1t5.4             t5       t.5
Total                                                       2,213  1,910       37  4,160    17S      72        4   254    180    717         6    03       2.571  2.M         46  5.317           289       5023
Ausgt 14  1M87  17:02
10
ba.



WLIC U CAPE VER
IRUM    EDUATION IHMWU PROJECT
nRcT COST uur
(C.V.ESWDUS '000)            (US$ '000)                    Z Total
Z Foveign   Base
Local  Foruign   Total   Local Foreign Total  Exchange    Costs
A. ESTAULSMENT OF SIX - YEAR INTEGPATED PRI)AI EDUCATION SYSM            16,280   11.P38   27t418      225     154    379          41        9
B. UPADING OWITY OF PRIMARY O L  TE           R
1. PRESERIICE TEAC     TRAINING                                       32,552   339142   65,694      450     458    907          50       22
2, PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER UF8RADINS                                   59,878   10,524   709402      827     145    972          1S       23
Sub-Total UPS RIING DUALITY OF PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHERS                   92t430   43t666  136.097  1r277       603  1,880          32       45
Co INCREASIN  AVAILABILITY OF TEXTi'OOKS AND TEACHING NATERIALS          17.433   59,129   76.562      241     B17  1'057          77       25                              1
De IUROVING EDUCATION SECTOR rANAGENT                                     14t831   464307   61,137     205     640    844          76       20                             X
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                      140.974  160.240  301P214   1,947   2,213  4,160           53      100
Phteical Contingencies                                                   5506   12.903   180410        76      178    254         70        6
Price Continiencies                                                     52.343   13.018   65S361      723     180    903          20       22
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                       198.823  196,161  384P985   2.746   2.571  5.317           48      1I28
:=__:: 14 197  17= :0===2  ==_           =                        .. _ 
August 14# 1987 17'02
0 0
s s



ANNEX 20
- 92 -                                          Page 4 of 4
REMLIC OF CAP  YDE
PRINARY EDUCATIN UPO DING PROJECT
&NW OISS COST SUm
(C.,ESCUDS '000)              (USS '000'                    I Total
--------            - -   ---------- ----  I Foreigln   llsw
Local   Foreign   Total    Local Forein Total   Exchang         Costs
I. INVESTNT COSTS
A. SITE DEVELOPiTENt ORK                               2,717      479    3196        38       7     44          1S        1
D. MDNStCTIDN                                         10,654   15981   26.635      :47     22:     6           60        9
C. FURNITURE                                           1,494    2,240    3,734       21      31     52          0        I
D. EWUIPtNt                                             857   16,276   17.133       12     225    237          95        6
E. TEXTBOOKS i TEACHING MATERIALS AND S'JPPLIES        1.482   59,341   60,023       20     820    840          98       20
F. TEACHER AND STAFF TRAINING                          64335    lt118    7,453       88      15    103          15        2
6. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                               l11761   27,443   39,205       162     379    542          70       13
H. LOCAL CONSULTANTS                                  19,159    1,607   190766      251      22    273           8        7
It FELLOWSHIPS AND STUDY TOURS                        1W3V7   269171   274548        19     361    38'         95         9
Jo STUDIES                                               434    1.014    1t448        6      14     20          70        0
K. ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING FEES                  2,604      459    3,063       36       6     42          IS        1
L. Project Administration Costs                        5.035      888    5,923       ,0      12     82          15        2
M. PROJECT PREPARATION                                 2.085    4.065    6950        29      67     96          70        2
Total INYESTMENT COSTS                                   64.992  1574884  2229877      898. 2.18! 3.078            ?1       74
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. STAFF SALARIES                                     7.172        -    7.122      99        -     99           -        2
I. TEACER SALARIES                                  55S464         -   55,464      766       -    766           -       19
C, Incremental Operatint Costs                        6760      1.193    7,953     93      16    110          *e        3
D. Student Teachers Fellowships                      6.586    1.162    7?748        Il      16    10?          15        3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                    75982    24355   793437   1.04?        3   1.082                   26
Total BgAELINE COSTS                                     140,974  160,240  3014214   1,947    .Z13  4t1.60          r3      100
Physical Contingencies                                 S5506   i2.903   18,410        76     .?8    25$          70        6
Price Contingencies                                    i2,143   13018   65,361      723     18     903          20       22
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      198.823  186.161  384.985   2.746   2.571  5,317           48      128
Au-gust---- - ------ - ------            - ----S: ---= --2---: -1-4-. 19-8 7:02------
Asust 149 19B7 17:,02



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERtDE
PRIMRY EDUCATION UPOADD   PROJECT
PROJECT IWLEM8 TATION SCHEDLE
YER I       YEAR2        YEAR    t  YEWR4          T Y:         YEAR  :      YEAR? *     YEMRS B
A C T I V I T Y                     :   1997         19618        1989    s   1995    :   1991    s   1902    i   189             198     s
:-234576992:1234567392:l2f467STl2:12U479712:1234687B s2:1284M77990172 456?39:28                     12:
01 START PROJECT                                 :            :            :            :            :
2 Train Crricululai Stef                                000               Is            *            * 
US Propero Curriculum Manucrsipt.                                                                                             : O
04 Train Institute of Education Trainers                      S                                                                            :            i S
a Proper. Inserwice Training Prora               :000:
68 PS ro  Modules 1-4                                                     0000: 0                                                          :
?7 Prepuro modules 5-8                           :
OaPs ope Module. 9-12                                         :            :      0000  :            :            :            s
IS Prpr. modules Grades 54                       :            :            :          40: OOWO                    :::i
19 To2echr Inorvic. Training In bodules 1-S      :            :            :0000000D0   :            :            : 
11 teacher Inservtco Tralning In  odules 0-10    :            :            :         00000000        :                        :
12 Teocher Inoervice Trolainng in Modules 11-12    :          :            :                   000000s:           s           : 
tEACI  SALARY ADJRITNT-lst Tranebe ...................               ............     :s..........: s          :_:s
18 Ins rwloe Training Modules Grades 54                       s            :            :            s            :           .is
tEACHER SALARY ADJUSTMEMS4t4d Trench ...... ............2.............     . .               :. ............
14 SCr Training Grades 1-4                       s            :00:                co
1S Plan Snta Crux (SCr:) Training Grades                                                       000   s  
10 8Cr:s trIin  Grade          iseorlo Primorlo)                         s OOD O_ss
17  Crs JIWLATION Yt/ WADES 1*8                              s                      O     O         s            s
18 EvoluatioajRsison Seeks 1*8                   s            s            s            s                                                               as       
19 Printing Books 1*&                                                       s           sO
20               oos18aaa                                                                                   00                             a
21 GEERALIZATION IN WRAME  1*8.....  ...  ......  ...................  ......   IXaX:                                         2            a
22 5Cr: IWLUITATION/IURTUT  tAD'  2'      '                                                         0a00                                   :  s  I      I
28 Eveluatioe/Io"vIlon Books 2114                a00s s                                                     s00
24 Printlg Books 2*4                                                                                                                                   sas 
25 Distribution Books 24                                                                             :                   00
26 OEURIALIZATIOn IN  RADES 2*4 ........................... :                            ............ .....     ...:.. .                                a... s
27 SCr: IWEMBATION4TRYOT WRADES SU              sa0:
26 Evaluetioe/Rovision Books Us                                           s s OOOO OOs
2t Pritineoksts                                  : SU:                                    s 
80 Distribution Books SU                                             :                               s            s           *       00   I            s
81 eanATION IN mmADES  .. ..                                . ...: :::sslOUt.OOOOOCs
82 FtUL I7WLEATAON OF EDUCATION REFORM ........ .        ........... ..................s s                               : ......es.e.o ....
88 Hire Architeoctural Enlnoerrlng Consultente       00       :            :            :            :            :            :
84 Prpero Sch.m.tic De31n Plane of Instltute    :    000    :              :            :            :            :            :           s            s
8 IDA REVIEW of Schatic Plow                    s            s            s            s                                       
86 Propoer Final Plonw and Bidding Doc0:nte               0000SOOD                :     :      :                                            
J? IDA APPROAL ofFtnules                         s            s                  :                   :            :     :                  :            s
86 Call for Constrwutlon Bide                                 2   000      :            :            :            :
89 Award Coae.ractlon Contract                   s                    0 O      :        s            :            :
40 IDA APPROVAL of Contract Award                                          I :  s
41 Construction Period                         s s                        OOOs s:0 :  s  s00
42 J,1LDI11 ACCEPTAMCE .S....                                                   S S   :              :0a :   : :0S
48 Finolito Furnitur.e &Equipe_    Bid ocwmnts   :      000   :            :            :            :            s           s            s            s
44  &id Furs/Ep Pack   No.1  (MEEPIU needb)                000:            :                         s
46 Aw rd Fre         ck  e Ko.1                  sOOt: :00                                                                     :           s            s
4@Delivory    &urs     ipPochs  o.1              s            s 000000    :             :            :            :           :               s
47 ad Furn/Equip P       1111ho .2  nsituo" neds)  I          :            :            :            :
48A urdFurs/ IqV pNPaekagso.:                                                                    000:                                        
40 D ltvr nNulI           ID P  ckae No.2        2            ::2t0                                               sts
---s                                 -     ss               -    -    s     -     ss                _      s    -     s    - ----
a      a - a~~



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPSDING PROJECT
Firn;cina Plan bh Suumarv Accounts
(US$ '000)
iNTERNATIONA    CALOUSTE
DEVELOPMENT   GULBENKIA  GOVENMNT OF
ASSOCIATION   FOUNDATION   CAPE VERDE      Total                  Local
(L-c1. Duties I
Amosnt  I   Amount Z    Amount  X    Amnt Z    For. Exch, Taxes)   Taxes
I. INVESTMENT COSTQ
A. SITE DEVELOPRENT WORK          .                    52    85       -   -        9    15      61    1           8      53
B. CONSTRUCTION                                       394    85       -  -        69    15    463    9          257      159        46
C. FURNITURE                                           63    99       -   -        1    2       64    1          36      28         -
D. EQUIPMENT                                          268    99       -  - ?             2    273    5          257      15
E. TEXTBOOKS Y TEACHING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES      1,039   100       -   -        -    -   1,039  20         1406       33         -
F. TEACHER AND STAFF TRAINING                          67    52      63  48        c     0     131    2          1%     113         -
6. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                                579    92      51   8        -     -     630   12         419    211          -
H, LOL CONSULTANTS                                    280    82      62  18        0    0      341    6          24     317         -
1. FELLOWSHIPS AND STUDY TOURS                        273    66    143  34         -     -     416    8         393      23         -
J. STUDIES                                             24   100       -   -        -     -      24    0          16       E         -
K. ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGIMEEERING FEES                 45    85       -   -        8    15      53    1           7      46         -
L. ProJect Administratior Costs                        59    50       -  -        59    50     118    2          IS    103
IS. PROJECT PREPARATION                               122   100       -   -        -     -     122    2          78      44         -
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                                 3P264    87    319   9       151     4   3v734   70       2433   1.1Z4         46
!I. RECURRENT COSTS                      -    *- -:
A. STAFF SALARIES                                      -    -        -   -      143   100     143    3           -      143        -
B. tEACHER SALARIES                                  855    77       -  -       255   23   1,111   21             -   1,111         -
C. Incre,ental Operatin-  Costs                       83   5o        -   -       83    50     167    3           20     147
D. Student Teachers Fellowships                        -     -       -  -       163  100      163    3           18    145          -
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                    939   59.       -   -      645   41   16584   30            38   1,545         -
Total Disburseaent                                      4,203    79    319   6       796    15   5.3t7  100       2,571   2700          46
October 21. 1987  11:03          -



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
Finaneing Plan Bs Disbursement Cate4orv
(US '000)
INTERNATIONAL   CALOUSTE
DEVELOPMENT   GULBENKIAN  GOVERNMENT OF
ASSOCIATION   FOUNDATION   CAPE VERDE       Total                   Local
-(Excl. Duties S
Amount   I    Amournt I    Amount   Z    Amount  I    For. Exche Ta:.es)   Taxes
A. CONSTRUCTION SITE DEVELOPMENT ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERtNG FEES          490    85        -   -       87    15      577   11         272     258         46
B. FIUNITURE                                                                  63    99        -   -        1     2       64    1          36      2a          -
C, EQUIPMENT                                                                 268    99        -   -        4     2      273    5         257.      15         -
D. TEXTBOOKS EDUCATIOt.AL MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES                           1,039   10v        -   -        -     -   1039   20        140C6      33          -
E. TEACHER TRAINING                                                           52    53       46  47        0      0      97    2          13      85          -
F. CONSULTANT SERVICEb FELLO SIIPS STUDY TOURS AND STUDIES                 1,171    81      273 *19        0     0   1,444   27          857     587          -
G. Project Administration Costs                                               59    50        -   -       59    50    118    2            15      103         -
H. PROJECT PREPARATION                                                       122  10          --           -      -     122    2          78       44         -
I. Incresental OFeratinA Costs                                                83    50        -   -       B3    50      167    3          20     i47          -
J. STAFF SALARIES                                                              -      -       -   -      143   100      143    3           -      143         -
i. TEACHER SALARIES                                                          855    77        -   -      255    23   1f111   21            -   ltll1          -
L. Student Teacherz Fe1lhgships                                                -      -       -   -      163   100      163    3          18       4!         -
tal Disbursement                                                           4,203    79      319   6      796    15  5W317  100         2v5?1   2,700         46
taber 21i 19l7 1103
I 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASS ISTAN4CE SCHEDULE
BegI* Veer: 116                             Origin  :          Steft-esutis per Period            : Totel      Cost i# UNO    : Cost io CVEOm  a 
CV Eac.lMs0 72.4                             of   :---                                    - 2   t staf  ---- 
CXC96I..NW SUVICES:               SortSes : 16  1116 116  116w  116  16n  1016 1016 :monthe   unit    TOTAL       Unit    SMAL :FBVWSC=IE  2    U1
Textbook Pt@dockionjDisttlbutleoi                                                                                            I                           2
Textbook Authors (tollI tice)           Loal   :       15n.6 1168.6  12.6                          824.6     845   11176  a   25. 6110162.0           a 18 long-tee  esetrocta
Testboosh Aathorg (fort ties)           Local   :2.6  12.6  12.0 12.6                               16.6     848    181W:   25.6   0409.2:             2# m*hort-oorviee ssatrectes
TosthoekWiig-.le Leedee                 Foein  a2.6                                                 2.6    6660      1160  a  687.0  1876.0 :aum.9in113
Testhee  Editor                         Foreign  :       1.0  1.6  1.6                         a    8.6    0516    2816m  t  667.6  266.4:             2 
so"k Pricing                            Forelig   2                       6.5                  :      .5    son       4756 t  17.8   86.0:
Oeok Siotributtee                       Foreign  2                               .6.  0.5  6.5       1.5    Om       14256   *687.0  198.7 a 
Te:xtbeoh Tendering/lid Evolustion      Foreign          8.0                                   a      .6    05m      29566    6 87.0  2166.4:
Revoivleg Fund Ocign                    Foemign  :       1.5                                         1.5    Sm       14256 :  687.0  116.7?:
Rwevoving Food lEvaluaton               Foeign  a                                          1 1.      1.6    Gm50      150   687.6   667.6:             * 
subkotoel Textbook ProducteIonlis   t      22  .6 11.8 150.6 25.6  12.5  12.5  6.    .       $ 74.5           24846 20           1764:
Toasber Training::                                                                                                           22*
Diatoms. Learning                       Foreign  a       8.9  1.5  1.5                         a      .0     050    57     :68.   4120.6
Educaset ion  h#rs/seste Cren PI lot Prey,.:t                                                                                                                                       I  
Cuwrrcelus Oe.og.seot/Ev.luation        Foregn    8.6                                                8.6    am       2656  :t  SW7.   16.4 :GLGENCIMIa
fduoestle,o  ol Um  urma                Foreign          1.5                    1.6  1.6       a      .5   1Om       as=  :  6:7.   2467.8:            :
Eduowtlasl TestIng                     Foefign  .        1.6  1.5  1.6  1.6                         4.6    N6W       4275     08 7.0  866.1 I                                      
C.rrie,boo Destig                      Local   a 70.6  16.0                                        1 V06     M2    5466:   28.5  86.  A IM214.1 pmr*
map -atcr lt Prsper,tioa               tAoca    :       72.6  72.6 06.6 68.6 24.0              :  28.6       M1    OM   :    26.5  6770.0:t             2xW yr,8x8 ie & 12 ire t.
Supbotal Ides lietorm/.Cras                : 78.6 172.5  78.5 01.6  61.6 25.6  1.6  6.6 :   67.6              25276               905                                        
Education p4mssogmmt otr:a:                                                                                                                    222
Educable. plamninJtetuties,reg                           2.6  6.0  12.0  2.6                   2   2.0      on6   "11160.   570.2  181005.6 :IIW       :fAlact cude 1. Project 
0rgnniz.1nopoctwiooher Support          ForeIan  :2.0  2.6                                           4.6    156      8a1m11   087.6  275.2:I
Inetitetionsl Devipet. S Loglitel.     Fworeig   : 0.5  6.5  6.5                                    1.5   1gm        14256    SS68.6  16811.7 a 
Genralt Educator                        Foreign  :       2,6                                         2.6    156      10s=0   07.8  1875.0:             :
Technical sEductor                      Foreign  :       2.6                                        2.6    056       low      SV66.6  1875.6 a  
Eduoeties Eceasmist                     Foreign  :       1.6        1.6  1.6  1.6                   4.0    6660      I'll a  07.6  2751.2:             a
Feel I lta Flossing a Precarcomnt      foreign  2       1.5                                         1.5    1566    14256      WI66.0   M&.?:          *
SubUtotl Ides MUw0s5t Rotor                I6.5  7.6  2.5  8.0  1.6  1.06. 6.     15.6                        142560 a19817:1                    :Escluding VOW tended it. s
Project Adeil.ltrstioa:                                                                           a                                              
Coordinottl n onager                   Foreign  I 1.5  8.0  8.6  8.6  8.6                           18.5   1gm    126256    667.6  12.6., I 
Fisamciol Auditors                     Foreign  a        1.6  1.0  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6:    7.6   0s6            66W       8 87.0  4614.0 
Subt"otl Project Adeiisitratlon            a 1.5  4.6  4.0  4.0  4.0  1.6  1.6  1.6     28.5                  104756 2           141U6 2         2 
TOTAl CUA.MIT ~ICES  IOED    W PROECT: : 77.0 84.0 246.5 04.5 70.5 86.   2.5  2.5:  068.6                  156              6447              lcuigUS  uddie
Of uhich F60E168          : 7.0 22.6  19.5  19.5  6.5  5.5  2.5  2.5 :   0.0                 017568:            4476  2           
LOCAL  a           76.0 810.6 280.6 64.6 72.6  86.6  6.6  6.6:  616.6               278W=  a           1077  S           



- 97 -
BASIC Ro     Oru   IDM0IROJECT                              ANNEX 23
Page 2 of 4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SCNEDU.E
s00gIn :Nu        pr  t IOrnf.inltss
s CONSULTANT SERVICES:         :Soervrico!ExCrt: on  a: Assignment        Terms of Roference/Roponsibilitiea
:Textbook Preduct.io & Distrib:
*                             =     .  -  I 
Textbook Auth    (                      18   824.6 :In  itu  o*:Write textbook manuscripts
*                     ~ ~~~~~~~~.  I  Iln 
s T  tbook Authors (part tise) Local      19  s 86.0   : xo    '.Write. textbook manuscripts
Textbook                     'Frtii- F gn:   2  s 2.0             Qoto c-weteksominars to ftt krt
:       3einarLbades           :         :    :      :             :t.ox took w~iter ,ono tor  aortuaueo/Matb s
I  :   :      :            : one 1or In rated *clonco, nvlronstal :
etude ::tinncal ofor".
Textbook Editor               Foroign!  1      8.0                Aapt tho mtrirlal dovelosment upnit
*n .v.opnnv /rov  mng asusceript
Book Pricing                 :Foroign:  1  i6  :Di ector to  AsI tDGA Adn dnhhleale
nor   of:  a   r                    :c0ro 
evuco on:   cnCoo    i~I eDpi e,a r.dO     ure for futuro
ook pr  ng as mrka          t strua
i Book Distribution            :Forogn:  1i   2.0                  ;No itor textbook dletrelutlonesastc   or
a"  ocunla  Ya           ocrn
*pro aeontat   h*ec
i Textb    Tonfrlng and Bid  iForeoign    1  i8.0 iAt 1rperin  bid dQcg.ct  and
tv:luet on                                                      pufiG ha n ontrac   .  v=se on
pu lai n    copyr 9At  own, etc.
Revolving Fund Deslgn        :Foroign:   1i   1.5 6Asist In developing rvotvin t futd cro  dures,
clslgn forme sahdGocu"nts, tra n  ai
Revolving Fund Evaluation   :Foreign:  I       1.0 6Eva1u  the grationof the tOxtbo.,k
.revoiving fud and cos  recovery sy"te
JoTchor Training:
Distanc  LeUrning            aForeign      i   8.0 :IVItuty ofiPrylfb JuIo          nd dOnesOO  moth do1    on
*                              F1                6.6 n:uca   on         a  n   16earning teeon ques and mstshv     i
:Baaic Education Reform:
Curriculum Development       :Foreign:  I      8.6        I       Trdntr loltanes to::
:                D~~~ruari d ucaUins cste.      "rV   ult
imp :   : %0 XrDfove  ciCln0   .Rtlo ecy
:Education Managemnt Reform:
Educotional Measurement       Foreign:         8.5 iIn2pecteratoiDepvlop batteries of teot to meas:s rtudent;
uonerai:  pargress limprove evaluation met.        *aloy
x:   :                                    :          :             : inprocteco
Educational Ttatipg          :Foreign;         4.   i                      p e t     :Evaluat  plit program in Santa CruL   !
*   (ante  fruz )nrilf   roo n  Improvimenta In syetem  ag
C Curriculum Design            Local      14   168.0i Education 'Develop curriculum for Integrated system
Manuscript Preparation       :Local      6  :288.0               : iPrepare manuscript. of r.w curriculum
E Education ptatistics         Foreign    1 I   4.6 i             :Doelop mothodlIoa  and suanlitetive toe for
*       and ronance                                                        erand d ographii        t  e lectlon
prep re      to  annue        citc
i Organls  of I:e torv :Foroigni   1  i 4.  iDevelop method, for att gthln jte?cher
a   Toacer support                                                      p !dur!t fv co ro    _      anitdi  !
iIntitutio X  0      eopent   iForeign    1i   1.6 iMinister    i                     J th  Qovron   nt on dr7ftjnyl oedueation:
and u      Olaaon                                            n :  :   an  lnthe oronm ren r   ogr     at on
i Technical Edu-ator          :Foreogn:   1 i   2.0 :PIanping    aAdvls  on  oicy  curriculum and development
*                        Ca:binOt   :AdooclRnicalegaucation progranu
CGneral EJucator             :Foreign:   1 i   2.0 :Plencing      AdvJsdoon tiIcy  curriculum nci development
a.. *   8  nit   * o duca tion pograms at alI lees a
Education Economist          :Foreign    1i   46  D0iectoretOef Antl   coot anid tinanci39 aTt eab level,
enra  o      otiy proue~ ye and a iocat1ve
Adiniat      Offc ency measurOs
Facilties Planning and        Foreign    1     1   E!ts   h methodo                      orrt ng inventory of
rrocursmont                                                   soh el/ nspot*.or ateYc lioe,a?  or
a loca ion o        a     p   tal  reoures.
iProJect Administration
Coordination Mnager          :Foreign:  1I   18 6 :Proe          .Provide  ui oance to I=rov  ?roJ ect mansageent
`imnstteo    and co6rdina t   pl p    nta n 0  he projact:
Financial Auditors         iForoigni   1      .0               : Audit projoct accounts
:TOLICES    :                                 :
_ 



s    sssii's  (ifs H s    & 
21    n !                                   |~~ h1                    1
] 1   -      ---   ---   -       ----i----'Xw                D         1
b~~~~~bA                 00 Ib-C  -^  I* 
A                                                     K    l  t Be|*  e.  
_ _ ., _ ..~~~. _   _    54 ,...._       l'.
., _ :*                    0  ,                                  -   ."..      ...
*  0                             *           I'~~~~~~~
t~~~~ 3                                       0           0    """ .....""""  ...^"""
Z X                      - 86 -~~~~I



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
kis Twrt             1937
Eftegw    Rte        n.4
MW pr BSt
Place  :                        Cost tii  per  Prled                      I   MAlL  i  MAL    s           a
of    I-I   o                                                                         ia In    a
ef RitIUSill                        Services      93     13       19      M90    1991    1992   1M         1   4    Us   .   cYOO  :FIeoCEo:          BRIM
ethoek Pre dutieatistributeas                          a                                                    s                      0:        0 s           I
-                                                                 1        01        0 t           I
lrnbipt briting 3d1w                      Ltcia     I   200                                                            t    1200 :    1io0  :SLM A: 19 Participants
trainAig of   blishiqg (it                 Lout     s  1000                                                            .    1400 .    1014 :
Setotd Txtbooet ProductionlTistrib              2920m       .0        0       0       0       0       0        0o     29200     2114 t
tC letia RateW                      s   1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00 I       1.00 I                    t
Eucatim  ftfornlSmta Cru  Pilot Project:                                                                                  a          :         s
Curricula  hknlopat Somiear                Local    s  6400                                                            :     6400:      463   MDsLUIKIA*t
trriculm Evnauti                           LoKaI    t  12000                                                           t    12000: t    669 :GULS  IIAN:
la-svice Training o  now  ooks            Local    .           20400                                                   .    20400 s    1471 tBMWIJSIAN 34 psrticicantsI
hbtotal Educatio n forut.Crvz                 a  13400   20400       0        0       0       0       0        0*      809:    280t t 
oepletion Rates                      s   0.47    0.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00 :       1.00 .         I          I
s~~ ~ ~~~~~~                                                              ~    ~~~~~~~~~~ 0 1 t   t
Tnuber Traainpe                                        t                                                                  t        0         0 t
a *  t     t0 :      t          a
Morshop en ks4 of  w Tuxtbooks             Lal S                                                 6800     80     63         20400s     147 7
In-srvice Training llshop                 Loa           1450    5124    3Y       35                                    t    14544 :    10533           :1400 tclrs IW/broadeast
Subtotal lacher Training                      a   1450    5124    39      3985        0    60       900    600 .   3494 :   2530 .
Cepletie  Rates                          0.04    0.15 * 0.d    0.11    0.00    0.19    0.19    0.19           1.00 I 
MALV 1111116                                  a 49050   2524    395    3M9            0    63       80     6800    102944 t    7453:
Coupitiln Rates t                        0.48    0.25    0.04    0.04    0.00    0.7    0.07    0.07 a       1.00 a
_ aw_"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
m
b10



- 100 -                       ANNEX 24
Page 1 of 6
CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
1.   Civil Works
(a) Architectural and qtngineering firms interested in undertaking tbe
design as well as aupervision of the Institute of Education building
construction project would be shortlisted. Due to the small project size
(US$400,O0 base cost), the invitation to prequalify would be published
locally, but interested foreign consultant firms would be allowed to
participate. The shortlist (3-5 firms) would comprise those firms which
obtain the highest aggregate weighted scores on the following criteria
agreed with the Government: (i) experience in institutional design or
similar works - 252; (ii) qualifications of key architecturallengineering
and supervision staff - 2VI; and (iii) viability and responsiveness to
project requirements of the building cost, construction materials, methods
and design approach proposed - 502. The contract would include the design
of the building, preparation of bidding documents (detailed drawings,
specifications and draft contract documents} and cost estimate, evaluation
of construction bids received, and construction suipervision. Preliminary
desipn plans would be presented to IDA at negotiations.
(b) Due to the small project size, the civil works contract would be
awarded using LCB procedures, although interested foreign contractors would
not be precluded from participating in the bids. Consistent with IDA's
Procurement Guidelines, interested contractors would be prequalified, and
the contract would be awarded to the lowest responsive bid.
2.   Procurement of Goods
Textbook publishing contracts and equipment would be procured under
ICB even though it is likely that only 4 out of the 27 textbook titles to
be printed could be grouped into bid packages valued above US$50,000. The
furniture requirements, because of its small size, would be procured using
LCB procedures. To ensure the suitability of the school supplies to be
procured, these items would be acquired from UNIPAC through UNICEF. All
other small purchases (less than US$5,000) of consumable materials and
other supplies for curriculum and manuscript development, project
administration, training etc. (aggregate US$100,000), would be procured
through comparative shopping comparing at least three price quotations.
3.   Technical Assistance and Services
(a) Specialist services, technical assistance and audit services
financed under the IDA Credit would be obtained from consultants engaged in
accordance with IDA Guidelines.
(b) The contract for the local handling, warehousing and delivery of
textbooks and school supplies to the district sales outlets would be
carried out under force account with EMPA, the parastatal distributing
agency.



- 101 -                        AMNEX 24
Page 2 of 6
4.   Contract Review
(a) Prior Review. For all contracts or bidding packages financed by
the XDA Credit, which are valued at more than US$50,000 per package, each
of the following stages cf the procurement process would be subject to
IDA's prior review and commented upon by IDA staff before they are
implemented and finalizeds
Bid Advertisement
Prequalification (if called for)
Bidding Documents and Addenda
Bid Evaluation and Proposal for Award of Contract
Contract Agreement
Major Modifications to the Contract
(b) Post Review. For all contracts or bidding packages financed by
the IDA Credit, which are valued between US$5,000 and US$50,000, two copies
of the contract, together with the bid evaluation and the award decision,
would be furnished to IDA for post review before the first application for
withdrawal of credit funds against these contracts.
(c) Random Review. All contracts valued at less than the equivalent
US$5,000 would be subject to randon review by IDA staff during supervision.
Contracts would not be submitted to IDA but held by the Project Committee
for IDA's random and audit review.
(d) Initial Review. For all contracts valued at less than US$50,000,
an initial review by IDA staff may suffice for standard documents which are
common to a number of procurement operations, such ast
The general format of advertisements and their circulation;
The prequalification questionnaire and method of evaluation;
Standard bidding documents including instructions to bidders,
general conditiens of contract and even technical technical
technical specifications in some cases.
5. Margins of Preference
Where ICB procedures are used, goods manufactured in the region would
be given a margin of preference of 15? or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is less. The preferences allowed by IDA for local manufacturers
in the award of contracts under ICB do not apply under LCB even in cases
where foreign firms and neighboring countries are permitted to bid.



-102 -                           ANNEX 24
Page 3 of 6
CAPE VERDE
Primary Education Upgrading Project
Textbook Procurement Procedures
l.        TECHNICAL SHEETS
(a)  Method of Procurement for Proiect books The Project will buy
approximately 399,000 books for pupils and teachers. Six titles
are revised reprints and 21 titles are new books to be created
and published within the Project. Depending upon the allocation
of rights regarding ownership of film and publishing rights
agreed in the contract between the MOE and the Portuguese
publisher, Asa (the contract was not available when the appraisal
mission was in the field), a different method of procurement may
be necessary for the reprinted books. If the film belongs to the
MOE and if Asa hold no rights whatsoever in the materials, images
and ideas - ie Asa performed an outright service for the HOE for
which they were completely reimbursed and have no further
financial interest in the books nor legal rights over their use -
then procurement by ICB of reprinted copies is possible.
ICB procurement of new books
The broad outline of the procurement shows two steps:-
Ist - preselection of publishers on qualitative grounds
2nd - competitive tender decided basically on costs.
(i) A list of pre-selected publishers is established
before the tender is announced.
After advertising the RCV's intention to pre-select, interested
publishers are told of the aim to produce low-cost books to fit
the reformed curriculum, avoiding excessive illustration, using
colour only where pedagogically necessary, seeking low-cost
printing sources, and using low-cost typesetting and
manufacturing processes for teachers' books. Copyright is owned
by MOE. Bids will be per lot of books in a series, where
possible. Publishers who wish to be placed on the pre-selected
list should offer the followingt
- experience in publishing primary education textbooks and
teacher guides for use in developing countries;
- editorial staff experienced in developing manuscripts and
producing books in Portuguese;
- experience of low-cost book production.
Successful publishers are informed and advised of the probable
tender date.
(ii) When the final draft of the new curriculum has been
prepared, publishers are sent it, the tender documents and
instructions, the book lots, the textbook specifications (9e),



ANNEX 24
Page 4 of 6
- 103 -
author team framework, writing-testing-revising-publishing-
delivery schedule, delivery ports, editorial visits required,
nature of manuscript development and role of publisher. They are
also asked to offer ways to reduce origination and manufacturing
costs while retaining the objectiva of a three-year book life.
They are informed of the importance of low-cost reprints in
planning their offers and asked to quote for reprinting. Payment
is in tranches and inflation in xatetials and book manufacturing
costs is payable if documented. All offers are to be at 1988/89
prices.
Evaluation of offers will begin with the lowest quote and check
that the services offered are sufficient to produce the books
within the required time and with close cooperation between
editor and writers.
Technical assistance will be provided to assist in the writing of
all documents for the tender, including evaluation guidelines;
also in evaluating the bids and in preparing contracts.
Procurement of revised editions of books. Should Asa hold
publishing rights in the books to be revised in the Project, then
the following method of procurement will be used.
Asa are asked to quote for publishing the revised editions on the
basis of marked-up copies of the first editions showing the
changes required. They are informed that the quotation must show
the following breakdown costs: overhead including profit;
origination, printing, binding and materials costs from three
international sources known for competitive printing prices;
shipping and insurance from each source country to Mindelo and
Praia.
(a) Book needs. The following table shows projected book needs of
any one title from the time the first Project books will be
available in schools (1991) until 1998. The following
assumptions have been made:
1. Demand will be equal for all subject books and each pupil will
have his own copies.
2. Books used by pupils will last for 3 years maximum.
3. At the end of the first year of use, 751 of books used by
pupils will be usable (secondhand books).
4. At the end of the second year of use, 33Z of the secondhand
books will be usable (thirdhand books).
5. Books used by teachers will last for four years maximum.



-104-                       ANNEX 24
Page 5 of 6
6. At the end of each year of use, lOZ of teachers' guides will
be lostldamaged.
7. There will be an average of 1 teacher per 36 pupils.
8. Books will be supplied free to teachers and each teacher will
have the appropriate teacher guides and pupils' textbook for
the class he teaches.
9. New books will be required to make up the shortfall caused by
population growth and loss/damage.
(d) Manuscript development and book publishing arrasAgements
Authors
National authors will be drawn in part from those preparing the
reformed curriculum in INFIP. The 4-week training seminar for
authors will require them, temporarily, to stop curriculum
development. Extra authors will be needed to complete the
manuscript development within the time allowed. The latter will
be drawn from educationalists, including the inspectorate and
secondary school teachers.
Total number of authors required                    = 25
INPIP permanent staff available                     =  3
INFIP temporary staff available                     =  9
Therefore outside authors to be found in 1988       = 13
Author payments will be on a fee basis for 13 "outside" authors
and as salaries for 12 permanent and temporary INFIP staff, with
short service contracts for outside and temporary INFIP autl'ors
to cover occasional work on revising manuscripts and on reading
proofs. Copyright in all manuscripts will belong to the MOE and
authors will agree to this in the contracts they receive to write
the required manuscripts.
Santa Cruz manuscript testing
The writing teams and schedules result from the Santa Cruz
implementation schedule. This gives the following
interrelationshipss
Writing        Santa Cruz    Revising/Rublishing
1988-9    Grades 1 + 3 + 5
1989-90   Grades 2 + 4 + 6       1 + 3
1990-1                           2 + 4              1 + 3
1991-2                           5 + 6              2 + 4
1992-3                                              5 + 6



- 105 -                           ANNEX2
Page 6 of 6
The materials Development Unit will prepare manuscripts and
provide illustrations for duplicating as booklets for the Santa
Cruz schools.
Joint Publication
The services of experienced educational publishers are necessary
to achieve the publishing programme. Selection will be by
preselection and competitive tender. Publishers will be required
to work with the teams of authors from the very beginning, i.e.
as soon as the reformed curriculum is ready. Publishers will
develop synopses with teams of authors, number of words, number
and type of illustrations, etc. They will read parts of
manscripts and advise the authors on improvements. They will
take as the basis the production specifications (9e) on which
they will have based their offer. The Materials Development Unit
will assist as fas as possible in liaison, illustrations and
proof-reading.
The publishing contract will assign the copyright in the
published books to the MOE. The film will be the property of the
MOE. Publishing rights royalty to be paid to the MOE should
copies or subidiary rights be sold outside RCV. In this way the
Materials Development Unit and MOE will have ready access to
publishing expertise and the international printing market.
Reprints
Because of the pilot-testing in Santa Cruz, reprints after 3
years should be straightforward with minimal correction. Book
prices will be fixed on this basis; therefore, there will be no
money in the Textbook Revolving Fund to pay for anything but
light corrections. The Materials Development Unit will be
responsible for liaison on technical matters between the MOE and
the publisher.



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
Suamarv Accounts bv Year
Totals Including Contingencies                             Totals Including Contingencies
(C.V.ESCUDOS '000)                                             (US$ '000)
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    Total    1987  1988 19  1990  191l  1992  1993 Total
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. SITE DEVELOPMENT WORK                                   -       -   2,088   1,342       960        -       -    4,389      -    -   29   19      13       -    -      61
B. CONSTRUCTION                                            -       -   9,680  13,368  10,473          -       -   334521      -    -  134  185    145        -    -    463
C. FURNITURE                                               -   2,201        -   1,357   1067          -       -    4,625      -   30    -   19      15       -    -      64
D. EQUIPMENT                                               -  12,443   4,931   1,878       482       -        -   19,735      -  172   68   26       7       -    -    273
E. TEXTBOOKS i TEACHING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES             -   3t537   5,014   1,522  12?820  22t778  29,544   75,214         -   49   69   21    177    315  408  l1039
F. TEACHER AND STAFF TRAINING                          4,043   2t267      397     425      722     775      834    9,462    56   31    5    6       10      11   12    131
G. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                                 4,936  14,889   7,622   7,811   5,002   2t995   2,356   45,611    68  206  105  108          69      41   33    630
H. LOCAL CONSULTANTS                                   19790   9?256   7,142   2,709   2t466   1t350          -   24,712    25  128   99   37       34      19    -    341
1. FELLONSHIPS AND STUDY TOURS                         St189   SlB11   8,612   4,509         -       -        -   30,122   113  122  119   62        -       -    -    416
J. STUDIES                                                 -     845      873        -       -        _       -    1,718      -   12   12    -        -      -    -      24
K. ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING FEES                    698   14870      400     429      460        -       -    3,857    10   26    6    6         6      -    -      53
L. Project Administration Costs                            -   1,302   1,393   1,492   1,600   1,720   1,027    8,534         -   18   19   21      22      24   14    118
M. PROJECT PREPARAlION                                     -       -        -       -   4,307   4,527         -    8,834      -    -    -    -      59      63    -    122
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                   19,656  57,421  48,1S3  36,840  40t358  34,145  33,760  2'?A333   271  793  665  509    557    472  466  39734
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. STAFr SALARIES                                     1,941       -        -       -        -   4S054   49378   10,373    27    -    -    -         -      56   60    143
B. TEACHER SALARIES                                       -       -        -       -  54,369  26,037         -   80,405      -    -    -    -    751    360    -  1b1il
C. Incremental Operating Costs                          263     784  1318   1,411   1,424   3,319   3,567   12,085          4   11   18   19      20      46   49    167
D. Student Teachers Fellowshies                           -       -        -       -        -   5,681   6,107   11,788       -    -    -    -       -      78   84    163
Total RECURRENT CMSTS                                     2,204     784   1W318   1,411  55,792  39,091  14,052  114s652    30   11   1B   19    771    540  194  1.584   sVl
=C====== ======  ===:==S=== =     --  ----------=_=                   === ==__: ===5==__G- =-=  = ==G==  == ====== 
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       21,860  58s204  49,471  38,251  96,150  73,236  47,812  384v985   302  804  683  528  Ir328  1012  660  5,317
-A-                                      --u-t----- :== 1987  17=                             _    =     =-__==== ===            _- =                          --
A'jgust 14, 1987 17:02



REPUIIC OF CAPE VRDE
PRIIY EJ TION IlPPRDIHC PROJECT
Projert Coepor*nts h  Year
Totals Includirng Continsencies                          Totals Ircludinr  Cwntwrbcies
(C.V.ESCUMS '000)                                            (USS '000)
1987    1988    1989    1990    177,1    1992    193    Total    1987 1988 1989 1990  1991   192  1093 Total
====%  =====  ==== ==   == = === .= = t=r=i              = .U=:=s ...... == == z=_cc=: = r==c- == -== c===== . ... ===: .
A. ESTALISIW  OF SIX - YEAR INTEGRATED PRIffRY EDUCM TION SYSTEtl        7,464   9971'  6'sZS  2.813   2,993   l,84   I C:0'  32,705   103  134   94   39          41     26   14    452
P. LPGRADING GUMITY OF PRTIARY SCHQOL TEACHS
- - - - -- - - - - -- -- --- - -- -- -- -- ----
1. PRESERVICE TEACMER TRAINING                                        7W729  8W414  12r169  18,373  13,441  12,525  13,483   86,133   107  116  168  254    186    173  186  lr190
2. PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACNER UPGRADING                                     804  4W604   4,133   3,824  57,084  27,042   1,052   78,543   1t   64   5.  53    788    374   15  1t361
Sub-Total UP6RADING GUALITY OF PRIMARY SCDOOL TEACERS                   8.532  134018  16,302  2Is197  70,525  39,566  14.535  184,676   119  190  225  307    974   546  201  2.551
C. INCREASING AVAILAULItY OF TEXT900%S AMD TEACHING MATERIALS            4,002  14.586   6.642   2,404  139122  24,007  30,365   95,129    55  201   72   33    181    332  41?  19314
0, IMPROVING EDIUCAtON SECTOR MANAG6ENT                                  1,862  20t896  1?9720  10.83'   9.510   7*68   1,892    2 ,' 47     ' 26 88  272  150    131    107   26  1,001
Total POJECT COSTS                                                        21.860  580204  49.471  3e8251  96.150  73.236  4t,812  304. e5   302  804  683  528  1t,28  1,012  640  5.317
August 14, 1987  17:02
Ib
so
a



- 108-                                     ANNEX 25
Page 3 of 3
CAPE VERDE: PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT
EXPENDITURE AND DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
I - T            - __-             _ _-r  _                                     1- 93f<* 4e      100%
93% *93%
09- ---
08 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~5
I74%&16
be 0 6 ----_    _
0>  -                -                                 52%
142%I
3   II', 33%
03__________________________________                                  _____________     ____   ____
02-CA CAUNDA PROEC :-    -I__-------:-------------:POIE
* '3% 24
-   17%
*        .     16
__.1 _   _'- - - _'  -__ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ -__ _ __ _ _ ____  ___  ___   ____ ___________
87/1 87/2 88/1 88/2 89/1 89/2 90/1 90/2 91/1 91(2 92/1 92/2 93/1 93/2 94/1 94/2 95/1
CALENDAR YEAR
....  EXPENDITURES                   -    DISBURSEMENTS                        REGIONAL PROFILE
EXPENDITURE AND DISBURSEMIENT SCHEDLUL
(US$ '000)
--------               ----         ------------------                     --  ----------- ---
EXPENDITURE         :   CREDIT DISSURSEMENT    :REGIONAL
FISCAL  CALENDAR  PROJECT    ---                       -----: ---PROFILE
YEAR/SEM YEAR/SEM YEAR/SEN   Period    Cumul  X Total   Period    Cumul  X Total : Cumul X
87/2     87/1      0    :        0        89         X:       0        0         O%:       Ox:
88/1     87/"     1/1   :      802      82S        6X:      80        as0        1:        2X:
S8/2     88/1     1/2   :      402      704        18X:     800      860         OX:       6X:
89/1     88/2     2/1          402     10e6        21X:     820      640   e 8a:          II%:
89/2     69/1     2/2   :      84      1447        27:      8m0      960        2X:       17X:
90/1     89/2     8/1   :      842     1789        84%:     800     1260        8%:       24%:
90/2     90/1     8/2   :      24      2068        89X:    820      1g80       83X:       88X:
91/1     90/2     4/1   :      264     2817        44x:    820      1900        45%:      42%:
91/2     91/1     4/2   :      528     2848        68%:    420      2820        56%:      52%:
92/1     91/2     6/1   :      526     8869        88%:     420     2740        66%:      61%:
92/2     92/1     8/2   :      582     8951        74:      440     8180        76%:      70X:
98/1     92/2     6/1   :      52      4588        851:     440     8820        86x:      77%:
93/2     98/1     6/2          3 92    4925        98%:    290      8910        98%:      84%:
94/1     93/2     7/1          3 92    6817       100%:    290      4200       100:       SOX:
94/2     94/1     7/2   :                                                                 94%:
95/1     94/2     8/1   ::                                                                96%:
95/2     95/1     8/2                                                                    I :  100%:
TOTAL                   53617    6817      100%:   4200       4200       110%:     100%:



PoAto do Sol
Chodo Ijr.Io            Vito dos
Jooo Rodahdo'oro         *P
R-bevro do Cr
]f C               -              SANTO ANTAO                                                                                          CAPE    vE
*oo6iNovoE                                                                                                                       V     E
Tat(ot. l X    Jf  oto Prt NvoPRIMARY EDUCATION UPC
loieotol       ,
de Mor e ?,.go
MINDELO      O
PoloGo"&e ,   ~          SAO  VICENTE
Coihou
Sao Prtd,O . IX
Soe Pedro             SANTA lUZIA
rnc Ri    bunda    SAO  NICOLAU
Branco                    - kVila do tibetro
Pteo lro                   M.e ta
Raso Bittili j~~~~~~~~Coffsalhi
/     EBI Implementation arep
.......   Council Boundaries
13     Institute of Educotion - Location Prato
O     Minisrty of Educatios, offices In the councils
-16'
Main ports
Other ports
lsobaths Depth) in meters
We    Reefs
Wrecks
Main foads
*      Notionol LOpital
KILOMETERS 9      IP      20        30      40     so      60
o     Towns                                       MIlES                                                     40
Elevations in meters,
1000<
500- 1000                                                                                                              SANTIAGO
i  ;   ir>hi             -  t1L                     f        tX                            ;[ So
R~~b.Iro do Boycei d  Mw
MAVRITANIAII MtTO
CA Rt vtoot                        MAhI                                                                                              Porte Ririco.'
$tNtOA,)  ~~~~~-'                     Secos                               av
GiJTNIA  -.~~~  ~~ -- V1%  ~ ~  *d.F /                                                                  PortoGovi
~~it5ftA. N                                                                                                              Cidad. SaoVeih o   PRAI A CWO
1I6h                     BRAVAe\
___________________________________I L24~



IBRD 20648
24'                                                                                   2
C A P E   V E R D E
PRIMARY EDUCATION UPGRADING PROJECT                                                                                              17'
.NTE
4TA LUZIA                                                                                                                                                   PedrodL
SAO NICOLAU                                                                                                               SAL
Bra,1nco     Po Brai       9       adeRibeir.
Roso        Bor d                                  astdAno                                                                                        . Sonto Maria
J-  ?      Goto
Walde Sal- 0,
BOA VISTA              ''PJ'T
lion Prala
In the countcls
Jo_ tBBrroso          164
*  rrol ho
KILOMETERS .     10       20      30      40      S0      60
MILES             10           2b           3            4
Tarrorel  ~oSANTIAGO                                 -            to Antonio
de Sn
rAludnas  do Montn          Colhto
w'   CODW             ~~MO:rI            MAIO
R;botrt do Barco                      Vilo do Mono   - filp.'o do Horto
Rlbtinho  Porto oa Bo w   w       B    T          PrO
35            S       o       a                                  Parta Rlhcoo                                                                               ra'  ca'..w'r. thors  >sttd  15--
So Of Th.e b4" ft,*
FOGO     Porto C-ou                                                                        c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oraft~ D.WOOn obFOb
* SP O- MOE Headquorters                                 VW bftlw_   ~
G" fiewita    ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ndS  oIo                 PRAIA                                                    Sof P* Oy9rf'l a" o *
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r r Te90DO 5W50 ft
Pnw --- tP* CWV tSO
of ony Mf,forv &        1 t'
III!Y 1OA7



