Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1853 CV
(Primary Education Upgrading Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 17, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1853 CV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1987, between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
October 26, 1987 and November 16, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association;
(c)
"MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
 
(d)
"MOE's Organic Law" means the law enacted by the Borrower governing the 
new administrative structure and functions of MOE's institutional units;
(e)
"Institute of Education" means the Borrower's institute responsible for 
pre-service and in-service training for primary school teachers, and for developing, 
evaluating and monitoring programs, manuscripts and examinations relative to basic 
education.
(f)
"EBI" means the unitary six-year cycle for basic education with an 
integrated curriculum to be established pursuant to the objectives of the Borrower's 
Second National Development Plan of December 1986;
(g)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(h)
"Teaching materials" means materials and supplies for primary school 
teachers' use in their functions, but excluding textbooks and teachers' guides;
(i)
"School supplies" means materials and supplies for primary school pupils' 
use;
(j)
"C.V. Esc." means Cape Verde Escudos, the currency of the Borrower;
 
(k)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from January 1 
to December 31;
(l)
"School Year" means the Borrower's primary school year which runs from 
October 1 to June 30; and
(m)
"Municipality of Santa Cruz" means an administrative area located on the 
island of Santiago in the Borrower's territory.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,300,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit 
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 1997 and ending June 1, 2027. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2007 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MOE, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources and make the 
appropriate budgetary allocations required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) allocate in its budget funds sufficient to cover 
the Borrower's counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project; (ii) open 
exclusively for the purposes of the Project and thereafter maintain in C.V. Esc. a 
commercial bank, a Project Account; (iii) make an initial deposit in the Project 
Account, in an amount equivalent to $75,000; and (iv) thereafter replenish said 
Project Account, as and when required, to ensure that, on the first day of each 
calendar quarter of each year the Project is executed, the amount estimated to be 
required to cover expenditures for the Project during such quarter, which are not 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, is available therein.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ, at all times throughout the execution 
of the Project, the following key staff all with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
Project Director;
 
(b)
Deputy Project Director; and
 
(c)
Accountant.
 
Section 3.O3. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For purposes of Part B.1, 2 and 3 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
not later than January 31, 1988, prepare and furnish to the Association 
for its review and comment:
(i)
in-service and pre-service training programs for primary school 
teachers;
(ii)
draft regulations governing of certification and salary status for 
teachers 
having successfully completed in-service and pre-service 
training programs;
(b)
not later than June 30, 1988, approve the training programs and 
regulations referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section paying due regard to any 
comments made by the Association; and
(c)
not later than January 31, 1989, implement said programs and put into 
effect said regulations.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than March 31, 1991, conduct a mid-term review jointly with the 
Association on: (i) progress made in achieving Project objectives; (ii) MOE's budget 
projections for the following five years; (iii) effectiveness of MOE's revised 
administrative framework; and (iv) the design of a detailed work program for the 
Page  5
countrywide implementation of EBI; and 
(b)
promptly thereafter, put into effect the recommendations arising out of 
said review, as determined in agreement with the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than August 31, in each year, 
review jointly with the Association:
(i)
proposed budgetary allocations to and within MOE for the following 
Fiscal Year;
 
(ii)
progress achieved by MOE's institutional units in the 
implementation of their 
annual work programs;
 
      (iii)
progress achieved towards the implementation of EBI in the 
Municipality of 
Santa Cruz; and
 
(b)
promptly thereafter, put into effect the recommendations arising out of 
said review, as determined in agreement with the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1988:
(a)
set annual targets concerning the pupil/teacher ratio; and
 
(b)
implement all necessary measures to increase said pupil/teacher ratio to 
36:1 between the school years of 1988/89 and 1993/94.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than August 31, 1991, implement cost 
recovery systems for textbooks and school supplies, including the establishment of a 
Textbook Revolving Fund and a School Supplies  Revolving Fund, respectively, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than January 31, 1988, approve a system of automatic promotion 
for students in basic education on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(b)
not later than September 30, 1992, implement the system mentioned in 
paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure that all MOE 
staff having received training abroad financed under the Project remain in their 
assignments for a period of at least three years after completion of such training.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
Page  6
             (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
MOE's Organic Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower's legal instruments creating and organizing the Institute of 
Education shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement; and
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action concerning primary school teachers' status and salaries that would 
materially and adversely affect the objectives of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
MOE's Organic Law has been enacted;
 
(b)
the Institute of Education has been legally established;
 
(c)
the staff referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement have been 
appointed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; and
(d)
the Project Account referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement has 
Page  7
been opened and the initial deposit has been made therein.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 and the 
provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on 
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years 
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Financas
C.P. 30
Praia
Cabo Verde
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANCAS
6058 MCECV
Cabo Verde
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
By /s/ Andre Corsino Tolentino
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Page  8
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit  to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works              380,000            85%
     for Part B.4
     of the Project
(2)  Furniture, equip-        950,000            100% of foreign
     ment, materials,                            expenditures,
     supplies and                                100% of local
     textbooks                                   expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                 and 80% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(3)  Consultants'ser-         860,000            100%
     vices including
     audits and
     fellowships
(4)  Studies for              100,000            100%
     Part E of the
     Project
(5)  Operating costs           90,000            100% of foreign
     of MOE                                      expenditures and
                                                 50% of local
                                                 expenditures
(6)  Salary increase of       500,000            80% in 1991 and
     upgraded primary                            1992
     teachers for
     Part B.3 of the
     Project
(7)  Refunding of              80,000            Amount due
     Project Prepa-                              pursuant to
     ration Advance                              Section 2.02 (b)
                                                 of this Agreement
(8)  Unallocated              340,000
                            _________
         TOTAL              3,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
Page  9
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "operating costs of MOE" means: maintenance costs of equipment, 
vehicles and buildings of MOE related to the Project; student evaluation and testing 
costs; Project administration costs; costs of distribution of textbooks and school 
supplies; and per diem for primary teachers and trainers under Part B.1 of the 
Project; and
(d)
the term "salary increase of upgraded primary teachers" means: increased 
costs of salaries for primary teachers who have successfully completed of the 
in-service training program referred to in Part B.1 of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
 
(b)
payments for expenditures under Category (1), unless the Association 
shall be satisfied with the architectural plans and building and equipping 
specifications for the Institute of Education under Part B.4 of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the 
efficiency and quality of its basic education system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Restructuring Basic Education
 
1.
Development of the curriculum, teaching materials, pedagogical methods and 
examination and promotion policies for EBI.
2.
Implementation and evaluation of EBI in the Municipality of Santa Cruz.
 
Part B:
Upgrading the Quality of Primary School Teachers
 
1.
In-service teacher training for about 1,200 primary school teachers in basic 
education and pedagogical skills to teach the EBI curriculum.
2.
Pre-service teacher training for an enrollment of about 210 primary school 
teacher trainees per year.
3.
Adjustment of the status of upgraded primary school teachers.
 
4.
Construction, equipping and furnishing of new office and non-residential 
training facilities for the Institute of Education.
Part C:
Increasing the Availability of Textbooks, Teaching Materials and School 
Supplies
1.
Strengthening of textbook preparation, distribution and cost recovery methods 
and procedures.
2.
Preparation, printing and distribution of about 440,000 new and revised primary 
textbooks and teachers' guides.
3.
Acquisition and distribution of teaching materials and school supplies.
 
Part D:
Improvement of Education Sector Management
 
Development and implementation of MOE's:
Page  10
(a)
administrative reorganization;
 
(b)
procedures for the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of work 
programs; and
(c)
staff training program.
 
Part E:
Studies
 
Carrying out of studies on:
1.
cost and financing of education; and
 
2.
low-cost methods of school construction.
 
*        *        *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Cape Verde may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local Competitive bidding
 
Civil works and furniture may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Association.
2.
International or Local Shopping
 
Office materials and school supplies, estimated to cost less than the equivalent 
of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$60,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Direct Contracting
 
The distribution of school supplies and textbooks from the Borrower's ports of 
entry to the district warehouses may be procured under direct contracting in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
Page  11
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Project Management
 
(a)
Under the supervision of the Minister of Education, the Director do 
Gabinete de Estudos e PlanificacUo of MOE (the DGEP) shall be responsible for the 
overall management of Parts A, B, C, D (c) and E of the Project and the Director 
General of Administration of MOE (the DGA) shall be responsible for the overall 
management of Part D (a) and (b) of the Project.
(b)
In discharging his responsibilities under the Project, the DGEP shall be 
assisted by a Deputy and shall report directly to the Minister of Education. The 
Deputy Project Director (the DAP) who shall be employed on a full-time basis shall be 
responsible for day-to-day activities concerning curriculum, teaching materials 
development and in-service and pre-service primary teacher training, and for the 
implementation and evaluation of EBI in the Municipality of Santa Cruz.
(c)
To ensure adequate coordination of Project activities, a Project Advisory 
Committee made up of the DGEP (chairman), the Director General of Education (the DGE), 
the DGA, the Inspector General of Education of MOE (the IG), the Director General of 
Public Works of the Ministry responsible for public works and the DAP, shall meet at 
least on a quarterly basis to review progress and plan future Project activities.
(d)
The DGEP, assisted by the DGA, shall be responsible for the physical 
implementation of the Project and for Project financing, disbursements and 
procurement.
2.
Part A of the Project
 
Page  12
(a)
Implementation of EBI
 
EBI shall be implemented in the Municipality of Santa Cruz, in three phases as 
follows:
(i)
Grades 1 and 3, not later than September 30, 1989;
 
(ii)
Grades 2 and 4, not later than September 30, 1990; and
 
(iii)
Grades 5 and 6, not later than September 30, 1991.
 
(b)
Promotion System and Examination
 
The system of automatic promotion for students shall be implemented in the 
Municipality of Santa Cruz according to the following timetable:
(i)
Grade 1, not later than September 30, 1991;
 
(ii)
Grade 3, not later than September 30, 1993; and
 
(iii)
Grade 5, not later than September 30, 1995.
 
The Evaluation Unit of the Institute of Education and the Inspectorate-General 
of Education of MOE shall prepare and establish national standards and norms, and 
administer school examinations. New examinations shall be introduced in the 
Municipality of Santa Cruz as follows:
(i)
Grade 2, not later than September 30, 1992;
 
(ii)
Grade 4, not later than September 30, 1994; and
 
(iii)
Grade 6, not later than September 30, 1996.
 
3.
Part B of the Project
 
In-service Teacher Training
Implementation of the four-year in-service training program shall be the joint 
responsibility of the Inspectorate-General of Education and the Institute of 
Education.
Pre-Service Teacher Training
Implementation and coordination of two pre-service training programs shall be 
the responsibility of the Institute of Education.
4.
Part C of the Project
 
Preparation of the textbook manuscripts shall be the responsibility of the 
Institute of Education. Textbook and school supply procurement, management of textbook 
and school supply sales, operation of the Textbook Revolving Fund and of the School 
Supplies Revolving Fund, and supervision of textbook and school supply distribution 
arrangements shall be the responsibility of the DGA, assisted by the DGE.
5.
Part D of the Project
 
The implementation and coordination of the administrative reorganization of MOE 
shall be the responsibility of the DGA assisted by the IG and the Adviser to the 
Minister of Education.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
Page  13
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the 
amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories  shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
Page  14
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
