CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 186 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 22, 1970


﻿I
CREDIT NUMBER 186 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 22, 1970


﻿lw
DrorlopmunI TrOff A.9ruut
AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 1970 between the ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association);
WHEREAs by a development credit agreement dated March
6, 1969 between the Borrower and the Association, the
Association has granted to the Borrower a development
credit in various currencies equivalent to $16,000,000 for a
telecommunications project, which is expected to be com-
pleted by June 30, 1972.
WHEREAS the Association is willing at this time to grant a
second development credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The Borrower aid the Association accept
all the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in the Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "First Development Credit Agreement" means the
development credit agreement dated March 6, 1969 between
S


﻿4
the Borrower and the Association and referred to in the
preamble to this Agreement;
(b) 'T & T" means the Telegraph and Telephone De-
partment of the Ministry of Communications of the Bor-
rower, and includes any other department, agency or entity
which shall perform in whole or in part the telecommunica-
tions services theretofore performed by such Department;
and
(c) "Program" means all expansion schemes described
in at least one of the following: (i) the Project, (ii) the
project described in the First Development Credit Agree-
ment, (iii) the telecommunication sector plan included in
the revised Third Five-Year Plan of the Borrower, and
(iv) such part of the telecommunication sector plan in-
cluded in the Borrower's Fourth Five-Year Plan, the execu-
tion of which is scheduled to be undertaken before June 30,
1973, as shall be agreed to by the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million
dollars ($15,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, the Development
Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from time
to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by


﻿5
further agreement between the Borrower and the Ass,-
ciation.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account such amounts as shall have
been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, as shall be
required to meet payments to be made) for the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to
be financed under the Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made on account of payments: (i) under any of the
Categories I (a), II and III of the allocation of t3he proceeds
of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the terri-
tories of the Borrower, or (ii) for taxes imposed by the
Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on, or in con-
nection with the importation or supply of, any of the goods
or services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3% of 17') per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 1 and August
1 commencing August 1, 1980 and ending February 1, 2020,
each installment to and including the installment payable
on February 1, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (/2 of


﻿I
6
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (112%) of such prin-
cipal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement to expenditures on the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969,
and in accordance with such other procedures supple-
mentary thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, and (ii) all contracts for the procurement of
any of the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be subject to the prior approval
of the Association except as otherwise provided in such
Schedule 3.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used ex-
clusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause T & T to
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with sound engineering, financial and public
utility practices, and shall make available, promptly as


﻿7
needed, all funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without limiting or restricting the Borrower's ob-
ligations under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to T & T on
the basis of reimbursement by T & T over a period of
twenty- four years from the Effective Date of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, including therein a period of grace
of four years, and subject to charges of six and one quarter
per cent (61/4c) per annum on the aggregate amounts of
the proceeds of the Credit so made available and outstand-
ing from time to time.
SECTIO, 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause T $  T at all
times to manage its affairs and carry on its operations, in-
eluding its financial operations, in accordance with sound
management and financial practices, with the assistance of
adequate qualified and experienced staff and under the
supervision of competent and experienced management.
(b) Until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause T & T to increase its staff productivity to such level
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, by reducing the ratio of staff employed to number of
stations in service.
(c) The Borrower shall at all times cause T & T to
operate and maintain its plant, equipment and property,
and to make promptly all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause T & T to
furnish to the Associttion, promptly upon their prepara-
tion, the reports, studies, plans, specifications, work and
procurement schedules for, or in connection with, the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications subsequently made
therein, in such detail as the Association shall from time to
time request.


﻿8
(b) The Borrower shall cause T & T to maintain records
adequate: (i) to identify at all times the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and (ii) upon the
establishment of the accounting system referred to in Part
IV of the project described in the First Development Credit
Agreement, and at all times thereafter, to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations and financial condition of T & T.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to inspect the Project, T & T's properties, equip-
ment and operations, including the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish or cause T & T to fur-
nish to the Association all such information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request concerning the expenditures
of the proceeds of the Credit, the goods and services fi-
nanced out of such proceeds, the Project and the manat-
ment, operations and financial condition of T & T.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to: (i) the administration and fi-
nancial operations of T & T and of any other agency or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof and (ii) financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views


﻿I
9
through their representatives with regard to matters re-
lating to the purposes of the Credit and the maintenance of
the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of (i) any proposed material changes in the structure, or-
ganization, powers or responsibilities of T & T and (ii)
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the per-
formance by the Borrower of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. Until the establishment of the accounting
system referred to in Part IV of the project described in
the First Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower
shall effect no reduction in its telecommunication tariffs
without the agreement of the Association.
SECTION 4.06. (a) After the accounting system referred
to in Part IV of the project described in the First Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall have been established, the
Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain, telecom-
munication tariffs and a level of operating expenses which
shall provide to T & T operating income sufficient to pro-
duce an annual return on the net fixed assets in operation
of T & T of not less thaa 10%e, or such other percentage
as may be agreed from time to time between the Borrower
and the Association.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated
by using as the denominator the value of net fixed
assets in operation of T & T at the beginning, and at


﻿10
the end of the year in question, and dividing the total
by two, plus an amount as working capital eqiial
4% of such average net fixed assets in operation and,
as the numerator, an amount equal to the operating
income of T & T for that year.
(ii) The term "value of net fixed assets in opera-
tion of T & T1" means the gross value of fixed assets
in operation of T & T as revalued from time to time,
based on appropriate valuation methods approved by
the Association, less accumulated straight-line de-
preciation.
(iii) The term 'operating income" means the dif-
ference between operating revenues and operating
expenses.
(iv) The term 'operating revenues" means all
revenues from T & T's telecommunication operations
and other revenues incidental thereto.
(v) The term "operating expenses" means all
costs of operation by T & T of its telecommunication
facilities, including overhead costs, maintenance ex-
penses, and adequate provision for straight-line de-
preciation at a rate of at least 5% per annum and
for the contribution to the Borrower defined in Sec-
tion 4.07 (b) below, but excluding interest and other
charges on debt.
(c) Section 4.06 (a) of the First Developmont Agreement
is deleted and the following is substituted in lieu thereof:
"After the accounting system referred to in Part IV
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment shall have been established, the Borrower shall
establish and thereafter maintain telecommunication
tariffs and a level of operating expenses which shall
provide to T & T operating income sufficient to pro-
duce an annual return on the net fixed assets In op-
eration of T & T of not less than 10%, or such other
percentoge as may be agreed from time to time be-
tween the Borrower and the Association."


﻿11
SECTION 4.07. (a) Until the establishment of the ac-
counting system referred to in Part IV of the project de-
scribed in the First Development Credit Agreement, the
financial arrangements between the Borrower and T & T
applicable at the date of the First Development Credit
Agreement shall continue to be applied and any change in
such arrangements will be subject to agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
(b) After such accounting system shall have been es-
tablished:
(i) long-term debt of T & T shall be repaid by
T & T out of its operating revenues under the terms
and conditions applicable to such debt, and
(ii) the Borrower shall cause T & T to pay an-
nually to the Borrower out of its operating revenues
a contribution equal to 6% of the Borrower's equity
in T & T, as determined with the assistance of the
consultants retained to assist in carrying out Part IV
of the project described in the First Development
Credit Agreement, or such other percentage as may
be established from time to time after consultation
between the Borrower and the Association.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "operating revenues" has the mean-
ing set forth in Section 4.06 (b) of this Agreement;
and
(ii) the term "long-term debt of T & T1" shall
mean all debt incurred by or for the benefit of T & T
which will mature by its terms more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
SECTION 4.08. (a) Until the establishment of the account-
ing system referred to in Part IV of the project described
in the First Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower
shall submit to the Association, promptly upon their prep-
aration, the annual budget accounts relating to T & T.


﻿I
12
(b) After such accounting system shall have been estab-
lished, the Borrower shall have T & T's accounts audited
annually by competent and experienced auditors acceptable
to the Association, and shall promptly after the audited
statements (balance sheet, operating statement and sources
and uses of funds statements) are available, and not later
than six months after the close of the fiscal year to which
they apply, transmit to the Association certified copies of
such statements and a signed copy of the auditor's report.
SECTION 4.09. The Borrower shall promptly pay to the
account of T & T's revenues, on a current basis, all charges
incurred by the Borrower or by any of its departments,
agencies or instrumentalities in respect of telecommunica-
tion services furnished by T & T.
SECTION 4.10. The Borrower undertakes to insure or
cause to be insured the imported goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and de-
livery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by T & T to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 4.11. Prior to the completion of the Project,
the Borrower shall ensure that no major expansions of
telecommunication facilities other than as provided in the
Program shall be undertaken without prior consultation and
agreement with the Association. The term "major expan-
sion" shall mean any expansion scheme or project, the
total expenditures for which are expected to exceed the
equivalent of two million dollars ($2,000,000).
SECTION 4.12. (a) Until the establishment of the ac-
counting system referred to in Part IV of the project de-
scribed in the First Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall ensure that no debt, other than for money
borrowed under terms and conditions acceptable to the


﻿13
Association for financing the Program, shall be incurred
by or for the benefit of T & T withcut prior consultation
with or approval by the Association.
(b) After such accounting system shall have been estab-
lished, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt for the benefit of T & T,
or cause any debt to be so incurred, unless T & T 's net
revenues for the preceding fiscal year or for any later
twelve-month period, whichever is the greater, shall be at
least 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement for
any succeeding fiscal year on all debt including the debt to
be incurred.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) Debt incurred for the benefit of T & T means
all indebtedness incurred by the Borrower or others,
for the purpose of financing the operations or invest-
ments of T & T, including debt for the service of
which T & T is responsible, which will mature by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred.
(ii) The term "incur " with reference to any debt
includes any modification of the terms of payment of
such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the
date of execution and delivery of a contract, loan
agreement or other instrument providing for such
debt or for the refinancing of such debt.
(iii) The term "net revenues" means operating
revenues, adjusted to take account of T & T's tariffs
in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even
though they were not in effect during the fiscal year
or twelve-month period to which such revenues re-
late, less all operating, maintenance and overhead
expenses and provisions for the contribution to the
Borrower defined in Section 4.07(b) above, but be-
fore provision covering depreciation and debt service
requirements.


﻿14
(iv) The term "operating revenues" has the
meaning set forth in Section 4.oc(b) of this Agree-
ment.
(v) The term "debt service requirement" means
the aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on debt.
(vi) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency
of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the pre-
vailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such
other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of
exchange that will be reasonably determined by the
Association.
SECTION 4.13. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories, and free from all restric-
tions imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in
effect in its territories.
SECTION 4.14. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then, at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal


﻿15
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable im-
mediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with
such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in the Development Credit Agreement to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Termination; Miscellaneous
SECTION 6.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1973, or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association as the Closing
Date.
SECTION 6.02. The date July 31, 1970 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.02 (a) and (c); 4.03; 4.06; 4.07 (b); 4.08 (b) and
4.12(b) of this Agreement shall terminate on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty-four years after the date of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
SECTION 6.04. The Secretary to the Government of Paki-
stan, Economic Affairs Division, is designated for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 6.05. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:
Economic
Islamabad


﻿1
16
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused the Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
IsLAmic REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. R. BASHIR
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
&0


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                         in Dollar Equivalent
I. Microwave system for Part A of
of the Project:
(a) modulating and radio equipment,
including related surveys,
studies, supervision and
training                          6,300,000
(b) multiplex channeling equipment     500,000
II. Cables and related accessories for
Part B of the Project                 5,700,000
III. Air conditioning equipment for Part
C of the Project                      1,500,000
IV. Unallocated                             1,000,000
15,000,000
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I through III shall decrease, the amount
of the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category IV.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I through III shall increase, an amount
equal to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Cate-
gory from Category IV, subject, however, to the require-
ments for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of part of the telecommunication
phase of the Borrower's Five-Year Development Plans and
provides for the modernization and expansion of T & T 's
local and long-distance telecommunication facilities. The
Project consists of the following parts:
A. The installation of a microwave system from Karachi
to Rawalpindi, consisting of two microwave links (of at
least 960 channels each) to Multan, with one continuing to
Rawalpindi and the other branching off to Lyallpur, to-
gether with the associated multiplex equipment, and the
provision of spur connections in particular for Hyderabad-
Mirpur Khas; Darya Khan-D.I. Khan; and Lahore-Gujran-
wala; including all necessary surveys, studies, supervision
and training.
B. The installation during the fiscal years 1970-1972 of
local and junction exchange cables and related accessories
for about 50,000 new telephones included in Part I of the
project described in the First Development Credit Agree-
ment but not financed under such Agreement.
C. The installation during the fiscal years 1970-1972 of
air-conditioning equipment for exchange and transmission
rooms.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1973.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement of Goods
1. Identical or similar items to be procured for the Proj-
ect shall be grouped together wherever practicable for the
purposes of bidding and procurement, and such grouping
of items shall be subject to the approval of the Association.
2. With respect to all procurement contracts involving
expenditures expected to exceed the equivalent of $50,000,
the Borrower shall cause T & T to comply with the follow-
ing procedures:
(a) Invitations to bid, specifications, the proposed terms
and conditions of contracts, and all other tender doc-
uments will be submitted to the Association for re-
view and approval prior to the issuance of invita-
tions to bid, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed.
(b) After bids have been received and analyzed, the anal-
ysis of bids, recommendations of the consulting engi-
neer where applicable, and T & T's proposals for
awards, together with the reasons for such pro-
posals, will be submitted to the Association for re-
view and approval prior to making any award of
contract or issuing any letter of intent.
(c) If the final contract is to differ substantially from the
terms and conditions contained in the respective doc-
uments approved by the Association under para-
graphs (a) and (b) above, the text of the proposed
changes will be submitted to the Association for its
review and approval prior to the execution of such
contract or issuance of any letter of intent.
(d) One conformed copy of any letter of intent issued
and of any contract executed under this paragraph 2
shall be sent to the Association promptly upon its
issuance or execution.


﻿20
3. In respect of items included in Category I(b) of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement, bids will be compared, for
the purpose of awarding contracts, on the basis of the ex-
factory price of the bids submitted by Pakistani manufac-
turers and on the basis of a price, for each bid submitted by
a non-Pakistani manufacturer, consisting of its c.i.f. (Kara-
chi) price plus 15o of such price or the actual rate of
customs duties .and similar taxes paid or to be paid, which-
ever is the lower.
4. With respect to items or groups of items expected to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, copies of all tender
documents, including invitations to bid, bid analyses and
evaluations, as well as one conformed copy of any contract
or letter of intent relating to the procurement of such items
or groups of items, shall be sent to the Association promptly
after the execution of any such contract or issuance of any
such letter of intent and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such contracts
or letters of intent.


