Document of
Im- 1WR1 lUI B-I
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24332
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34850)
ONA
InAW
Di 1'1 AAT TLT OF; US527 M TT 1AW
AL. %L111 ~J '. JW VA AJLM'JIVA1~Ld  A  JL'
T% A INV? A ~YT,r! 7 eT YThWTT A
rAP'U'A INEW GUINEA
FOR 1I=
nof Ol AA AT T LOT T% fl £.RTT P A T MN rmT £.Dl, AIPTRO,  T1fr
?. J L"J  1Lr  L,AA?..JLWALJL.~A% WJLS, A Z%J1VL V A LL  LA...IJLVA1VJJ11 A A £WJAL,., A
VWo I YIhUUZ.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
omciai duties. its contents may not omerwise De aisciosea wimout wornid ank aumornzanon.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Apnil 2002)
Currency Unit   Kina (K)
V I A    T TI A '7J
AN  .V   -    'JUP W.A. I
US$ 1.0    K3.70
FISCAL YEAR
January to Decemor
ABBRE-VIA -1IONS ANUi ACROKN-YMS
A-A TT. A.A fr                    =     Dveo,,e,
tIU~~tU±J  tL&UaUd114R fUU ljUl ±iL~I4UIIaVUU L VVV,1UV1ULQ1
ADB           Asian Development Bank
I-,tz         %.,tUIUuy its-Lblta   wdwgy
CLUA          Clan Land Usage Agreement
.CSTB         Centrai Supply and Tenders Board
DAL           Departnent of Agriculture and Livestock
D-NPM         Department of National Pianning and Monitoring
DoTI          Department of Trade and Industry
DoWT          Department of Works and Transport
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FFB           Fresh Fruit Bunch
GoPNG         Government of Papua New Guinea
HOP           Higaturu Oil Palms
LSS           Land Settlement Scheme
NCD           National Capital District
NEC           National Executive Council
NES           Nucleus Estate and Smallholder
NPV           Net Present Value
OEC           Office of Environment and Conservation
OPIG          "I Palm Industrv Cornoration
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
POPA          Palm Oil Piri,nacm Acnsoiatinn
VAT           Value Added Tax
V %..PAL      v 1J..C%'Sr   GL
'vice President  Jemai-ud-ain Kassum
Country Manager/Director:  Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager/Director   Mark D. Wilson
Task Team Leader/Task Manager     Philippe F. Boyer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ORO SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. ojct Da#                                                                              I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   15
6. Sustainability                                                                       17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        19
8. Lesonns Leamed                                                                       22
9. Partner Comments                                                                     24
:. A         T;ona I ration                                                            29%
IV J1UUMLUUaI ILIIULV UI                                                             4
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   41
Annex 8. Project Map                                                                    42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used-by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
Iwithout World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004389                                      lProject Name: ORO SMLHLDR OIL PALM
Team Leader: Priiippe Femand Boyer                       1TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 19, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: ORO SMLHLDR OIL PALM                           L/C/TFNumber: CPL-34850
Country/Department: PAPUA  EINW GuINTEA                                  Region: East Asia anu racinc
Region
Sectorisubsector: AP - Perennial Crops; TK - Rurai Roads; 'VM -
Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actua
PCD:   05/16/1990                             Effective: 06/16/1993         08/31/1993
Appraisal:  02/1211992                                MTR: 11/09/1996            1;/09/1996
Approval:  06/09/1992                              Closing: 12/31/1999          12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVT. OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA/DAL
Other Partners: AusAID in a parailel project
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Gautam S. Kaji
Country Manager:     Klaus Rohland                              Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Mark Wilson                                Antony Cole
Team Leader at ICR:  Philippe Boyer                            Philippe Boyer
ICR Primary Author:   Dennis Purcell (consultant)'
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Higbly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unhikev MI  Tc=H lyv I nsatisfactnnry H=HiQhv SU=Substantial. M-Modest N=Nealigible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
I,t.~..+;o.a Dveope Ipat: WA
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Oualitu at Fntrv:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
T-ne project objectives were to (a) increase agricultural producuon and exports, (b) provide
employment opportunities, (c) generate income for poor farmers, (d) maintain the income of
existing smallholders established under the previous Bank-assisted smaliholder development



project, and (c) protect the habitat of the endangered world's largest butterfly species.
The objectives were clear and consistent with the Bank's and the Government's objective for the
smallholder agricultural sub-sector. The concept of smallholder outgrowers linked to a nucleus
oil palm estate had been demonstrated in PNG and elsewhere as a viable development model. The
production environment was well suited to the oil palm crop. Attention to the circumstances of
the earlier s1heme was aapprnpriate to ensur e mxirmum benefits .were gPnpeted, and preservatinn
measures for the Queen Alexandra Birdwing Butterfly (QABB) were well founded.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were maintained throughout the project. The scale of some components
,4i_nnpA ,vi,thrmlt ltW,.ruii th,a haar ,vhw4hxr c.
3, 3 n.rico,rinl r-MNn 
The prniect renresented an exn3nminn of the qI1hnIder nnrnnnnent of the. PAnn-detta OIl Palm
Nucleus Estate Scheme, which; included smallholder and associated infrastructure development.
ComponeI- Jl'-LA A.
* establishment of 3,500 ha of new smallholder oil palm blocks (2 ha per recipient), planting of
3,000 ha of oil palm on the reserve land of blocks of the earlier scheme (2 ha per recipient),
strengthening of services to smallholders, construction of access roads (450 kIn) to permit
fruit collection, and building and maintaining social infrastructure;.
* upgrading and maintaining sections of the national road between Popondetta and Kokoda (59
kIn);
*   prntection of the endangered QABBj hy adopting a prngram to enslure that smalLhonder oil
palm development did not further endanger the QABB and its ecosystem;
:uluUUUL iaU~urULsinUg oL LUL UUv reUsUV WiLLUI UUU%.t MmyrL vouIt,UL U! UW e ,UslUVL on
palm sector - Department of Agriculture (DAL) in policy and project preparation and
evaluation, Oil Palm industry Corporation (OPIC) in management capacity, and the Oil Palm
Research Association (OPRA) for adaptive research; and
* studies on the sub-sector and future project preparation.
The oil palm development component was based on favorable experience in earlier projects in
PNG. A wnrldwidte r-vieuw nf thi tvnp nf pnrniPt hd shonweA that whpn a mimbe.r nf instiuhtinsn
were involved, the ability of each institution to deliver its required services should be evaluated
ver-y caiefully. The review also inuicated-iiie  was a u;iuency for infrasLructure to lag uehind
plantings, although the construction of supporting access road networks to complement plantings
had not been a significant problem in earher PNG oil palm projects. The 450 km access road
construction program spread over 6 years may have seemed reasonable at appraisal, but in
practice this component was implemented very poorly by the Department of Works, as will be
demonstrated below.  In hindsight, there should have been more attention given to the
institutional arrangements in this area, which is so critical for successful smallholder oil palm
Aow-Invmen,-t. 'R-AI-anr on r.^nrAv^. n1 - vs-nO Y Cm;+-aa'wv,_Q o,noU!y ictu -l-  Tha "w%61b! ^f
land tenure in PNG were mentioned, but no special arrangements were incorporated to address
the potenuai imnpediment to tLe constructuon of access roads on pnrvatcly held land; cdemands for



compensation had a negative influence on the road construction program in the early years of the
project. I e rvmauliur ofL iieO pam d      componen and uie Otiier componen-w were a
legitimate design to meet the project objectives.
3.4 Revised Components:
A number of revisions to quantitative targets were made and institutional changes were
recommended at tuhe time of thie MIid-term Re-view (tvflfls) in No-vemubr 1996. Tne iMTR
indicated that OPIC should prepare a submission on revised project costs and content for review
by the Bank so that any changes could be formahized and any excess funds cancelled. This
consideration led to a proposal for a two year extension of the project. The loan closing date was
subsequently extended for a period of two years from 12/31/1999, largely to accommodate the
access road construction program that continued to be grossly behind schedule. At that time
formal changes were made in the Loan Agreement and $5.6 million of the loan was cancelled
~~ --
In siaouer oil pam plantiug, negugible progress in tne pianuing of pairns on the exstung oiocks
at the MTR led to the target of 3,000 ha of palms on reserve land being changed to 1,500 ha as
replanting of old palms in decline, while the good progress on the new block plantings allowed a
target increase from 3,000 ha to 5,000 ha. The total planting remained at 6,500 ha, and a formal
request to the executive directors for support for the change was not sought. At the time of loan
extension, these targets were again modified to 8,000 ha and 1,250 ha for new and replant palms,
respectively; a total of 9,250 ha. It might at first appear illogical to have such a high target for
new ,its..a ngsat fleo *i", of evtoon yo tlkef  mair- cvnnt laas Liwk of lapcess. Hoovever
80% of this target for new plantings had already been met and the remainder represented in-filling.
Inis included blocKs on exisung access roaws or on roads pianned for biocks already under
development.
At the MTR, the poor progress in infrastructure (access roads, highway improvement and
buildings) was the subject of strong recommendations for institutional changes to remedy the
nroblem, but no quantitative changes to targets were recommended or made. At loan extension,
the access road target was reduced from 450 km to 350 km in accordance with assessed
4rniosanten   narbanf, nf cnn.trnnn  iniAor ,n,..a.,A manon.. cis  = . noa T a '4 wras
formalized in a change to the Loan Agreement, as was the removal of upgrading of the Kokoda
hignway. Tne latter was due wto te necessily w nave major surveys on me road alignment ew.,
before a contract could be let, and the unavailability of contractor capacity to subsequently
undertake construction in the proposed extension period (as access roads had priority); in
practice, the survey work was done within the project (section 4.3). The social infrastructure
component underwent minor target adjustments but these were not major enough to warrant
formal changes.
Theo annAwZn,'.nnt copne.nnnt ~x7a nis ,ect to a vnalnr ln+i.,4nol',0nge. 0. Al r snrn-l fiie pr^,ect
provided for support for the staffing and equipping of the Department of Environment and
Conservation t(DEC), on ine understanuing that the government wouia seek grant aid for an
expanded program in research and extension. In practice, AusAID funded the Oro Conservation
Project (OCP) that commenced in March 1995 and continued to June 1999. This project assumed
- 3-



all the functions intended in the Bank's project, apart from OPIC's obligations to heed
environmental guidelnes in supporting oil palm development. No official changes were made to
reflect this except that unused funds were cancelled at end-1999; this change of responsibility had
no negative impact on the project or the component.
On other institutional strengthening, delays in finalizing the reorganization of DAL to determine
how the p -roect sub-co-mponPent could be pro^perly assimilatMe into its Pmerging decentrali7ze
structure led to its being held in abeyance. This decision was supported at the MTR and
governm ent UiU dUL jnUsae iUUp UUIULeLLUU lA LLLV o bUU-cLIpVLL b p LL.  octUUevU LULlIU  Wer1
cancelled at end-1999. For the OPRA sub-component, the addition of the preparation of a GIS
mapping system was recommended at MIR and was formalized at end-1999 in the Loan
Agreement amendment.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project design was consistent with the objectives of the Government and the Bank in
supporting sustainable development in the rural areas through smallholder oil palm development.
This was through an already proven mechanism of support in-kind and as services to smallholders
linked to a nucleus estate. Significant numbers of rural families would benefit substantially in cash
income with flow-on effects to the local economy; and the product would generate export
income. The establishment (late-1992) and reliance on OPIC as the primary implementing agency
,wslpplflmfllp .. 1+ --1A lk A-A' O A .+.A 1  _1  -  lll   nil  1  Am
VVa-D aPP VP;;  ZD te  VVao  VJILd Uwe deVl-icaed eXCl V  U.ey WO D-LwMm jLW FV n &A puce^.
Risks associated with possible negative developmenis were considered, including the possibility oI
poor smallholder performance with consequent low oil palm yields, and even political or civil
unrest. The former was to be addressed by having an effective OPIC extension service, and the
latter relied on the participation of the provincial authorities in the project coordination committee
to resolve any upheavals and on positive sentiment generated through social infrastructure.
Training of the OPTC extension servce was originally nrovided for; but this function was funded
in a grant program from the EU. Staff could have legitimately assumed that an improved and
Well-UI..-LC e1nsLionL sev ice'ir. UIC UZ..Ii 1  Vv %JW% LUJI. UL  'ILLUL to%AL enUsrLe ooL c t  O sUadivD fIo;L ULAL
palms, although this did not always occur in practice, with negative consequences as pointed out
below. As will be seen later in this report, there was an "Oro for Oro" campaign waged in the
province in the early 1990s, in which intimidation and violence were directed at non-indigenous
persons, which included most of the growers in the earlier Popondetta oil palm scheme. Although
the need for replacing existing palms in this scheme was delayed due to slower growth associated
with sub-optimal fertilizer applications, the intended planting of reserve areas initially, and in
replnnting pnalm  suhbseqnuiently, was less than exrected. The intimidtiton associated with the
campaign was one of the reasons for the poor performance in this sub-component. No special
dLLVILLIAII Wa glVvIe LU ULlUs UVVeUlpJ.I1.L UI Uir.   IAUh JVLL UVbsLU. IIVWrV-Ve, atL U1 LLJ. of pVUJIt.L
preparation the campaign was not apparent, and at appraisal it had not sufficiently developed to
be seen as a threat.
Environmental concerns were addressed through the program to protect the habitat of the QABB.
At negotiations the oil processing plant, Higaturu Oil Palm Limited (HOP), undertook to upgrade
its effluent treatment facilities and establish an environmentally adequate landfill for the disposal



of non-biodegradable wastes. Both these measures were implemented.
T.k.e infiasewmpr.ntqw - sT-T,! +- lbe ,lemen+-A 'qo. TIM17,"I .-A 'Inil,l=
&A L  LU  LI~M    J LjJJ L.4L.   WVL .. .. iJ.A AjJA  IA  UV.  "FL VL"V~.JLL.AA  U7.  LJ..%J TV A A  1%  A.J WY TV  A  iL L
Port Moresby would assist in the planning, design and preparation of tender documents" and the
"provinciai branch of DOW-1 would supervise the construction". Project coordination was by
way of national and provincial coordination committees. These arrangements essentially repeated
the arrangements in the previous project that had been successfully implemented in Oro.
Unfortunately, conditions in this new project changed with respect to capability of the DOWT and
in executive arrangements for coordination through committees. Contractor availability also
developed as a major constraint that was not foreseen at annraisal.  Consequently. the
infrastructure component incurred major problems (section 4.3). In hindsight, attention to
stmager ins1w.L.nLAGL -5..ALALvAI  JA  . fo: vvork JL"E1Lu. migVh YVJAYv& zvid LUV0  U"IA1Vt"U1I.
Nevertheless, the overall rating on quality is maintained as Satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The original project assessment was not done at a time when detailed monitoring and evaluation
criteria had to be defined in the appraisal document. However. there are sufficient anecdotal and
statistical data to make a reliable estimate of achievements.
Undoubtedly, the project has substantially increased agricultural production and exports of palm
ou dfu LkeVneln u. iiS iS d-ue 'o UI iuiiuJu Ulu p4uU pi&nung progr.uuim iz ias nowLummriuLv. LU
produce substantial fruit for which processing and marketing are being managed efficiently by
HOP, as intended. The number of participating farmers, which exceeded original targets by 48%,
is witness to the employment and income benefits of the project in the Oro Province. The
program to protect the habitat of the QABB has been rated independently as successful. The
sDecific obiective of maintaining the income of smallholders with oil palm established under the
old scheme was only partially successful. The access road component was the weakest part of the
proect, an.d GovnrunPnt m has been fnrhiintp In l¶irs on-ace tvo an aim  A AT firn.Ad T,"ce,i*A,p
Scheme grant fumd, after Loan closing date, to complete the access road infrastructure needed to
gyVU i-ve si   cces LU aiU Uo 'ui blocIN   UIiL ha-Ve Ubeen Udevelped UUUndr U prOUJLA. WiUIUUt LUi,
it is likely that the Government, in view of fiscal constraints, would have found it difficult to meet
its commitment to service all of the growers participating in the project. Although the failigs
under this infrastructure component were significant, the overall positive impact of the project is
such as to warrant a Satisfactory rating.
Apart from the specified objectives, the project has had more generalized benefits in the province
of Oro. With the marnor i   mr cf- ¶in raAinrnpc frnom palmi fi.i;* AsAuiPree,cn-nAmer deain haso
substantially increased over the project period. A national supermarket chain has been attracted
to Popondetta, die pro-vi-iiial capital. Annual movement of contaiiers at the whaf increased by
30% from 1997 to 2000 (all merchandise comes by sea). The cash income from palm fruit has
provided diversification of income and more secure household economies. The establishment of
oil palm has not decreased the capacity for food crop production. The "mama lus frut" scheme
(see below) is allowing women in households to earn their own income, thereby encouraging
-5 -



hpttP.r nlitritinn and fmily v welfhr. Th_e. vinhilitv nf the. prnnmr.ina mill num,i hv I-0P hna bePn.
enhanced by the project's provision of substantial additional throughput.
The estimation of the economic rate of return (ERR) on the project (section 4.3) is 10.7% before
accounting for many indirect and substantial benefits derived from the project investment. When
these additional benefits are considered, the economic consequences of the project support the
Satisfactory rating for project accomplishments.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Smallholder Development. This component was the major part of the project and included a
number to subcomponents - oil palm plantings, complemented by extension services, access road
construction, and social infrastructure.
Establishing oil palms on new blocks (8,230 ha) exceeded the original target (3,500 ha) by 135%
-- wa zn+ ow-A      acm':m       r.of+-he pUJet     It_ A'so-- demon DTf OPI'sL:1:4y t
au% GCal I%utca.aui.uu,  1~A1UjIULLJL11L VJ1 UL1v FIJVUJ,L. IL G.WUV UVLL%IZLUGLaLU WJE IS.. 0 aUULLJLL UV
promote, organize and supervise a major program of oil palm planting by smallholders.  A
worthwhile innovation of the project hat was not envisaged at appraisal was the "mama !us frut"
scheme. This enabled women in households to participate in a cash-earning endeavor that gave
them the oppoitunity to improve household nutrition and engage in other small business that
required some cash seed money. Women are given a separate account by HOP for delivery at the
pick up points of ripe fruit that they collect after it has fallen from the bunches that have been cut
and delivered by men in the bousehold. By pmniect clnure5 all of the five OPTC nntinrt divisions
had this scheme in place and it was expanding rapidly.
The replanting of oil palms in the area of the earlier Popondetta scheme was less successful.
Originally, the target was to establish 3,000 ha in the reserve land of existing blocks (on which
usually 4 ha of a total area of 6 ha had been previously planted). The concept was to plant the 2
ha of reserve and inter-crop with food crops for two years, followed in the third year with
poisoning and replanting of two of the four initial hectares, again with intercropping. The
remaining two hectares would be felled and planted to food crops three years later, thereby
maintaining 4 ha of oil nalm and a food crmp area at all times during the cycle. It sTn beme
apparent that development of the two reserve hectares on blocks would entail significant difficulty
ml UanpULt of UL,L to acUe  po, s bUIUt  y U eWILL Ubar LUW, SU LUL soUWVer WVle SUL UILV1VaiLvU LU
participating. At the time of MTR in 1996, the program was modified to replanting of existing
palms as they reached heights that prevented coliection of bunches (rather than planting on the
reserve land), and the target area was reduced to 1,500 ha. Little progress was made in the
program until 1999, and at the time of project extension at end-1999 the target was further
reduced to 1,250 ha. At loan closure. 1,374 ha had been replanted, bringing the achievement
close to the (reduced) MTR target.
The reduced achievement of the replanting program can be attributed to a number of factors, one
or more of- which co-Uu ldVu h a-1-ueliUe iUIdiVIUdLu gruweir t4LULUUU LU rupiantrig:
(a)   initially, the demand for OPIC's attention was for new plantings in the expansion area
rather than in the old scheme. Smallholders appreciated the potential for cash income by entering
-6-



the scheme, for diversification of income, and for improved road access with its consequent
socio-economic benefits. Consequently, OPIC staff concentrated on this aspect of development.
Bank supervision staff began to insist on attention to replanting in the old scheme when it became
apparent that large sections of plantings were reaching an age when normally harvesting would be
imnractical - about 20 vears. In nractice. the situation wac made less acute due to the verv low
application of ferdlizer during the palms' productive years, thereby slowing the attainment of
p.-v;b.+:ve.Sve+;g'.eiht..XTee.-eleo, a p.- 1-- clos-e or'y'-+u ' l f of +U- se vv ho
jJL%JJA*U'1L1T V '..' hUt V  ,ai Liia  U S15W..  11  V%WiL&LL'.OL%0, GE  jAJVIU %  %JI.4  ~LU VI.U  LU7  avuUL  UL" l  U.L  LL~JLV V"
should have begun replanting had done so, and earlier emphasis by OPIC is likely to have attained
a better result.
(b)   There was a reticence to reduce cash income from palms by poisoning, as long as it
remained feasible to reach fruit bunches for harvesting. In times of low or moderate fruit prices,
this concern was accentuated. Higher prices in 1998 to 2000 coincided with the greater adoption
of replanting; although the limitations of palm hbeig-ht woulld also have been more anparent in these
later years.
(c)   Most of the old scheme smallholder were immigrants to Oro from other provinces and had
land settlement scheme blocks (LSS, as 99-year leases). A resentment of these immigrants by
traditional landowners culminated in a political campaign, "Oro for Oro" in the early 1990s, in
which pressure was put on many of the LSS smallholders to leave. Although the large majority
stayed, the local resentment has persisted and inhibited many from replanting as this would
represent a further antagonism to the local people, possibly resulting in increased pressure to leave
the areas therehy inrncrring high inveqtment ri:k kM4nt of ths settlers who did leAve now have
caretakers on their blocks; as the planting of economic trees throughout most of PNG confers
___AAA_L:-   -:  *L4   A-   491--  &lL_  1LAA--*-   AL--   -A_  4A  L A -  1-   Aw A-AA*
OWIWIl;ilp 11rLLO LU ULV LULVIV4LUL, ULb UWUvlb LU4VM UbbU bUWVLILA U allVW carlc-IO LU
undertake the replanting.
(d)   A persistent problem has been the difficulty in maintaining access roads so that collection
trucks can reach the blocks. In the 1990s, collections have at times been impossible for periods of
up to three months, thereby eroding the confidence in additional investment in oil palm replanting.
(e)   Being leaseholders, the LSS smallholders had to pay rent. Many had not paid rent since
the disttirhanc^q of the "Om for Orom camnaignj resqting in delhts of K100 to K1-600 per hlock=
The Lands Department refused to give clearance for a new (replanting) loan until debts were
carnceLLeU. FolloWiUn pJLULs-e fro OLPLIC, d. in 20U1  A,l Lands LJ51jcpLU^nIIt coUnsnUILLU to ILLLUIeL
borrowing as long as a rent arrears was reduced to K1,000, thereby largely removing this
impediment.
(f)   A reluctance to incur further debt was apparent with some of the 1517 participants in the
old scheme. Many had borrowed for relatively expensive housing under a scheme promoted by
the Rural Development Bank in the early 1980s. 105 of these borrowers still had outstanding
onnas in 2001  With deductions being made a;s renavments to H4OP for fertili7er And innlitq npliu
repayments to the Rural Bank, the additional commitment to a replant loan created concern for
ULU avaULIULJ VU aaII Ub,ULUW , lV9 VOW.U'a U UlS 1U L IVW YJVb aILVL U1U1DULr U1 VA1UUr, j)4Ii.



Although the total planted area substantially exceeded targets, productivity did not, neither from
young palms in the new blocks nor from mature palms in the old scheme blocks.
On the new blocks. analysis sf individual block yields according to year of planting reve.al-s that,
on average, they are up to 50% less than anticipated at appraisal in early years, with less deficit
(about+ 12)0N- 1.a+ years. Te apprasal' a-ssud -At yields would suut at - 'tonrnes irn dhe thirud
a(S~%I A £f /j LU)AA.L  A UI.Wl  "%jAL, U4~LA1t %U14 y iLe1 iL ' UU WU4 L aL J Uu1l lU 1 LL 
year and rise to 12, 16, 18 and 19 tonnes/ha in successive succeeding years. The relatively high
yieids were based on trends exhibited in the earlier Popondetta scheme in the mid-1980s before
the major drop in palm oil prices of the late-1980s. This was on the assumption that prices would
return to more acceptable levels and producer incentives for complete harvesting and good
management would be present. The yield projections were similar to that reported in the
completion report on the earlier project, except that the palms were expected to bear fruit in the
third instead of the fourth vear. In nrcet conditions in the prntect wirF nnt iirh ton Allow these
yields.
If a more conservative estimnate of production potential with smallholder blocks is taken, including
production starting in the fourth year, and yieids at 75% of those attained on private estates, the
yields have been about 92% of such expectations if only the harvested area is included, and about
73% if all areas planted to palms with an age of 3 years or over are included. The latter is
affected to some extent by inaccessibility in some zones, which prevents harvest. Regardless of
targets, the actual yields were less than could be expected if the planned maintenance and fertlizer
annlication were carriti out. There were uimhlens iin fei7er lernn   distributionn, n.d
utilization in the early years under a number of different institutional anrangements. These were
not   comley o  VerIoIJILr   UVeLI 1  LLUL A ; SULUsequenltly, duLuluuziuO as part of Lite development
package has been as planned. However, some damage had been done, especially in the grassland
areas (tower natural fertility). Fertiizer distribution subsequent to the development period in new
areas, when the purchase of ferdlizer is voluntary, is now a concern. In 2001 the fertilizer ordered
by these growers was less than 30% of the amount calculated as necessary by OPIC.
In the old scheme, abandoned blocks to the extent of 10% of the total (for the reasons outlined
sihove) have had a negative effet nn average yvilds. The P.Yeten-t tn which interittent hareting
affected output is unknown, but data analysis indicates a very big variation between blocks. Over
tue last 10 yea, annual avernage yields have been between 9.5 and 13 tonnes/na planteA, or
between 11 and 14.5 tonnes/ha harvested, with the figures over the last six years being higher than
the earlier years when the worst effects of the anti-settler campaign were evident. This compares
with an expectation of about 15 tonnes. Here, again, inadequate ferftlizer usage has been a
significant contributing factor to the lower yield. Distribution problems occurred, but adoption of
fertlizer and valm maintenance recommendations were also influenced by the same factors that
affected the willingness to participate in replanting palms; only about half participated in the
fertfii7er proCurement program  n 2001.
OPIC gave d-ue aUention to the build up of an extension service. Staff and their residental-
facilities reached about 72% of the appraisal target by 1997, with the delay in recruitment being
associated with the lack of housing due to the difficulties experienced in the civil works



component. Procurement of vehicles exceeded the Dlan, largely because of the unforeseen need
to equip the OPID unit and the addition of vehicles for a supervising mechanic and a logistics
nffi'-pr (fnr the inpiit Apliu,pr firnnfin'n) Tin thep lQt tfun xyrare nf tlha iprnoA,t tffrnt;nn h!ic h%een
allowed to reduce staff numbers to a degree, with the view to producer levies having to bear
futurLe cost coverage. w ithi the assibtance of the Euroupuai union, e-xtension sbtaI Underwet
training in a program provided by the University of Western Sydney. This improved the
confidence of staff in dealing with growers. Despite this, supervision missions reported that while
staff were effective in promoting and servicing the establishment of palms in new areas, their
ability to undertake critical and structured analysis appeared limited, with few exceptions. The
introduction of a management information system develoDed with loan funds in 2000 Drovided a
much improved and accessible database, but initiatives and abilities to use this to attempt to define
nnA adirp prnblems were rafri't-te  T1bi prno,c-t used T.ina hnim Transnurt Ptu Ltd AT   ) teo
collect the fresh fruit and to supply inputs and administer the individiul loan accounts that each
grower iiu to cover iiis de-veopmn'. cos-w. ims was a conunuauion o0te aui rn-gements useu ui
the previous project. However, starting with a reduction in the transport charge made for fruit
collection in 1991, HTPL began to make losses. There was a deterioration in management and
procedures in'which discrepancies occurred in fruit collected and delivered, thereby exacerbating
losses. The company had wiped out its equity by end-1997, and'its service capacity deteriorated.
Bank supervision recommended a review of the aDnropriateness of this government comnanv as
the provider of the services under the project. In 1999, government wound up HTPL and its
funMct.ions xwr smoonthly an.d a kaYc s,^lhA e   tvef.oemA to HOPD, ',,.th. some miniior *a h,ia
assigned to OPIC.
The construction of harvesting roads (US$3.8 million) to allow access by collection trucks was
the problematical part of the project. In view of poor progress in this component, the original
target of 450 km was reduced to 345 km at the time of closing date extension at end-1999. This
included 150 km in the two-year extension, which was correctly assessed as the limit of contractor
capacity, and was attained. However, after detailed maDping and analysis of the blocks and their
access requirements, in mid-2000 OPIC revealed that close to 200 km of roads and associated
1idgeAsa (tuimr wxth a Intotal span rof 5r5)i and  .+l;rts i;i1  ,tiI l0v7P to 1,%a  iaelr foe
b0,   l' w VT  -  *tfl   .kl-   ..tLU_ J  -%  -~V*~  VtJ   -If  fE   -  -    -C~
extended program.
In view of the pending project completion with a substantial deficit in access road construction,
Bank supervision in early 2001 worked with OPIC and OPID to ascertain if a reduction in
specifications for part of the network could enable an expanded program before loan closure
using the available contractor resources. This consideration was prompted by a sound policy
adonted by HOP in 2000 to modify the fruit collection system. It involved part of the network
being converted to a tractor/trailer collection system, with delivery of fruit to skip bins that would
be nnleIn*aA by 16=ton I r.lck nr+t",Itn on a pAr- u--.-.l of noads T.Mio -I  -n *1.
OW  'sJU.'.b   -d  WA  V  IdW   S.FyAA .f5  W-   jJA.fl.Yl  %FX.~vi.,   A*,iw~.  xa" ASC wV flAA  fl w,L "t.a
overall maintenance requirements would be reduced, and, in theory, the construction
specificauions could be reduced for the uactor/trailer part of ite network. in practice, it was
discovered that the lower specifications incurred practical difficulties in the construction period
for heavy lorries used for gravel transport, so this experiment was quickly abandoned. (The
appraisal concept included three grades of access/harvest roads, but this differentiation was
dropped at the start of the program as it proved impractical.) The use of the same specifications
-9-



for the tractor/trailer roads inmlied that maintenance reauirements on these roads would be
substantially reduced.
GoPNG, through OPIC, has approached the PNG Incentive Fund (PNG IF - a grant fund by
tAu.iw) w iunu Lui requuw aweuss roau program over LuuL anu 2003. rrospets ior obtmining
grant approval are good. Key criteria for successful application to the PNG IF are demonstrated
ability on the part of the agency to implement the planned program, and the development priority
of the work to be undertaken.
Institutional arrangements to implement the access road comnonent proved to be inadeouate.
DOWT was contracted, as intended, to undertake the civil works in the project. However, it
rill;,-1,17 f^etlnA AO+s 1+ on..1r1 nfg AI Al-+, +..1 -41, tt -s1- jA-T A +. T. T+ --.+-+A
*J     V -   *-  W. V-  1 w "5'. I4V  WsD Aw5U.LU w'UVvJL"LALtLL OtUX11. IL *VVLLUWU
consultants to undertake the planning, design and supervision of works. The consultant was
housed in a uini (OPri - Oil Palm  minrastructure Development) responding to uuw i's
provincial office. There were frequent periods of tension between OPID and its DOWT head
office, and between DOWT and OPIC on the administration and control of the program. A key
concern was DOWT's insistence that OPID should work within DOWT's provincial structure and
only communicate officially with OPIC through DOWT head office procedures; this was not
conducive to efficient onerations between OPID and the local OPIC office.
* wlr... of h.Lnpwwmoxvit *n wafl+;rlon ^^^iv-. WU%I v;fl,A%VU peDflo;tJna  wervA% U t 
DOWT, thereby permitting acceptance by the Bank of continuation of the tenuous arrangements.
Howuvvr, utese peious ciu not last long enough to allow the required work program to be
undertaken. The MTR recommended cessation of the contract between OPIC and DOWT, with
an alternative being to use the Works Division of the provincial administration. This alternative
proved to be unfeasible due to inadequate capacity, and regulations on contract approval limits.
However, an acceptable arrangement was agreed in which the OPID unit, managed by the
consultant group, would liaise closely with OPIC in Ponondetta and would renort directly to a
specific Director in DOWT in Port Moresby. Consequently, whereas only 91 km were
c       A D ^-t A10   -Afk ...n 1;g.le p,rgess in 197 .t  ee w . 1  p017 VU_  :_. 1998O
~.'J.W1 *4~L  W .'511 A  ~5.51AA%~A5LU~ jAiJLV.OLU 1A.7 UML'.L WaS auuLLIa"LLLG4 FJAUL%JSaa Ul 1770
with another 63 km contracted.
However, in late 1998 there was a change in the Director post in DOWT, and a DOWT engineer.
was seconded to OPID as manager to bring the unit more into the DOWT framework. This led to
a deterioration of relationships again. Some tendering irregularities were identified by the
consultants. Consequently, the Bank obtained agreement that the consultant fill the OPID
manager nnst and be answerahle to a newlv annointed nirectnr in DOVT in Pnrt MnrF-hv Thp
-e-     -  r--  _   -        - _    -rr J
OPTI) manager would work closely with OPIC in Popondetta and in Port Moresby. OPIC was to
be- dX -yivvA.  *    n-roA -e.v--k l--  --gands.4yo prg-v pait-wi cnrvl
UIq- U.UVVJY 1UVUVLVU LLLivu IUOU u.W%uJ JiaLULUur5 41.LU LUI avi.UULL i) FIV8j1U1Vb liaY1UVUWI LU u IJULVd~Ia5.
This arrangement worked well for the last two years of the project.
Supervision missions also found that the administration of the tendering/contracting process was
very slow and cumbersome in DOWT, so that there were long delays in approvals and also in
payments to contractors. After some initial minor procedural problems in tendering at the start of
the civil works program, the Bank indicated its standard tendering documents for smaller works
-10-



should be used. This was not done. and a modified form of the DOWT tendering for minor works
was used. At end-1998, Bank supervision found that some of the procedures being introduced
wxere not !a-c-3-Wtahle tao lhe l3ank  Th. a .8le to. tMA  D1, so. ng An tim iuoaf ;ts stdar
VT  flJ  ..dp.nt   -S  bfl',  .s .a  A `-O  *w%  -T  fl'.  fl E  &0 ...L..  TJU  -Zaw. i4%   -  &-  OW.L
tendering documents, which were used from 1999 until closure of the project at end-2001. The
delay in payment to contractors was overcome from i997 onwards by OPIC paying the
contractors directly after certification of work progress by DOWT.
Apart from the institutional problems, a number of factors seriously hindered implementation of
the access road construction program. Despite verbal agreements with affected landowners that
compensation would not be claimed for use of land for access roads. in the early years of the
project these claims occurred and construction was halted. Subsequently, the program was
...rtia+nii mx,har mxw.ft,o o.m4,,w,-tl   waa ,.n-itA at6krnl ..a.n all aednA la"A  ,rn,-
unrest linked to a GoPNG land mobilization policy in 1995 restricted movement for several
months, and especia'lly afrectea the road program. An expatiaxe engineer was murered. A
scarcity of experienced contractors with sufficient and appropriate equipment was a major
constraint in Oro, leading to cancellation of contracts for poor performance and the need for
re-tendering. The cumbersome processes in DOWT incurred major delays in resolving conflicts
and re-tendering. Lack of continuity of work was a disincentive for larger contractors, and the
contractor situation was only fully satisfactory after early 1999. At that time workable
component management arrangements were in place; adequate budgets for road expenditure were
-^- rA- m e ;r         far b-r  -   -nara n,aa a""r--A.f  -A  -.; -ar 4;.f nmA,.uA  t+],i;
.ppo-Ve ,  *.a..     . V0  *S a V& tw _ '..V CA 1USSLW, .V JV- 55*& _fJAJ. --
equipment plants in the province, ensuring three major players in addition to other smaller groups.
Once constructed, maintenance of the access road network is essential if it is to serve its purpose
in enabling economic palm oil production. Appraisal and loan documents make reference to the
need for maintenance of the road network, and the economic analysis allowed US$110,000
annually (1992 constant terms) for road maintenance. However, the institutional arrangement for
this maintenance did not receive snecial attention. In hindsight, greater emphasis could have been
given to this element of the project. Despite the obvious priority of maintenance once the capital
Anur Ues..fn nn.-.-A ., 'k ft#l a+.    l p.1 '.I   m--At (n a nrmn-4-1 a-n..,an.m.at,
services and the road network), this did not result in the required budgetaxy allocation by
GoPNG. Maintenance was a proincial government responsbiity, 'DUi ihe province normally nad
very scarce funds available and did not allocate any significant amount to access road
maintenance. In addition, the road plant that DOWT had in the province was grossly
under-utilized due to lack of operating funds.
In the absence of allocations by the nrovincial govemment OPIC and HOP filled the void by
undertaking emergency maintenance using their own funds. Loan funds were also used to
p-cl^ne a  Ladt Arr dex. ."t Ilao fopn.A by 1HOP fAo; ..ant .amntancsm 'n a4l43. al.  TAhe
emergency nature of this program, however, meant that in times of extreme weather conditions,
requirements could not be handlea, leaudmg to large sections oI road being impassable, with
consequent inability to collect fresh fiuit on a regular fortnightly schedule. This had not only
economic consequences, but also a negative impact on the attitude of many growers in the
established areas concerning replanting investment and the use of production inputs such as
fertilizer. Towards the end of the project, a scheme that enabled the oil processing mills to
-I1 -



iiinpi1rt1l.p TVifltP1nnU1P nf emai1knlApr access roads ;n r,plirn, for tov pviAta xvas aov'.o,iw.A by fk
National Executive Council. The operating regulations for this scheme were developed in early
2002. in 2001, GJurP4N wUiUirmCU iaala the proviices woulu nave aditiional responsioiuty ior
maintenance of road networks and would be funded accordingly. However, the outcome of this
will depend on fund flows and priorities. A World Bank-funded road maintenance project is
expected to be signed in mid-2002, and has allocations to Oro Province, which could provide
some relief.
The social infrastructure subcomponent suffered from the same institutional deficiencies that
im,peAdA management of the road program, and also experienced difficulties of contra.tor
incompetence. A further complication was the change in official specifications of government
ressiuences uiring the proect, and the taruiness of DOwT in revising detailed designs.
Nevertheless, with the extended project period, appraisal targets were substantially met. The
largest element was in education facilities in which 10 double classrooms were constructed. This
provision was appreciated by smallholders, and was in stark contrast to the general decline in
government funding of education in the province; teacher numbers fell during the project period
and Drimary school enrolments rose only mar2inallv.
Main Rnuoad Impruovement. A*t app"r^a it as 4 n,ag  4+ US$1.9 TQ  on wo-JA be --e
on improving sections of the Popondetta-Kokoda highway. The DOWT would be responsible for
maintenance  Of te roaa as a national mgnway. Constructon was not undertaKen under tne
project. In the first half of the project, in a situation of limited contracting capacity, emphasis was
correctly given to construction of access/harvest roads rather than the highway. The highway
upgrade had originally been included at project preparation when there was a plan for major HOP
estate as well as smallholder plantings in the Kokoda area. After the estate expansion plan was
dropped (section 7.1), the highway ungrade was retained because of the intended new smallholder
plantings. At the MTR, continued difficulties with the access road component demanded that all
'DTT ar .dA nnnt,.onn onor.fo be nk01d  +1. a-- n,a
It was also appreciated that deTailed survey work wouid be required before any contracts could be
tendered for highway improvement. In the meantime, the highway continued to deteriorate in
view of lack of maintenance by DOWT. HOP was obliged to spend its own funds to keep the
highway open for its fruit collection trucks (from its own estate and from smallholders in the
Kokoda area). Realizing that construction would not be possible in the project period, but
annreciating the importance of the highway imnrovement loan fiinds were inqpA to iinduNrt2kP tlh
required surveys on the road to provide the basis for development when funds from other sources
bcame avb       uccessfl ::^:.of+e            laes        stobcrved           t,
vieJ.u av ojwQUI%. LJ%%.ju,OOIuA uUJLXILMUU SfL ULIVi 3Jf.ILU1UVI&V  Iv4ub LU UV SIOJ.U MULLc LIU lu
Kokoda area, however, wil depend on this highway remaining functional.
Environmental Protection. As reported in 3.4 above, an AusAID project (OCP) assumed
responsibility for implementation of this component. OPIC commissioned a review by an
independent consultant of the performance of OPIC in meeting the conservation obiectives, and
this report had favorable findings. The appraisal objectives included (a) mapping the distribution
Of th e QOABB (h) trAining OPIC staffin thEe selec_tion/pprovul of aras for oI palm dev elopment,
(c) promoting permanent conservation areas under traditional land ownership, and (d) training of
-12-



DEC staff. The focus was on the conservation of the QABB and its habitat, rather than on forest
clearing practices. Primary forest - nad virtuauly disappeareda from the development areas on tne
plains, and "degraded bushland", "secondary forest" and "open grassland (Imperata cylindrica)"
were the vegetative communities to be developed to oil palm. The component deserves a
Satisfactory outcome rating.
The distribution of the QABB was mapped_ and was incornorated into the CIS manning system
that was funded under Bank loan and completed in 1999. This was along with different classes of
4UL-.+O  aL.-A  - .UCU-A4  - .~~ .-AL  .  -WD~.A'.v . 1 4'JW-.A.  --AL  UIJ.'U  1- ¶. 'r ..JIIJ  1aC.LUIL.+. U  11IJ  -J1-
1fo.st1 CU.d% WOssILUE &-easC &ndJ a QKadrEM ofL oadsM QUd blocks. T.k.e~_JLL AGPIL ac it tA notJ1 %o-LY
decision making on the location of roads and the acceptance or otherwise of blocks, but also
provides a basis for general development considerations in the province. with tne assumption tnat
primary forest was not present and the stated focus on the QABB, there was some initial
confusion on the definition of various classifications of "forest" and their suitability for village oil
palm development. In 1997 there was an instance where OPIC field officers demarcated 99 blocks
in one location for planting after logging of forest. This issue was addressed in a Bank
supervn.sin mission in 1 QQR which resqutied in the relocatinn of the nronosed blocks to nearhy
grassland, and the clarification of guidelines that protected not only QABB habitat and primary
4r---d+ 1L . _<_+. + A -  --- -A+-A      --AA .-__  A t_-A__   TsALA_ A  - A __.. A-.4-  --+ & +;A
1UIVOW UUL alO%V OU5U1AL'.,CUL £q;iVUVGlaU 1VUL,L L uU W9WLVW4ZYO. Al UIG1G WViLG 4UL1 UVUUUL VU UWV
classification of forest, DEC officers were to be called in to make a decision. This policy worked
well, and the consultant review concluded that the "majority of OPIC extension officers are
pro-active in the area of conservation". The availability of the GIS in 1999 further strengthened
the program by clearly defining no-go areas for development.
The OCP undertook public awareness programs with villagers, formnalized wildlife management
aream An village landsR- and deveinned a nlimher of entemrnses .^ir1h a tradiing in mnllectm and
mounted insects that demonstrated direct benefits from conserving forest habitats. Subsequent to
'ute OCP a,n  NGr-r flo---4-a':-n        *--Inei  oo  oe -_ yo - 'e -&IL- c  4opn -; vL
ULU %Jl ,ar1 L4'j.J'J kUb1k.V4MLMLVU IVIVIUUMUGJ1 LVVA, UVVL 111UL1 UtL LUV FJLUJVL4 I.' %VUFUQIILD, UJLV
program of wildlife management areas has persisted, but there are some marketing problems with
the insect collection schemes. The OCP did train DEC offcers. However, the project received
very little budgetary support from the national budget, and after project completion the DEC staff
in Oro virtually had to rely on other agencies, including OPIC, for transport to the field. Without
the involvement of Conservation Melanesia, many of the OCP initiatives would have languished.
A nntshIe niitr-nme of the rtnsnervatinn intsfvnt4nnq inder thiq cnmponent has been the
realization of a real sense of responsible development within HOP. The latter has taken the
initiatUive ir promo'ULng Uue IfIor UIa&iL  VI  4 WILImp1VLM 1VV UVVeV1 LLLopm e L LUL eV pro- vce
incorporating the views and concerns of all stakeholders, with special emphasis on environmental
concerns and sustainable development.
Institutional Strengthening. The DAL component was legitimately cancelled as explained
above. In practice, many of the studies undertaken through OPIC consultancies substituted for the
policy/planning intentions for DAL. These included two reviews of the pricing formula to
e@tnhlieh emsallh"lrlpr nil inlm fr-sh fhnit hmunrcih re.himr  and tlhe nrp-nrstin of nil nalm
sector-wide reviews as a basis for future sector development interventions, and the preparation of
a completuon repori on thle project. OPIC wa s rentuiened utrougi ulte fuliunig VI puOiiuunS of



General Secretary, Financial Controller and Corporate Development Officer. The two former
positions were initially filled by expatriates, but subsequently by nationals under contract.
Supporting equipment and vehicles were also provided effectively.
OPRA was assisted as the entity responsible for oil palm research. Funding included mineral
nutrition studies in the early part of the project, the development of the GIS mapping system (for
which OPRA has the nrimarv re.qnnnmihilitv fnr mana_ement and data uidatinp)- the reemtiment
of a consultant agronomist to lead the smallholder oil palm research program and train national
--A     A 2VA 4-1     -_   -V A1  _A1-   _A-      -.-   4r--  -A_ U..  AAWw 1A4   A+.=   'M
W,lb1Uvt0 dLIU LUV jJLV4LaL.uviL vL a vUJ Faun AL"f"isemendU UJ4uu4 u ivL Ula Ly U) LiLei  fL l. Iu 
consultant agronomist is also charged with making the maximum use of existing mineral nutrition
data so that they are more site- and situation-specific.
Studies and Technical Assistance. These components were satisfactorily implemented as
reflected in comment on the various components.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis of the project completed in March 1992 estimated an Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) of 12.4 %. The current analysis using a similar approach (with two variations
which are presented below) results in an ERR estimate of 10.7%.
Th,e first vanriatinn cncer,ns- the nil pnlm repianting cnmpnonent: during anprnaial, it ursic nemimm
that smalIholders would plant oil palm on their reserve land; however, this was not the case as
uicy plaiieU aner luling -heir p1i ms WMhih rLCsuL U e U inivguuv e Ueicom  during her t irnv; Uir
years. The net income from this is entered as a "without project" benefit, which reduces the ERR
for the overall project compared to appraisal. The second variation concerns the access road
infrastructure: in view of its major impact on the socio-economics of households in the project
area, in addition to oil palm, only 75% of the access road costs were allocated against the project.
However, if 100% of the costs were included, the estimated ERR would decrease to 8.4%.
retlir farttrc Inao-otA thlia t,ivrnt P1RP Pe£tmatfe rnmpiarPA Mw tAP anv%"ial atvnt;ma  unit-i,Ama
(a) the longer investment period, associated with the extension of the project; (b) the lower yields
in tne initiai years of production (1998 - 2000), due to problems witih feruiizer distibution anud use
in the early years of the project; (c) the delays in harvesting of blocks that did not have road
access in time for the first appreciable harvest; and (d) the increased cost of access road
maintenance.
All proiect benefits are not included in the economic analysis: (a) the direct and specific benefit to
women in oil palm households through the "mama lus frut" program is substantial, but is not
nn...na,4 i.  C&0 nlSx,0 n4,e 4n as .t " -&   anti ar.d  tha envirnn al beefts of nn. hlrmn
a culture of environmental conservation in OPIC staff and in the management of the"processing
miii company are not quanuiied. Consequenuy, the reai ERR-i woulid be significanuty n'igher thnn
the current base estimate of 10.7%.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out to determine the impact of palm oil price fluctuations.
Increases of palm oil prices by 10% and 20% resulted in ERRs of 12.7% and 14.6%, while
-14 -



decreases of 10% and 20% resulted in ERRs of 8.4% and 5.8%, respectively, demonstrating the
project's high sensitivity to oil palm revenues.
4.4 Financiai rate of return:
T.M- :-ect p--Ject w^.fc--e as-uicpsi +U_l i -: _Ls -ce n-_rAd QA80        ---.p-ed
I 11V, ULLVIL JJLVJJVI.iL WVJ,11UL'LWO aa Ja UI.4jJ,1aLJ.II LU LU1q'VU jJaJJ.U 0%11JL% U1LJ~LLAVL1% -T,UIJV %%LpCALFQ&1%
to the appraisal target of 3,250. This increase was in response to demand following promotion of
the program, and is a reflection of the financial attractiveness of the scheme for smaulnoiders. ine
appraisal estimated a financial rate of return (FRR) for a typical smallholder block of about 20%.
The current analysis estimates a FRR of 24.5% for the new planting model and 15.1% for the
replanting model; the latter variation was not analyzed at appraisal, as indicated above. At
appraisal, the net family oil palm income at peak production in the new planting model after
nllnuwina fnr lahnr hbut hbofnre any rnvrvmient de1iwtinhn (no 3A0/% nf inet ravmentR of gomwe.rq) wac
K430 per annum in constant 1992 Kina, or US$496 in constant 2002 terms, which compares with
U3$8OVO UIn LV c- MLULLL mdUUl, aganIL VAPIdULIg UiLg higU  Ur.LU4LU fio piauu.ug.  SLLWAIL.LVU.L2
sub-loan repayments and the total repayment periods have varied, and will vary, with the
fluctuation in farm-gate prices.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Although most of tne institutional strenigtening subcomnponents -wer implemented (section 4.2),
the unsatisfactory arrangements for civil works during most of the project period and the need for
OPIC to further develop its analytical skills to enhance its effectiveness, detract from this
accomplishment. The achievements in this component are rated as Modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was partially affected by these influences. The relatively low world price for palm oil
irl_L eAlly 1990s al.ec &- f-* p.ices -h.chL- -^ - some 4 ng ve e+. on +U- -41- '-ges  f
I LLLU V4LLJY 1.7.7U 4U1VCL1W4 L& II ULL j 0, WAULV& IILaJ DULU,~I~G. UVr,V% %ILI.$.d WLUL "U,'V YLLLALSU100 MA.
growers to replant palms in the old scheme. The relative isolation of the Oro province and the
lack of a well-established civil works contracting capacity incunred difficulties in the road and
social infrastructure program for a large part of the project. However, had institutional
management problems in this component been effectively addressed at an earlier stage, it is likely
that an appropriate contracting capacity would also have developed much earlier in the project
life. The social unrest in Oro in the mid-1990s had a negative impact on the project
imnlementtinn nverall, hiut eqneciallv on the access mad construction subcomnonent-
5.2 Factors generally sublect to government control:
A verv positive intervention by the government was the devaluation and managed float of the
PNG Kina in early 1995. This had a major effect on profitability of oil palm culture, with
^"Canirniat ;"fors-at ;in nt,.,,ine- intna anti pnt;niiipA siinrinrt for  the i,niiiitru,  T.nwp.Vpr the
'.JW-.1dL  WbLI   nn       . -, *_-rr               -.1-1-
unsatisfactory management arrangement for the civil works subcomponents had a substantially
deuimentai enfec on project imp----l--aiion. vwviuiu uie w pusL-puJV;L SuppUrL from Uil ri'%j ir,
the deficit in access road construction would have had serious social consequences in Oro and
negative consequences for the economics of the project. Of similar importance was the lack of



funding for maintenance of constructed access roads. Although this was to be a provincial
resp-onsiluLy, U1, rVULVL11 Ma1LUiLY Ul p.UVcLULI  ILLLULU. fLUIU UL1e %.VLLL LJJflUv- m 1rUA i.GLt
allocations to road maintenance extremely difficult and it did not occur. The project coordination
committees (national and provincial) formed as a condition of ioan effectiveness proved
inadequate to address these serious issues. Although the existence of the AusAID-funded OCP
and the subsequent support from Conservation Melanesia allowed successful implementation of
the environmental component, the very weak support afforded to DEC operations potentially
could have had serious negative consequences. Unlike many other projects in PNG that were
connstrained hy the laCk of countemrart fimding, thi was not the case with this prnject- A verm
substantial counterpart budget was provided in 1996 and OPIC was able to retain and manage this
IUUU Und UL p1UJecLL comple' on. HoweWvVe, iL 2000 ULL taLUUL:e   =. aUL .jJoUVL5 LuL VUUU5%LaL3
appropriation for the project meant that the critical road construction contract tendering had to be
delayed.
5.3 Factors generally subject to impiementing agency controi:
OPiC generaily performecd weiu i implementpig tne pruect.  However, a muir ana yuctu
approach to identifying and analyzing problems affecting implementation (e.g., in palm replanting
and use of fertilizer) could have resulted in an even greater positive impact. The performance of
DOWT operating under an agreement with OPIC was unsatisfactory. It did not operate with due
consideration of the basic objective of its role in providing access roads and other infrastructure in
a timely manner. Individual officers appeared to be more the cause of this problem than the
department per se, as evidenced in the improvement in performance at times when individuals
wer .    ved from responsi.ble posi.tions.  However, this does not deta-ct from the poor
performance and results, and systems in place appeared to be unable to prevent delinquent
benavior on the part of some ocers.
5.4 Costs and financing:
LLLV eLIJV-A  LU Uw Uto  Lbe enVL1.L UL oI sY ULe, but touk 8.5 y.ao.  1.me. was a dLG  *
signing after Board presentation (10 months) because government was questioning whether the
project should proceed in the face of deteriorating iaw and order conditions in Oro, and the major
drop in international palm oil prices. Loan disbursements were behind schedule from early in the
project and were only about 30% of target until after the original closing date. The main reason
for the slow disbursement rate was the poor performance of the civil works component that was
to absorb 48% of loan funds. Devaluation of the local currency also reduced reimbursement for
eligble local currency. US$5.6 milnn of t1w. US$27 millin loa-n was cance-lled afer the proje1ct
was extended at end-1999.
The smallholder oil palm development costs were only 32% more than the appraisal estimate
despite this component exceeding its targeted area by 48%. This was due to the currency
devaluation and most of the costs being in the local currency. The exchange rate changed from
KO.95 to the US$ at appraisal to K2.9 at project closure. The access road component reached
78% of its tar2et distance and cost 79% of the appraisal estimate. The saving that would have
been made through currency devaluation (although relatively less than for palm planting) was
of.set to some degree by constrcting all the acce-ss roads to one specification that uwas foind
-16-



most suitable for local conditions, rather than having some to lower specifications. Similarly,
building and social infiastructure cost less than half of the appraisal estimate in US$ even though
the program was largely completed. Technical assistance exceeded its target by 134%. This was
due to the component absorbing many of the expenditures that would have been undertaken by
DAL had it been institutionally develoDed as anticiDated, and also to the recruitment of one
expatriate consultant as senior project manager/advisor after nationalization of the management
staff and the supervising mechanic and the logistics officer in OPIC; these were not foreseen at
dpp,ULW5.. -ZperILLULLUM5 uy pLUU1-LLuIiL ar-Wrdlge;liIL Were aWoUUUI8 LU pila, a^,U V4l1dtUloI AU
the relative contributions of government and the Bank to project expenditures were also within
acceptable limits.
6. Sustainability
O)n hRlnne., the mi0asinhilitv nf the cmrrent -nd rni-tM hpxene.fitq iq liktlv  Hnwever- this is
contingent on a number of measures that GoPNG intends to implement.
The government has stated its support for the palm oil industry as contributing to agricultural
production and exports, rural income diversification and poverty alleviation. it has formally
requested the Bank's involvement in further development of the oil palm subsector. The physical
production environment is ideal for oil palm. Prospects for reasonable prices for palm oil as an
internationally traded commodity are satisfactory, thereby promoting continued investment in the
industry. A mechanism to ensure appropriate profit sharing between smalflholder fruit producers
and imillino rnmnmniim is in ,nlam, The nil nrnncQqino inqtiittinnor sare tyneripi-nepA anid have a innod
track record, and service arrangements for smallholders (input supply and technical guidance) are
weu VeLtULWUu 'uO  ar,  aindLIL4UlY - Ut4,UUo14UJLL LmVUrri jforIJ*LU4L LV,0PUUMULUL, WIL UIIWLL
of smallholders, is financially supported by a levy system, as is the oil palm research institution,
OPRA. Smailholder interest in oil palm cultivation continues to be high, and should not cumirus.
if reasonable prices continue for fresh fiuit and fruit is regularly collected.
A critical factor for sustainability is the planned construction of the access roads that is still
pending in the Oro expansion area. The application by OPIC/GoPNG to the PNG IF promises to
prnvitie the rePAmireA finding. Apprnpriate. civil wnrlk-' nlnnning and mnp..isinn o!anacitv is in
place and contractor capacity exists in the province. Maintenance of constructed access roads
coIr,LLU*b LU prob l, and r utbl. y a Ud   UVrLVV of ULL%.VLLJLU U.he iLLV, reILUU r  "UG
measures are operational. Although the economics of the project look only at the economic life
of the crops planted under the project, the potential full economic benefits will only be obtained if
the palms are replanted after the end of their economic harvesting life. The reticence of many
growers to replant, especially in the early years of the project, must be thoroughly analyzed and
programs adopted to address this deficiency. A current socio-economic study by the Australian
Council of International Agricultural Research (ACIAR) is addressing this issue. Projected
arnAntinn l!vplc uill n.nlv hp bfhtint if reaonAle use nf fertili7r inpiit rnntirnliP ePqneiallv asq
much of the planting is on grassland areas with relatively low inherent fertility. The OPIC
angUR UL UI.LUIUIUUUL bybLU  WLLI PVLUUL IUVIULUIILL UI Lil bILU4UVU 4ULU IVU1   a%UU1L LU UV,
-17-



programmed if necessary. The likely continued involvement of the Bank in supporting
government in the subsector will provide the opportunity for it to .monitor progress in
implementation of these measures that are necessary for sustainability, and respond accordingly.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
With respect to oil palm plantings, OPIC and HOP will continue to provide the required services
in input supply, technical advice and fruit collection. The important "mama lus frut" program will
continue and be expanded as part of regular OPIC field staff activities. OPIC will also continue as
a statutory body. Staffing in both OPIC and HOP is at sustainable levels, and effective delivery
systems are in place. It will be also be essential to maintain the core management group in OPIC's
headquarters - General Secretary, Financial Controller, and the Development Officer. OPIC is
now awDare of the nsatisfactor- urage levZeLs of fetiliz-e, and is ;;i the prcess of developing
programs to address this problem. The institutional and contractor capacity to complete the
access road network exists, wiith friuding of'i e ci-vi worms planned under the PNG LrF. As no
new plantings are immediately envisaged, there is no concern about damage to forest or QABB
habitat, and OPIC staff are now well trained in adherence to conservation principles in any case.
With respect to continuation of the palm replanting progrnam that was gaining momentum towards
the end of the proiect, the GoPNG did not appropriate the funds reauested by OPIC in the 2002
budget. In addition, the Rural Development Bank has reported that it is unable to support new
laenA;inrr nn tln arp in 2002. rIwaninc tdtiy of this satwge ftlkovp ;a is^ mn progr   *,n ftn% ine
with this development on a significant scale until a new source of funding is identified.
Government appropriated K750,000 in the 2002 budget to OPIC for maintenance of access roads.
HOPL will also continue to maintain roads in the absence of regular government support. These
two sources and the utilization of some of the Bank's road maintenance project funds should be
able to provide a minimum level of maintenance until more regular and appropriate annual funding
sources are in place. However. this. and the timelv Drovision of the new access road network. are
the two issues that need close attention and monitoring by all stakeholders.
For future monitoring of the project's development impact, the management inforrnation system
developed unuer the project anu outer nur anu OPriC sources snoulu provine tue oasic uaia ior
analysis. Key indicators should include (a) average production levels being realized at the
different maturities, (b) variation in these production levels, and a comparison of production for
selected palm maturities for blocks that are dominantly grassland or degraded forest, (c) fertlizer
usage levels, (d) a measure of collection trips per annum in each zone or subzone (to reflect road
condition and maintenance), (e) the number of developed blocks for which access has not vet been
provided, (to reflect progress in completing this program), (f) the percentage of oil palm block
holdings in   e   ach  zne for .mich there is a        w` lus  . a,unt (to reflect p.5g.ss - U
important social impact component), and (g) the number of blocks in the old Popondetta Scheme
hua nave engaged in a repiantung program, using eitller the expired project resource, Rural
Development Bank resource or other resource, and dissection of results into village oil palm and
settlement scheme blocks or areas (to monitor the palm replanting progress).
In the proposed involvement of the Bank in future support for the subsector, it will have the



opportunity to interact with OPIC to ascertain progress and monitor the key issues that affect
development impact.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
At the closing of the Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project in 1984, the
government expressed interest iin thUe Bank becoinUg involved in another prwOecL ii iUC suosector.
This led to a comprehensive identification mission report in 1987 and a preparation report in
November 1988. A series of missions followed to further develop the project content and resolve
issues leading to a final appraisal mission in February 1992.
The identification process was consistent with the government's and the Bank's development
strategy for PNG. An analysis of the sector and the physical, social and institutional environment
in ro pvrvinrce was made.   A iimAt't .; i^k     m   a*afo+ enA rnvallldIeAr ^il ijalm
development in both the Popondetta and Kokoda regions, and also estate and smallholder cocoa
at Kokoda, was proposed. This content persisted throughn te preparation process in a US$76.6
million project. At preparation, identified uncertainties included the need for transfer of land to
HOP for the estate development component, funding arrangements for the estate expansion, and
farmer behavior concemrmng the use of fertlizer to achieve the intended yields and the adoption of
a palm replanting policy, all of which proved pertinent.
A number of major issues developed in the ensuing period, which the Bank managed carefully in
an i+-r-+nrn -.-fos *1.at -. oPe. A, bu-t -..l. cAM --esl +  a nn.  -t +t.+ had; 9.11 govere..t
ULi L~LU ~F1 V  OO "&IUL VVa4 0 J1I.VIL DJ %VT, OUU~V1.~L TY LLA%1 %% L10%AL LUJ CS jALJ%JJ%.L LUUOL 1JMAU ALLLL  WV%'.1I.UI..1L
comaitment and the support of HOP as the cooperating oil processing firm. The difficulty in
being able to transfer land to HOP led initially to its restricting its plans, and finally to a
cancellation of the estate development component. The cocoa proposal was dropped due to the
difficulty in identifying a reliable means of credit recovery. Deciding on the credit agency for
smallholder oil palm and subsequently the interest rate that should be charged and the degree of
subsidy that could be tolerated on oil palm seedlings was a very extended process. A further
comnlication was a drastic fall in nalm oil nrices and in nmiections that required reworking of the
financial models to ensure that the project would be attractive to smallholders. The price sharing
*40.1L g'V la -. .                      ---UA and  he -Ll        -A also eed vYiUL  VerU. and a more ejhIle
formula agreed. Although not identified as a consideration in the initial preparation report, the
Bank insisted on the inclusion of an environmental component that wouid protect the habitat of
the QABB, and convinced government of the importance of this aspect of the project. Relevant
non-government organizations and experienced consultants were involved to develop this
component.
The final appraisal renort correctly assessed the commitment of government, OPIC as the main
implementing agency, and the potential participants in the oil palm expansion program. However,
it did not adeq.uately assess the commimet of growers mt he old Popondetta scheme to planting
replacement palms; this is reflected in the need to change the emphasis from "reserve area
planting" to 'repianting" at the M- ic, and the reticence of the majority of settlement scheme
growers to invest in replanting, especially in the early years of the project. The overall design of
-19-



the project was generally consistent with institutional capacity to implement it, with one
exception. Reliance on DOWT "assisting" OPIC to carry out the access road component and on
coordination commit-tees to eRnsUre performance pmved to he inappnroriate.  Nevertheless;
DOWT had performed successfully in the earlier Popondetta project, and a variation of the
Cool ULULJa.UVIJ %.AJUi11ULL%7 4.1 VLUVmUL ICLLUe1L WILLL 4. +-LV-Lr-V-1 JI4ULUO-V1L ULIV'VIVVOIU%IL %J1 .1 '.CL .U U
officer in the Department of Finance) had worked in the earlier project.
The eventual demise of HTPL could not be foreseen as its financial position was satisfactory at
appraisal, despite it registering a loss in 1991.  Financial and cost projections were generally
realistic. In practice, the yield proQiections at appraisal were not realized, as the project was unable
to ensure the required level of fertilizer application and farm management. The concern for the
O)AR1 2nit ite hahitnt wwq we1l cov.ered No referencre ws.q made to nolicies of clearance of forest
in its various forms, as preparation had indicated that no primary forest existed in the plains that
were to be   d   eeopd and fo.-t1  wa assed.  to be ir.se.ou l deae sA.  at e ir4  p-+L ti
LVUV UVUIJjJVU, a4UaU 4.11 1U1VL W4b dbDULUVLU IAJ UV LUk 01-IIuuALY UV,.14.UVU OL6q. L FIa4.u%,v u11O
was not completely correct.
7.2 Supervision:
The task manager responsible for preparation and appraisal was reassigned after Board
presentation.  Supervision frequency anud ie mix of expetise included in mlssiois were
satisfactory.  The Bank's policies and procedures were substantially followed in project
implementation. When the DOWT introduced some tendering practices for the relatively small
contracts under the project that were not in accordance with Bank guidelines, supervision
intervened and these practices were corrected. Environmental protection received its deserved
attention. When, following some confusion on what constituted a "degraded forest", OPIC staff
intended to include some development blocks that foresters would consider to be "significantly
egene-a-+A forest" tis w as corrected by supervision inte ention and meA neA were AfA-d to
avoid a recurrence. On two consecutive missions in mid-project implementation, progress was
correcuy rated as unsauisfactory.
Despite the satisfactory overall performance of supervision, a change in arrangements in the latter
part of the project could be associated with the better project performance in that period. While
earlier supervision correctly identified problems affecting the project, the later, more interactive
approach permitted thorouAh isolation of constraints and apnronriate action nroQrams to be
developed with OPIC management. The change was associated with the use of an experienced
10-B-l- -4-4 --.4- ':rig- n e-     A...  z;- Up --A-"-- oo -e t- A- Ah,2y w  tiin
19A-hJ~uu& OLa.L1 WI.UIIDUIIIL LLVAYr IU 1 LL.G1 UY rLUOLMLGUG, IML&L' UIILVI U'J iL'lrLaLL %J-LJ.%JA&.IJiL   OUjJ. V OWPJI
and also visited OPIC management once between supervisions when supervising another Bank
project in P-NG. At the same time, the task manager responsibie for project appraisal was
reassigned for the last years of the project. Use of this approach was a conscious decision by
EASRD management to improve project performance. A QAG review rated supervision as
Satisfactory.
7.3 OverallBankperformance:
Considering the above, the Bank performance in its lending for, and supervision of, the project is
considered Satisfactory.
-20-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Although the Bank organized the major part of the preparation work with the assistance of
FAO/wB investment Center stf, govermmeni was engagea througnout the process, particularly
through DAL as the agency responsible for the oil palm sector before OPIC was created. It
worked through the credit issues with the Bank to arrive at an appropriate credit arrangement.
With concern for the attractiveness of oil palm investment for smallholders, it insisted that it
review the financial models that had to be reworked when palm oil prices collapsed before
annraisal.
7.5 Government implementation Performance:
Government largely met its commitments to the proiect. This. inter alia. included establishing the
Financial Management Agreement with HTPL and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with OPIC;
Qnticfn('tnrv m2nina Pn,1t nf thkp rnniiprt 4Z1ipedial Anprnirnt- nvmninftnpnt ,nf lrou rniacpnipnt
satifnrnrymangement of the project Se-ia!- A -.,t;apsnmn of ke      angme.
personnel in OPIC; meeting the environmental program obligations of the project; providing
suIIcieUnL lWar. co-IU-UWLV tnLL  uinL so uK11  u1%sU -w-as [IW L a coiisU-5ib  w pL)rvJUeL iplmenUaiiuuu; adU
establishing suitable palm fruit pricing formulas for smallholder deliveries in collaboration with the
processing industry. When the smallholder services that were being provided by HTPL began to
suffer due to management and financial problems in this public company, responsibilities were
appropriately reallocated to HOP, with the agreement of the latter. All of these functions were
essential for successful project implementation. Although not directly linked to the project, the
devaluation of the PNG Kina in 1995 had a major positive effect on producer prices, which almost
dniibled.
On the negative side, however, adequate funding for access road maintenance was not made
availau:e;, UIe Ua iriUU  wLd pro-viUnui L iuu[ uon uomniueI s -were in eHVuLuvt in adur-ssing
issues affecting the project, particularly the unsatisfactory performance of DOWT in the
infrastructure component; DEC received little budgetary support after the closure of the AusAID
OCP that dealt with the environment aspects of the project; and the Commercial Investment
Division of the Department of Planning did not provide the annual funding to HTPL that was
needed to procure input supplies for the smaDlholder development (HTPL used its own funds for a
time, then borrowed funds from HOP, and finally funding for this purpose was provided to HTPL
and its su ccessor, HOP, through the OPIC budget.). The ineffectiveness of the raional
coordination committee was also demonstrated in the excessive delay incurred in confirming that
ute applicable loan fund appropnaiions wo-Ud be made to allow the loan exiension past end-i999;
this unnecessarily delayed the issue of contracts for the critical road construction program that
was the main objective of the extension. Govenmment was not diligent in the provision of audited
accounts, with major delays occumng until the last few years of the project implementation. This
was partly due to tardiness in preparation of accounts by the implementing agencies, but
especially to delays incurred in the Office of the Auditor General due to staffing constraints in that
office.
.7.6 Implementing Agency:
OPIC, as the main implementing agency, was appropriately staffed at headquarters and in the
-2i -



field. After some initial communication problems, it also worked well with, and supported, the
Popondetta Growers Association.  OPIC was very successful in implementing the core
CnmpnnFPnt nf ne-w sunr mlq¶hn1iPr n1nting, hbut be  pf.feivpe in arpnating dpmnqnd fnr nilm
replanting and in ensuring productivity. The factors associated with the limited accomplishments
ur--e ttie ~L_te have been e o 'e in   _ Aetin 4..H---e, it_ is   ly-a lEp   ol
uiuUVrLL, UIV LLUI UldVr UrVU UlLVI4IUULU JLL seCUUII 't.l.. EIUWVVVI, IL lb ULViy LU4L P1061CI55 WVULUU
have been better if the OPIC extension service had been more analytical in managing this
program. Similarly, Whilst the introduction of a Management intormation System in early 2000
was useful, it has not been fully utilized to understand issues. In the early project years, project
implementation reporting was linked to planned expenditure under the annual OPIC program
approved by its board (along with other subprograms in other smallholder areas). When specific
reporting against the project's overall objectives was adopted from end-1999, it was not
presn--ted in an informative w,ay thnt demonstrted an understanding of using the repnrt fnr
management purposes.  This aspect of OPIC's operations needs improvement.  Similarly,
supervision, reports ir,dicatedU uit uieie wva in4uuquae cnJmuniuauion Wi[Uill uiLe OPIC
management team; such communication is essential for efficient management.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On the basis of the above observations, the Borrower's performance is rated as Satisfactory.
However, in any future oil palm development schemes, and indeed for existing smauinoider
schemes, the issue of provision of funds for access road maintenance must be addressed.
8. Lessons Learned
Lessons learned from the project experience include:
(a)   The project provides another example of smallholder tree crop development being an
appropriate model to promote agriculturai development, create rural employment and alleviate
poverty, and enhance export income, provided the scheme is properly designed and implemented
and the international commodity price is acceptable. In this context, the implementation
experience highlights the fact that in order to get the full benefits from such a tree crop
development project, as originally envisaged, it is essential that the Government and the project
aaPne-;ces plnreO Pniuql inmnnrhatunr tn rnmp!mrPntrnu ini.tiupf e1-in mrurl infmeuvnuhirnp Appvlnnp,int
and delivery of technical services and inputs.
(b)   As this type of project usually involves a number of components that nornally do not
pertain to a single government institution, it is essential to ensure effective means of coordinating
activities and providing prompt attention to issues that can threaten implementation. The
*coordination committees created in the project were not effective. In the earlier Popondetta oil
palm proiect, the existence of a Project Management Committee chaired by the Secretarv of DAL.
but with an executive officer in the Office of Project Coordination in the Department of Finance,
-VnlrA h0..0.. T-T--rnao, im flon~a jnont n"  f Wnonor-re -i,If A- tu 1o- 44t a t-mn af 'oAn
wo:ked WWt.e:. Y.o_F" -e,r          W.. Deen   of W "_ "c nowdos not 2,e ^;s .y,, ofW& ds
office. The Technical Director and Field Manager positions in that earlier project were in DAL,
and OrIC ably assumed tuese poslutons ana functuons im the uro project. M mimzig the number
of executing units is an obvious way to reduce the need for a strong coordination framework, but
the components in the Oro project were not excessive and were all part of, or linked to, the core
activity of oil palm development. The social infrastructure component was less associated than
- 22 -



other parts, but it was a means of developing support for OPIC's program.
(c)   As access roads to allow collection of fresh fruit are critical for success, the institutional
and funding arrangements to enable their timely construction and subsequent maintenance must
receive high priority. Because of the substantial expenditure involved in both construction and
maintenance, the road distance per smallholder block serviced must be minimized. This is ensured
hy maximmiAg the oil palm development along any aeeess roma.
-         4   _   _r - _  
I FIo Luau %.AUOLLL%LLLLUI U1, auvw e juy VI ULle pL4lU U,UdesibULuVLpvisiLU vapi.wy dJIU aubo ULe
availability of sufficient capable contractors are critical. Both elements were problematical in
the Oro Project. in the earlier Popondetta project, the DOwT did perform satisfiactorily, and
was instrumental in bringing additional contractors to the province when a deficiency in this
capacity in the early years of the project became evident. However, while there were brief
periods when relationships and output improved, the attitudes of key personnel in DOWT
were a cause for major concern until the closing years of the Oro project. At that time, the
consuiltancy firm acted  m-nnngerof fOPID with a mandt.te from thie rplpvant dirPctnr in
DOWT to interact intensively with OPIC, with minimal intervention from DOWT in Port
ivivorby.
* Provision for access road maintenance is as essential as the construction of the network. The
preparation report on the Oro project specified that annual provision would be made through
the central government budget. This did not occur. Some new mechanisms are in place, and
their effectiveness will be essential for success in future smallholder oil palm development
proiect.
(di)  tin dev1n nmnt nrnorvmm in w1L--h ru-- ess isa 1iinri tn the sittitiieds -nd adontion bphavior
of smallholders, it is necessary to have an effective monitoring capability. This not only implies a
management ..foUU LUonLL JLL bjMIU fLo coLL1Uw,LLVU UI 4apprLUpL1tL d., (JUL U1bU ar, aUbILy LU a- L1iyel
data and carry out survey/study work as a basis for corrective action when a problem is identified.
Despite an information system and a comprehensive GIS being installed in the latter years of the
project, OPIC was deficient in data analysis. This suggests the need for a dedicated unit with
analytical ability.
(e)   The success of the environment component with the assistance of the OCP, demonstrates
the imnort nee of tak-ing into aceount envimnmental nninrtern at an early atncre of nmie-t demicnm
It also confirms the advantage of having a dedicated unit to oversee environmental concerns when
LUJ proodoppos-u. %sUYV    e oLU&JJ.UL  forO U1V FJULLUM I jjuuA 11ouA1YV UV:.   UUVJI: LL  I.-'11qUe. JLc. UV,
poor budgetary support for the DEC officers in Oro subsequent to the closure of OCP further
supports this contention.
(f)   Social infrastructure can advantageously complement the productive investment in oil
palm. At the local level, OPIC had a dialogue with the relevant government departments in
locating the built infiastructure, but there was little specified on this linkage in the appraisal
dnoument. To be most effectivej such nrorarnq should  o_mnlerent and he intenrated into
provincial or local programs for the sector involved.






9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL PLANNNG AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
12 June 200'2
WB. 12.0 1/'LOR
Mr. KLaus Robland
Country Director
East Asia-Pacllc Region
Level 18, CML Building, 14 Mardn ?lace
Svdney. NSW 2000
Australia
Dear Mr. Rohland
gal       THE WORpD BANK ORO SXAHLDE                Om 7MM
WhIP:LE    A,TON COMPLETiON REPORT a CO         1;
1 nave the honor on behalf of tne Governent of Papua New Guinea to
sincerely thank the Worid Bank for its invaluable loan a6sisUce in
it4. -n1,rwt y l o-? tinxr +kq AWn Ar olihn1iqar (1 nP0n n le%mi t
Project TIhe Government acknowledges the slgniica imp&ct the Prqject
has created in terirs of improved performance of oil palm sub-sector and
Its ability to contribute to the national economy and the living standards
of thc smallholder farmers. It ;a in our (the Government and the Bank)
mutual interest tat thX e invaluabie les kt     -Ixm- h   b
completed Project be replicated in the design and implementaton of
future Hank assisted Droiects.
At this juncture, I am pleased to forward to you the Borrower's (PNGj
Implementation Completion Report and its comments on the Bank's draft
umplemenCtlon Completion Report for your appropriate acnon.
As you are aware, the Govemrnent is currently deigning its own
National Poverty Reduction Strategy with its malor features streamlined
into the new Medium Term Dcvelopment Stratey 2003-2007, with the
-24 -



2
later's  proposed  theme  of Pavertv  Reduc4p    tbryAh    Ral
Deveopment. In terms of the Oovernment's key developet focus,
economic sector would be given a high priority with the vt   to exped
the internal revenue base for the economy to be able to support the
snoial sardr  This fonr is tn he sunnnrtA wit-h mond inifastrurture
network as well as a conducive environment through good governance. In
,i-wa CLa AkV     sL  ,ew V.fG .t.. 4L           .d..a u Lc  .im .L...aJ
invaluable support and assistance in the development of P'G'e oil palm
indusy in the aculture sector.
Should you have any query in connecton to the attached Report, please
do not hesitate to contact me on phone 16751 328 8507 or facsimile (6751
323 3147.
Yp9nrely,
a ks L a Kws.yaitla
Cc:rMr.Felixaka      gmagin   --r-ct-r OP
Cc: Mr. Fellx Baka4i Managing Director, OPIC



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
5VMRWWE          CuM[MEK
T*%a t-Aam  mnn  tit n awnnuiithn  h viemflt*Ir mnnrkaenl v?the P6000deta Oi Paln
NO*deus Estat Schenma whih Irickd smatloler And       ad astrut1rUe devebpment
compoonwt based on 1voumable e  seic in eadlir pm*jet hn PN
The prject desgn was consistt wiM 1he obp    e of the   Bernn    and h     ank in
supporti  susWinai, d*WdQm*ai in ie rm'i areas troug         CMii er o palm oWevpa
Signiftcant nuntew of ursa sftsi be iend substiiially In cash Incon with flwon edes to
&A. 1-1 =   -.  ' '   ... .* ..    -4m -..4 h. bvi . ? hat mkhl.bnwu$  hIt' ae
ptknmy hTp _rnting agency was inely powt i992) and mA as 1t was dedlchted
euluively torD wailholder oU oalm pDmduc3r
The projsct has substnal Increased afaltd  produtidhn and exepf of p*Jn do wd bwe dl
baially due to toe maor oll palm plantng prgram. TMe iraOs   numDer ot parOpaUng
1emnrs, ov  Ithe apprald taebut by 4 , cor*i  e qempblyet an In-come bebift of th
p                                   ro.Il  J.DfEIII5II.  P1JmElll W4M @M IIUU OD bUPA~W  4. NwC* UWdIWIlmu
lhst the mebisnenos of lncof e of smaifold  ton die ok sceme wasoan pW   succe$w
Th .af ,                           t      mm    tn f  a  e   n         r naeeded
teball, of e bloed  ilpd unde th     jet Despfite ulgrdfolant
shoWi&Ws under   iftuctu   e .coiponent, lie 6ve   oWit IMpad of the.project an be
considoed as Saniatory.
tas cad inthme o he .fen       oN pa     s pided i   iser   n   rf Iwii  iu h
enhanced the c~padlv fof.aoo6nip producon. Fb  yiearle and 'betet ri lon is *Uler
*A-m,ft,sM 1w *ia Inhn t!in Al the imn I,1Km nfmP cinn,wa %aM -sbfinu  wrnmfl ._n m their
The sod.cinomrnc Impact of the oag-paln developme t Ib grieter thIn any 1ther crop In 1e
county and ks dirc   'tormsbl fo toh cosi      on arnd min  nan      hi,
paIcubwy tnspor IriaSffudhmu. .Th proq i a"so dire-y respoamie. torie esusnmm of
heaflt and education -f1lms and p;i4eo cansilslian  of cash h Wme and kproves lieO*g
Beskds te ardsion of sodal and tnfvustuowe esrms In ie proned ma_. _k maMh ers havie
beinted    ugh higher thmasndihgin and inpimumomntt ihwds ard social aiTs, 1hus enabling
bcal rsdMents beter  dft ao     and chidren easderamcess to sce;ols
fHence Prot acdMries. higher omes and b  r roads have had obsable relwis n a 1iIer
b  n a '  .--   .   n iz
The    acnmirat-planon Oogram was changed b a. rprdng imerai when It becme clarm
lhat plantgs on resaw land were unsuaal bebiause of *an and a    s d    mairtenarive
o1 oU painm at the ak.of. te b   This deyed the.  g  for som    s as g   s did  t
ax a   n u papal i       . wws -rugn p! uupiua an     a     yaumas suhv    sd nol
-26 -



-                12~~~4
0                                tc~~~~~~~~~ 
hA' I       j  '%& ~~~~~~~~IiIhSiI  j j~~~~~j4I I~-s:
~~~~ ilL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IJI 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



oz ~   ~     ~     -so
m8% Mm AX4!pq q q sgedet qsiwuw PMInAs pus WoMb 6oWsi0'nl 0 q
flOuasia sl ~z~i4 jo uu  a4l oUPRAS pus uisRuad. ul ayAp  we% sIPs 'UAi
)MM  195"VidF
OOIAOId auo aQ sONoflI Se3
waz-pu Ul PSeAs SQ 4p Pewadx  wjd 6oueuww u pew pepoi aW ppoM Y  (3)
.f46*40= pepAuB q ppium puv -swmqu pea lo wummupw p.!4
iGIar 14 apw toeWS JMd4PKouu ju hs      su DAuPMWd go
^ 81 SooI u! PUOO Sar I   eN U Aq p  Oiddu wm s wumvoldd .iou  (e)
MMB OMO eq Aq uwog4MpUn s aw4e
iohp la JSau r.iS D.  Dial Mm, nwo  )UwwUw JuW oddks AisieCon mumuw wodu umdv
Pep.'St~ UdWsfod GA we4sdua pt qjw.1sA
B W1W4 5WfeOW dOs@UP AMu, ME -# -SA5UNW4 'dQH Puff No qDflolAul - wu3uWwJ
pew a°l seAmoS p WrO se4 A*puI aq4  wopa  q Jo Osm=og  jqq ueWX
S Lnema m    mau'n , - -!dmd i   t  m _u  n a  'a s-a m nmidsiuan so ax
oaeq spuoob.Gli to~osX  Wapow peJudux CPSauJ mnzria qiQA Aq B 91 4,
'Ue                       -,Pno s  pods 'v uuow rpwd i9sBduwoume &Mqeua uJ
ssodrnd q SAISO w   s~ e- Immm s v1uft1m Pes w -  a ii guo eouIunuew imu Pn4stO =uo
_ pew PM  gdwQo opMROoWdOq. to 0*%UMA*dw esWwR JO 5I41JAS Gig saoaaquoo
pue paeJazd uaoq eq eApu9.L pool an PG#4Mde .ut5 ouquplaqo 4 u eods odl put ;O
pue 2i JS.G. wepowd puba  .spnbsu &ipuj ,q punjA ?.uu s d 0 p.uwdde s4
P,dg wt pt is^*3 4:4i eL_ pwejdd-wuq s-G_ v9.u
t4 wI¶buP Jo $pi pzeam4umOnb. iusiowzl t, qa saM,4ut PONO&  (a)
wu,ioeJiD, p w pue uo  , 8RqMMN
uu OdO put MOI u1Rq Oput OIIL 'P1 moo ex Pu8 (Iwo  Q SUOL  (P1
'Moo Aq sinpaw?d fupspueqe 04o uowats=pse a4li4 asmwfdAs ijaJ O8L  (')
'g66I Ln"od uFqc    909W p0IDNdOO OI P 1s WSOJWU Mj  (a)
%;wn ua= iaq pOew eV uL! SLPp "Pg X4 suossw luioq 15Gw .atu
ilRdu4 iq . PDwAaid wsms M H uo.d ppuwdxa ue
01Sf)ipl4I7.Wue a Iew UiNj4 P1Usid a'p uupywJ WpN^ ~ wsP up~ 'w!iaua [VU4



VINWI  nVr. VW iu,nmn~  Atl
no Iwn"ow", "°."nt.rnrv u0
:(JoIoas eWAld/sOoN) sWmd.iylo (a)
:sJ9pvu1boo (q)
J4a_    pXwj P eoau' ' zaed (ogU0) %AkewWoA 64 UiOs
__man, a",_~ 'M *Po   -io AMll sa' & 0 Umo S*Uwi
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~4Pm wen,4w                   uu
" tllty 5> _ _Us D&W Gum                 i0 -*1_ m
sL ' " |4 . ti0U-" W> t 1P p@ *       Am   u e
e41 ~ ~ ~~mmo 14 sw-1etlTl%IU iiltu   uOun °°  o $mu
u,j gax ut .eupejear UB,P  uqu., i,~i 01tF O,UBd  _
UK K q   AMP q~~oU 0flPUM qpzwe# VW" ~i  uA4 1SiUm  ;IW3 q% ipiS9 U
y14t6i ^ _'*m "    wpU 6u w4 UUUI_ IA94 3
=Il i5. 1D- a"  lUW ai l . T O_
.#ue.Oua0aeupid~ ~WWW''q aaapuq- uo sID ,m* 'Jpo, uspasoip.eu
"1 ~~p;''1> 1tpo W&fo it ,W 'n '                tpq ej
UK Eli-*!sp jl  MUW4 WIp wJI f4 i'4!JW  54 pm -UUI Wl m .Jwm
sum,    S   U 9t. paf mu aiqm hw. ioU Ss uap pw  nSapabloaupo
- .mup*ad i§mp~ pis guipf 4 id4i * jaj $a 'umipt s.aa*q
mamu;su p'se osadu trm *  d  wdW  _IQA WJ0UM 3 k. uUI0fD0A4  W



AieLIMtX 1. XnXy PrriormaiUc  HUIIULUFMIIAJg rFraem IVIULFtL
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OUTCOMES
DESCRIPTION                    |!UNIT! |     TARGET AS AT:           ACTUAL
I   -ISAR  IMTR     ILoANI
Oil Palm nlantinn
_ant_new blocks                                      ha    3,500    5,000 18,000         8,230
I  ii Plant reserve land_ _n_ant unnr_duc__ve nalms  I ha 1 3.000  1 1.500  1 1.250 1     1.374
j.maflhoder sm!h!e !oan                             no.   3~~ 26    3,250    4Rf25 1    485ass
I   nnmun omnllhnlrlar loans                        nIQqnIAgn                -q          -5
ISma oIder development                              I      _I_*  _I         I              *II
I  I Stmnnlv rcrllintcm                                   I   x    I   x        2 x         2 Y
iiU. SUPPjY_fe2rtiiser9                                         I   x    I _      I _
I  ii. SUDDIV toolsx                                             I    x    I   x    I 
iv. Support growers (OPIC extension)_r_                      _                     _       _
I   staff rerruitm.ent                           Ino. 1    29   1   29    1  21    1     21
staff residences                                no.  19         21        18         14
- field offices                                I_no.   __2     _2          2     _       _2
- vehicdes                                       no.    43       43        68         68
- aaricultural eauiDment                              no.     6    1   6    1    9   1      9
I -training                                                x        x         x   T      N
Iv. Supply nets                                      I         x       x _       x    I     Y_ _
IRoad construction and maintenance                  1 m    _         _        __I
I  LCostrctand maintain accesstharvest roads       km     45       450      34          34
[ Ii Improve main road                                km      59       59                   N
|Social infrastructure'
I  i. Constructoffice accommodation for POPGA       Ino.      I         I        I 1         1
|ii. Expand pdmryi  dctnsrie
- double classrooms                             no.    10        10       15          10
- libraries                                         no._           _            _         10
|    -staff residences                                no.     I 0      1 0       9_9
iii. Expand rural health servicesI 
[    - aid post                                     Ino. I    1    1    1   1    4    1      1
IEnvironmental protection
L Protect QABB (DEC)                                       x    I     -  I      -   _    _AusAID__
- staff recruitment  .no.I                                   7    1    -      I_-_I_       na
j    -vehicles                                      Ino.i     7 1       -        -          na
-staff residences                              |no.      4    I         I        |     na
- omce and demonstration tacilities              no.      1 i        -      -          na
H ii.Waste management (HOPL)                               _ .                        _________
I    - upgraae Tactory emuent ueauTm:n                    I   x        x                     T 
- establish landfill for solid waste disposal         __I_x   I    x        x           Y
linstituuonai strengtnuning (OPiC head office)                     I '  '
LI Provide managenal capacity                     I      l      I   .    I         I
tiai -s'- fcruiten wil                             Io      A    I    -    I 10     1      3 
i. Administer project finances                         I        I        I        I
I   loan disbuement                            I SD 27n       I - 27'0 2I.4 ^,  lll 12^,4 mill.
-30-



DESCRIPTION                      [UNIT        TARGET AS AT:        J  ACTUAL
r> _  Itl  & IAUI   I  EU-r  I  I  I
"Instit''onal strieng-th e n i n g(Adaa_                        __      mEXN              __
i. Enhance project preparation capacity                 r1                          T 
-swsvvvszwvwi                   I v   I    v    I   v~~~~~~           ~~     ~ I -   v 
_ _t-ff rar,n 4itrnt                              nI                                             I
iii. Enhance projectevaluation capacity                  _______                      __     _
I -taff rarriitmant                            I_nn       I               __  _ I  _   t  n_I
Institutonal strengthening (OPRA)                                   I _  _
I  i. Survev oil nalm nutritional needs              I     I    x   I I           x    I      Y       I
-vehides                                       |no. |     1   ||~ 
ii. Research direction                               xI          I I  x    I   x           Y      I
- staff recruitment                               no.     -         -                    1
-vehicles                                         no.     1      1    1 _    1    7      1
iii. Develop GIS/Mapping system                             -         x        x           Y    
iv. Publish technical reference manual                                         x r -   -   y   
iConsultancies 
i Civil works supervision (OPID)                  I       |  x   L_   x    I   x    I      Y      I
ii. Review of Price Formula (1)                                       x        x           Y
iii. Future Development of Smaliholder Oil Palm in Oro  _   _     -         __-___x  _   _Y_I
i.Rquest for Two Year Extension of Project Loan-  |       -]                | x 
v. Butterfly conservation citeria (Tom Diwai)            _        j __-__      x           y Y _
vi. GIS/Mapping System                                                x        x           Y
vii. Consultant Adviser                                                        x           y
viii. Achievements and Potential for Development in         x         x         I 
the Smallholder Oil palm Sector                I                                                I
x.xi MIS development (computer programmer) R  o              -   L    -    II              y       I
x. Environmental Impact Study for Completon Report          x         x    |   x    |      Y
I   a Review of Price Formula (2)                    Ix                       l    x    L      Y      I
xii. Preparation of management's Completion Report  f   j    x   I    x         x    I     Y
xiii. Kokoda Highway Survey                       I     I   x    I    x    I    x    I     Y_I
Y = Yes - Achieved. N = Not achieved. P = Partial achievement. x = Included as target. Na = not applicable
-31 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I~~~~~~~,; .4               ^,*-:'.': F-2i''; L~Apasl    .   7etiA allEjte'j, .'. Percii'tage of
; -;~              '$                " mto!    ^>i", -<-,      1sEs mae.1 ;tlma;e,- ~  A; riai-
IA. SH Oil Palm Develonment                            7-70    1      10-16            132
B. ExtensionSenices                                    4.07            4.39            108
C.l Accs --- d                                        :3. ' 10.5~ AC7                   179
ID. Social Infrastructure                         |     1.65           0.73             44
h. Main Roaa improvement                               1 .92           0.05              2
F. Institutional Strengthening                         4.55            1.75             39
G. Environment Protection (AusAID)                     2.45            0.00              0
IH. Technical Assistance                                0.36           0;89            247
I Studies                                              0.20            0.11   |    _    55
Total Baseiine Cost                                   36.25           28.65
Total Project Costs         j    36.25   ±       28.65   |
' Total Financing Required        J    36.25    l      28.65   |
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
* -_..'                                                                  l: ;., -  .. ...... ...*.-  .  * ---. !L..':, 
Expenditur6'C-itaegt   .Tfi C
1. Works                 |    0.00     |    16.40    |    0.0      |      .00        16.40
1.                     2~~~~~~~~I k-Iu  I  k ,. IV I  kvvu  I    kuuu         kq       1
I                  J~~~~~ (0.00.)  1 (i4.70)   1    (0;00)   1   (0U.00)      (;4.70)  j
12. Goods                      0.00     |    1.50    |     3.80    |    0.00     |    5.30
I                        1    (0.00)        (1.40)        (3.70)       (0.00)        (5.10)
13. Services                   0.00          0.00          0.70         0.00          0.70
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.40)       (0.00)        (0.40)
14. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          3.20         10.70        13.90
|  j  (0.00)   _      _(0.00)  J  (1.80)  j    (5.00)   I   (6.80)
I _______________________ I   (0.00)        16.10)        (5.90)   j    (5.00)       (27.00)
a        k :_*r+"o, Dw,mr^D m.An*r Am,i,amhAA*a IAj4ulIfl a*Aa4 =em;n^As Il It mHliron Arw.uh,-lAnt
_  _  _  _   _ _  _  _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ ___ - -_ _ _ _    _ _ _  _ _  I-     --.--8   M |-
1. Works                 I    0.00     i    12.02    T    000     1    0.00     t   12.02   1
nrn                      AA~~II               I
2 G                           (0.00)        (11.46)      (0.00)    L   (0.00)       (11.46)
I er.ces                   (0.50)        (1.76)        (4.40)   j   (000)        (6.66)
13- SerVICeS             I    0.00          0.00          1.00         0.00       1   00
- 32 -



I                         I    (,0.00)   1    (0.00)   1    (1.00)    I   (0.00) 1      (1.00)   1
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           2.12          6.59         8.71
v         I             I             fn/ A  I  nvnv( I    "As_}
Total                        0.01.87.58                                 6.59,        28.65
1                         1________________________  UJ.v0J)  1  (.Ii3.22)  (7.32)  1  (0.00)  15(21.04)  1
The total under NBF excludes interest during construction (approximately US$0.5m) and cost incurred on
Special Account currency conversion (US$0.77m).
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office. training. technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component           AApprilsal,Esdmate' ,                            e *PA'e4-i-r
-  Bank  | -~ .Goo. *  CoF. ,} Ba;i    '         CoF;    .-Ba~ k_ __ ..
A    SU Oil Palm 0ev-    A n       0 17      '      A   S        1A    I i m    1 n  145.2  7nr05a  R7 .81
B. Extension Serves      304       101       0 00      3.08  (    1         00     10.    12917| 0.0  |
1.AeXS- -OAS        I   !11.68  1 !.7      n 0.0     a 952  1      !.05  n an0   'R 8!.  1" 62.  A A.
D. Social Infrastructure  1.32     0.33      0.00      0.66      0.07      o.00    50.0   21.2    0.0
E a.4 M A{           I 1pA !.54  0        0.00      n 004     0.01      A        2.6    2.6    0.0 n
gthenin           I         I;  ;I;O;                               ~   5    7.
F. Inst Strengthenlng    3.27      1.29      0.00      0.80      0.95      0.00    24.5   73.6    0.0
G. En.    #-+It..O      !1 A7 07.?          n nn      0 .0      0.00 An   nn       0 .    n.     0 n A
(AusAID)                                                      I
U. T-c'hnfr,I Aq!At-t..".  013     0=04      0.00      089       0.00      0.00    269.7   0.0    0.0 7
I. Studies               0.00      0.20      0.00      0.11      0.00   |  0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
TOT.4                 I 27.00      5.81      3.44   |2.04        4.59      3.02    77.9   79.0 |7 R
Co-financiers represent farmer contributions
- 33-



Annew 3 FEcnnnmIr tncts and nrnofl$
The economic analysis of the project completed in March 1992 estimated an Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) of 12.4 %. The current analysis using a similar approach (with two variations, one
with a negative impact on the ERR and the other one with a nositive imnact) results in an ERR
estimate of 10.7%, not including substantial additional benefits that are not quantified and are
-labor-teA below.
Tne actual project costs and the production volume and value to end-2001 have been used, with
projections of production, returns and costs made subsequently, using the Bank's latest global
commodity price projections as appropriate for unit values (palm oil and fertilizer). The standard
conversion factor of 0.9 is used to convert local costs to border Kina, as at appraisal, with a factor
of 0.70 used to convert labor into an economic price, compared to 0.65 at appraisal. Whereas at
appraisal a 20 vear neriod was used for the economic life of the nroiect the current analysis
assumes a life of 27 years. This is due to the fact that the investment was spread over a much
L'J11or,1 .geL;J%A C11J JperU.o  11 muc  of t%JLh   .JJ' p lm l VeseLL"nLt occed inL Uthe latter L   LL. of 1e  IL.e.ded
project; hence, taking a 20-year time frame would mean that the production from the area planted
in 2001, for example, would only be captured for 12 years of growth (9 years of production).
The current analysis introduced a factor that decreases the ERR estimate compared to appraisal.
The new planting model has the same methodology as that used at appraisal, but the replanting
farm model assumes that in the "without project" situation growers would be able to continue to
harvest some fruit for a firther three years after the twentieth vear. The assumptions are for 11
tons in year 21, 6 tons in year 22 and 4 tons in year 23. The net income from this is entered as a
WviLUULU jJLVJ%,%L UV.Lefi.LL, WvvhicL 1UULO rwJuce   Z  p LVL sLh LmIoUdl asheLIL ' oV LCI pI'UJJcL .AJJLpLL..ed
to appraisal.
As reported in section 4.2, there were 'problems with fertilizer distribution and use in the early
years of the project, which had an effect on the yields recorded in the initial years of production
(1998 to 2000). This is registered in the analysis by using the actual production figures up to
end-2001. However, with the improved fertilizer application in the later years of the project,
current vields have markedly improved; many growers are now entering prnduction in the third
year of palm growth. The appraisal model was based on production in the third year of growth at
<~~~~~~~~ +_          B __s --  >+A _A- I -  A-A 1  _ )_A   - 1 <+ A t;_+sNao-M_Aj+n
J UJllIL)ILWl l4UIlU...  LLiN L*U  17  WILD OAJLU USV1%,JLULUJL  &  1 %JLLW  L  a.L LU  WJ1Iu1J *L At, WaV acauI LL..1 JUIl"
palms would be destroyed for replanting. Despite some growers entering production in the third
year, due to the actual performance in the early years of tne project, tne completion analysis has
assumed (for the concerned blocks that come into production subsequent to actual production
records) that production commences only in the fourth year, and at a yield of 3.5 tons/ha rather
than 5 tons/ha. Yields are assumed to rise to 20 tons by year 8 and decline after the seventeenth
year to 17 tons/ha in the twentieth year. OPIC is aware of the past ferdlizer use problems and is
givin nrioritv to extension of the financial benefits of ferfili7er uiqe and will continue to do so-
These yields, which are about 70% of the yields that OPRA estimates would be realizable with
gvuJ managernLet Lil JIV, JIJ vLU UN, a.U VVU.Lv
For access roads, as reported in section 4.3, the current analysis included only 75% of the costs of
construction and maintenance.
- 34 -



As close to 200 km of the road infrastructure required for fruit collection access in the established
oil palm areas was not completed at Ioan closure (end-200 1), tius invesimeni nas been included in
the period up to mid-2004. The completion of this program is being enabled through use of the
PNG Incentive Fund (an AusAID grant program) which was approved on the basis of a
comprehensive proposal prepared by OPIC. The delay in completing road access has also meant
that some of the planted areas are coming, or will come, into production before access is
completed. This has been allowed for in the analysis by delaving the commencement of
production on the affected areas until the roads were completed, or will be completed in the
ror social infrastructure, apprai  assumed mal 50%/o o these costs woula be allocatea TO the
project, as has this analysis. The same 25% of OPIC overhead costs are attributed to the project;
OPIC is responsible for five smallholder schemes in PNG.
The main reasons for the variation between the appraisal and the current estimates are (a) the
loneer neriod of overheads associated with the extended nroiect: (bh the uLse of a "wxithout
project" scenario in the replanting oil palm model and the lower yields in the initial years of
pA.vduction (c) Ak. deA.sin .-tgo bok +1-t A.A not U- ;e   A s ssi +;__ VO; +UA f%-+
~~ \~~%'J "LL1 %AWAAJ .0 LLL ALCLU V %10&L1r,%F L'JA U1"~. LUlal .L ULJL "%tIa v v ACLU LU k.1L"% LVLU U LL%1~ III OI
appreciable harvest; and (d) a higher provision for access road maintenance.
- 35 -



rtR{*WRloF 1-- X z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a c.c.S!1  crt 8 
8                          j3  j4sSIS:-UXIaIt ijl ad ig } S | ! ,i, ' E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C2  Rq
lsl E w. tv,,l!t,5iR v , 5.ir t.            R ges1il x CC
ii   sS;sX,  .l,  '; sX _ Ci  10  @/;  St   aw     ggfMI,  If vl.rt  §  wID
.l~~~~~~~C          o-m  $  s !7l8scRDj  i  k n   $4X         [!; Et 
1;z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ _ =   __     ,    ,       _   s__,,,_,,_, __- ,  _--S
-'R'at°'v-1E'l   .  gE, ,,l .rs,,  ,   ''2,W,.qFi'>4!31ls  '',,gLi-:s' sEi'~~~~~~~~~~~to
---- - -- -                                                         es 1   ;4i  i  :  - -
ig t30j|s }glsj!   ; e, t w          st,       .     4 t     ,ffi, t;;  !g
-   g    r            {   iD! >                 -       ,lgt1WS,,,>t !,Xe sE X~~~~~r
D li .Se1t1        ll -- ik         a              Ws!s, .,A1.,19 irXiq?j:'ID
IR, k" 1t,;-          c vi-            s                E;tgC
,Fs - ~~~~~~~~ ew   ler irisSi   .. '       . -      l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WIO IOL,  4 "s«Al c 
- 1| wit1>- sr aS   iW   0q=         lr         4    S   sX    E   ol c"  .
._  _  __t  ._  __  _.__  ;.._ ....................... ._ Z,--i.---q !'s D,AM!.
xt^   ;§  -  la  f;2r.';  ;   '   C   sa;S   ;  ~  -  ~   ~  ^&2,fgie>i!8-ts  'St'  '' P'L
ZCK  . .IAm":f!' r JaiNsi                                     i4lt.i>tj  B  - 
_,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io .E0 Tcro fen,,f §__ _
js2ptl NOY3EBSBSR i eB g_ __,-, 



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
gStge otrroject-Ccle                No. of Persons and Specuaty         Perlomance RKtig.- '
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  1mplementtioIDevi  ntet, |
Month/Year  _       _      Specialtyq  ,_J ,_____ective-'_
Identiflcation/Preparation
09/87                     5   AGEC, PA. S, TC, LAW
12187                     2   TC,FA
03/88                     2   TC, FA
7/88                      7   AGEC,AGRO,E,CE,AGSO, PE,
03/89                     4   TC,FA,PE,FA
10/89                     5 |CS,2TC,2 PE
Appraisal/Negodlation
03/90          I          4   TC,CS,ENV,FA
06/90                     2   TC,ENT
03/9 1                    2   TC,FA
06/91                     2   AGEC,TC
02/92                     3   TC,ENV,FA
SupervisionIII
04/93                     2   AGEC,TC                         S            S
11/93                     3   AGEC,FA,TC                |
1 n/94                    2   AGRCr FA                  I     S            "SR
|   5/95       |          I | AGEC                                         S
11O/95                    1   A r^DT                          S                  |
11/96                     2AGEC,AGRI                          S           U
1        8v~9/'97                  1   A rI AGIDC                     Sz           S 
3/98                      3 | AGEC,AGRIENV                                 S
11198          |          2 1    DI TAGfTA              I     SS
|   5/99       |         I | AGRI                                         S
6/00            |             AGRI                      |                  S
I       ~~~i/i.)       1I           1 AuROU,AUKiI                      S     I     S      I
5/01                      2   AGRO,AGRI                       S
ICR
12/01                     3    AGRO, AGRI, RDS                S            S
AGRO    Agronomist, AGRI = Agriculturist, AGEC = Agri-Economist, AGSO = Agro-Sociologist, CE =
Civil Enaineer; CS = Credit Specialist EC      =  Economist ENT  =  Entomologist ENV   =
Envirornent/Forestry Conservation, FA = Financial Analyst, LAW = Lawyer, PA = Project Analyst, PE =
Prnre-qincr R_noiner R1S = Ru^,l Tl-vef-1nnme-nt Spn-Aiiliqt Tr =Treep Cnn qnpeidnict S = Snoinlnocit
*   June 22, 1990 *fmlo ayipCaS ^gof fk. nSlo 0!               fWaJ*ai mv J to kpCIasa
*   03/89 and 10/89 were pre-appraisal missions
-  2 n I  AK flIf --  l 0)   +_-
*   VJI1, V06,'1, dU 1JWI 74 W%1V jJ¶.-Jaj.JjJ10C 1UUO.oL%JW
- 37 -



(b) Staff.
Stage of P.ojeC t ycl  !.            .. .,       ....  1 test-Qi m ;. .         I
Identification/Pnparation    |              164         |              221.1         l
I-FF CUDaL'  I eg"uin18 01                                              27'%AC
~~~W        a4%L          Ii 02                      I
Supervision                                 86                         372.1
l ICR                          l                7                         A I           I
Total                                      340                         882.2
According to the Banks accounting system, consultant weeks (excluding FAO/CP) are recorded only until
Fiscal year 1999. Input values include all expenses, including consultancy staffweeks (fees).
-38-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
O Macro policies                        O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Secto Fol c..                                OF SU, O. , -'  , N " O NA
L"  omL&ur I- USLLica                   %,j 1 W  oJL  k-.1 1i  '-,J IV  \-j IVA
Ol Physical                             O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
-, .i                                  iv"  /C\  -   r\  ..  a-\- 'f  
O FLMflgW5                              \j \H  j a U  M  O.IV WN IA
O Institutional Development             0 H   O SU *M    0 N   0 NA
O Environmenial            ~j                 W aU O,J M  O.j NV Ou NVA
'JULiUS
Ol Poverty Reduction              O H  *SUOM       O N  O NA
L wi  rgIIAt                     \-..  Ii  W  UV/ \_..  lIn  k¼.. IV  ¼.  IVA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
O Pri-vate sector de--veomn             O H   0 SU O M' ONOhA
sector                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~W IVA%
U Public sector management              0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
w i'Let (F5 It.YU apt:ciJy/             \,j 1O H j OSU O.. iVI %.) IV O .N IVA
- 39



ZIIUAnne  V. Ratng1 A fk J aJUnL dU E3UI I Wer A VA Kul Loance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
El Lending                                          OHSOS Ou OQHU
OI Supervision                                      O   HS * S  OU     O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
Ol Preparation                                      OHS OS       O   u    HU
(7.6vernmont imnlpemtntatinn nerfnrmanc-e           n HS a S     n U   n HU
El Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       O U   O HU
nl n) e,r!                                          O      HS    n S   O nU HUf
-40 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
A.    Bank Documents
1. Au%11LLLJ%1"LLLI 1L.LOOJLvu 1JJ1/  I LMV slsio  PpLorI.  o  GIIcU IJL3fliULLV1UX1 an  VJ%,L Uby
FAO/WB Cooperative Program December 21,1987
2. Preparation Mission Report: Oro Province Nucleus Estate and Smaihiolder Project by
FAO/WB Cooperative Program November 8.1988
3. Staff Appraisal Report: Oro Smallholder Oil Palm Project May 7, 1992
Supervision Reports:
I First Sunervi.ion Miqsinn Rennrt ('4/20/93 tn 5/4/93)
2. Second Supervision Mission Report (11/1/93 to 11/12/93)
3. 1:r S                 Rep    (1P7fl^4A -   Ito 1 l0/1/A9
J. I I JJIU hJUp- LVLO1UU 1VU001ULL E1XViPVL tk1VI 117-t LU IVJI I 117-t)
4. Fourth Supervision Mission Report (4/29/95 to 5/15/95)
5. Fifth Supervision Mission Report (11/7/95 to l/I0/95)
6. Sixth Supervision Mission Report (6/2/96 to 6/15/96)
7. Seventh Supervision and MTR Mission Report (10/27/96 to 11/8/96)
8. Eighth Supervision Mission Report (8/1/97 to 8/10/97)
9. Ninth Supervision Mission Report (2/10/98 to 2/21/98)
1 0  Tenth SLpnervision Mission Renprt (ll/10/9R t 11/22/9Q8)
11. Eleventh Supervision Mission Report (5/13/99 to 5/20/99)
IL. I WeLILU OUperVL0VLDi IVI:^sUIL PZpoULL (10/I I 10177 LU 10/JV/97)
13. Thirteenth Supervision Mission Report (5/28/2000 to 6/8/2000)
14. Fourteenth Supervision Mission Report (1 1i19i2000 to 12/30/2000)
15. Fifteenth Supervision Mission Report (5/6/2001 to 5/29/2001)
16. Sixteenth Supervision and ICR Mission Report (11/25/2001 to 12/8/2001)
B.    Project Reports
I. ShtAv of the Sniallholdter Oil Palm  Setor: Acdhipvements and Potential for Fnurther
Development May 2001
2. eV-VIVW of OJUll JL P 'I.U LJLres L D;BUII% rIl.Ieirg ErUL.ILU4 J'N4VC1UUV1 2VVI
3. Improving Productivity of the Smallholder Oil Palm Sector in PNG: A Socio-economic study
of the Hoskins and Popondetta Schemes November 2001
4. Environment Impact Review of Current Project (Oro) and Recommendations for
Considerations in any Future Development September 2001
- 41 -



Bismrck                             148000 E                     1443015'E  PAPUA NEW GUINEA   14030' E
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- se,.                 7/ORO SMALLIHOLIDER OIL I'ALs - 
I PAPUA             5                                                             DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NEW  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~SMALLIHICLDER OIL PALM BLOCKS:
a                                           *                                             1 PINEA  .J\  iOTENTIAL NEW AREAS
Sea  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~HOPF-L NUCLEUS EStATES:
Poe' ~~~~830SAurc                                                            AAMR ESTATE          B0630'S-
__AUSIRALIA ___V                                                                       OFFICES AND FACTORIES
Mo~~~~sb~~~~ ~~~~~~~Deuni,
MAIN ROAD
/L                pj So                                  - -  ) * _  , ECTION  -TO.BE UFGRADED
1. i -ANTERNA TIONALBOUNDARIES
G  /  //  t  )                   SOlsi                          0     5    10   15   20
O~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                                  L- 1                r 
0n~~~~    KILOMETERS
r'*~~aore
SEA
8045'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- B045'S  4                                                     'J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,4DETT,A 
ESI.ATE                                                    I EENE
~~~~~  0                                          MT.                           /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'00                                          MT. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LoMINIGTONt ..
1470458]             (4/4OE                                                              1 4E30E









IMAGING
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~vJ
I   e   r No.:aa I43
Type:        lCR
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



