-AV/  3 ti7 -§ 4-4 i-4-r
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICRO1FICHE COPY
Report No.  8955-PNG Type: (SAR)
BOYER, PHI/ X76229 / F-3053/ ASTAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ORO SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 7, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
7 his document has a resticted distibuoon and may be used by ripients only in the performance of
their ofciji duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 1992)
Currency Unit  =   Kina (K)
Kl         -   US$1.0493
US$1           K 0.953
FISCAL YEAR
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)    -   2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)    -   2,205 pounds
1 kilometer (km)    -  0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)     3   2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
ABPNG     - Agriculture Bank of Papua New Guinea
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
CDC       - Commonwealth Development Corporation
DAL       - Department of Agriculture and Livestock
DEC       - Department of Environment and Conservation
DFP       - Department of Finance and Planning
DOW       - Department of Works
FAO/CP    - Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FFB       - Fresh Fruit Bunches
GOPNG     - Government of Papua New Guinea
HOPPL     - Higaturu Oil Palms Pty Ltd
HTPL      - Higaturu Transport Pty Ltd
NES       - Nucleus Estate and Smallholder
NFCAP     - National Forestry Conservation Action Plan
OIDA      - Office of International Development Assistance
OPIC      - Oil Palm Industry Corporation
PCR       - Project Completion Report
PNG       - Papua New Guinea
PNGOPRA   - Papua New Guinea Oil Palm Research Association
PPAR      - Project Performance Audit Report
SA        - Subsidiary Agreement
SOE       - Statement of Expenditure
STABEX    - Export Earnings Stabilization System



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
rAPUA NEW GUIIEA
ORO SNALLEOLDER-OIL PAIN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pagg Number
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     (ii)
T.   AGICULTURE IN PAFUA NEW GUINEA . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
The Agriculture Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2
Tree Crop Sub-sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
Institutions    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  5
Government Strategy for Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . .       6
II.  LESSONS OF BANK EXPERIENCE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        8
World-Wide Experience in Tree Crops . . . . . . . . . . . .       8
Papua Now Guinea Experience ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  9
Lessons Learnt  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      10
Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvment  . . . . . . . .      10
Project Design...  .  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  11
-II.  THE PROJECT AREAS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      12
Climate ......  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .   .  12
Topography and Soils  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      12
vegetation  .....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  12
Current Land Use and Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
Infrastructure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
Population  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
-v.   kI.BJK.14
IV.  THE  PROJECT  ........................1
Project Identification and Preparation  . . . . . . . . . .      14
Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      14
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      14
Smallbolder Development ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
Main Road Improvement .....  .  .     .I. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  17
Ewvironmental Protection  . . . . . .                            1 . . . . . . . . . .  i8
Institutional Strengthening .19
Technical Assistance .20
Studies .20
V. PROJECT COSTS AND F1NCING .21
Project Costs .21
Financing ....                                                   22
Smallholder Credit Arrangement. . . . . . . . . . . . . .        23
Funds Flow  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      24
Procurement .25
Disbursem_nts .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  26
Special Account .....  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
Accounts and Audits .....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  28
I/ This report is based on the findings of a re-appraisal mission to Papua New
Guinea in February 1992. The mission consisted of Messrs. Ph. Boyer (Tree
Crop Specialist), 0. Tumusiime (Financial Analyst) and C. Darby (Consultant
Environmental Specialist). Peer reviewers were: Mss. C. Jarvis (credit), J.
Mott (environment) and Mr. D. Meadows (tree crops). Mrs. M. Haug, Director,
EA3, and Mr. A. Cole, Division Chief, EA3AG, have endorsed the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



v ii -
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MSNACYN  . . . . . . . . . . .        28
Project Management  ....  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   * .....   .  28
Oil Palm Industry Corporation (OPIC)  . . . . . . . . . . .     29
The Department of Agriculture and Livestock . . . . . . . .     30
The Department of Environment and Conservation  . . . . . .     30
Higaturu Transport Pty Ltd (HTPL) . . . . . . . . . . . . .     30
Higaturu Oil Palms Pty Ltd (HOPPL)  . . . . . . . . . . . .     31
Other Implementing Agencies ....  .    .    ......  .  .  .    .  32
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . .     33
Project Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     33
Status of Implementation  ....  .  .     ......  .  .  .  .   .  33
VII.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . . .     34
Yields and Production     . .     . . . . . . . . . . . .       34
Marketing and Pricing of Smallholder Produce  . . . . . . .     34
Benefits and Poverty Alleviation Impact . . . . . . . . . .     34
Economic Analysis ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. ......  .   .  35
Sensitivity Analysis  .... .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  36
Cost Recovery ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .  .   .  36
Social and Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     36
Project Risks .....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .  .   .  37
VIII. AREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMATION.          .    . . . . . . .  38
Assurances  .....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .    ........  .  .   .  38
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     39
Conditions of Disbursement  ....  .. .     .      .             39
Recommendation  . . . . . . . . . . .        .40
TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
1.1  1991 PNG Tree Croo Data . . . . . . . . . . . ... . .       3
4.1   Oil Palm Planting Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     15
5.1  Project Cost Summary  . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . .      21
5.2 Financing Plan .22
5.3 Procurement Arrangements .25
1.  -Project Cost Tables          .. .41
2. Financing Plan              ...47
3.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements   . . .49
4.   Organization Chart             ...                         50
5.   Bank Supervision Mission Schedule . . . . . . . . . .      51
6.   Project Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . .      52
7.   Oil Palm Farm Gate Price Structure  . . . . . . . . .      53
8.   Smallholder 2 ha Farm Model . . . . . . . . . . . . .      54
9.   Smallholder Cash Flow Projections . . . . . . . . . .      55
10.   Economic Analysis ..                 .  . . . . .         56
11.   HTPL Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     58
12.   HOPPL Financial Statements. . . .  . . . . . . . . .      61
13.  Butterfly Conservation Program  . . . . . . . . . . .      64
14.  Supporting Documents Available in Project File  . . .      69
NHOW=C H Queen Alexandra Birdwing Butterfly  . . . . . . . . .        71
MhZ    IBRD No. 22171R ................. ... .   72



- iii -
PAPUA m   GUINEA
ORO QMUOL        ILi PAL  DUWRONT PROJECT
Lopn and Project Summary
agrrOQWe       : The Independent State of Papua New Guinea
A5foJLaries  : The Oil Palm Industry Corporation (OPIC), and the Papua New
Guinea Oil Palm Research Association (PNGOPRA)
Amount         : US$27 million equivalent
Terms          : Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable rate.
Terms to
Beneficiaries  : US$6.0 million would be passed to OPIC and US$0.6 million to
PNGOPRA on a grant basis.
DeseurLIton    : The six-year project aims at increasing agricultural
production and exports, providing employment opportunities
and generating incomes for poor farmers in Oro Province.
The project would develop about 6,500 ha of smallholder oil
palm for about 3,250 poor families, with associated road and
social infrastructure construction, and provide for the
protection of the endangered, world's largest butterfly
species. The project would also provide for the
institutional strengthening of the Department of Agriculture
and Livestock, the Oil Palm Industry Corporation and the
Papua New Guinea Oil Palm Research Association.
BesaefLks
and Rlsks      : The proposed project would benefit about 3,250 poor
smallholder families. Economic benefits would be derived
from increased agricultural production and exports.
Environmental benefits are expected under the project from
the protection of the world's most notable endangered
species of butterfly and its habitat, upgrading effluent
treatment, and rehabilitating degraded grasslands. ERR is
estimated to be 12 percent on 76% of total project costs.
The proposed project has been designed to build on existing
infrastructure and services. No special agricultural risks
have been identified and effluent treatment would use an
established technology and be regularly monitored by the
Department of Environment and Conservation.  The primary
financial risk is that declines in international commodity
prices below projected levels would result in poor financial



- iv -
returns to smallholders, inhibiting harvesting, and to the
estate company, jeopardizing its ability to process the crop
profitably. Related to the financial risk, is possible
slippage of offsetting macro policy implementation. Such
slippage is a significant possibility as regards wage policy
and competitiveness, especially during the coming years of
rapid development of the country's mineral wealth. However,
PNG has assembled a solid track record of macroeconomic
stability since Independence, reinforced by its adjustment
performance since 1989. Other potential risks would be: (i)
poor field maintenance, low yields and even abandonment by
the nontraditional oil palm farmers. This risk would be
minimized by selection of village farmers, technical
assistance and supervision by oil palm extension staff
supported under the project; (ii) farmers would continue to
practice shifting cultivation on forest land identified as
important for the conservation of the endangered butterfly
and its ecosystem. This would be addressed by promoting the
establishment of permanent conservation areas that would
remain under traditional land ownership, but be subject to a
ban on forest clearance; (iii) project implementation may
suffer from political difficulties and civil unrest, which
affect various regions of the country from time to time.
This risk would be alleviated by having provincial
authorities represented on the project's Provincial
Coordination Committee, and by the inclusion of a
significant social infrastructure component, designed after
consultations with farmers during project preparation.



Estimated Costs:A/             Local     Foreien   Ita
----.-US$ million-------
Smallholder Development
Oil Palm Development          4.7       1.4        6.1
Extension Services            2.1       1.2        3.3
Agricultural Roads            2.7       7.5       10.2
Social Infrastructure         0.7       0.7        1.4
Subtotal                   10.2      10.8       21.0
Main Road Improvement           0.5        1.0       1.5
Institutional Strengthening    2.6        1.1        3.7
Environamental Protection       1.2       0.8        2.0
Technical Assistance            0.0       0.3        0.3
Studies                         0.0       0.2        0.2
Total Bass Costs             14.5     1A.2        28.7
Physical Contingencies          0.5       1.0        1.5
Price Contingencies             3.8       2.3        6.1
Total troject Costs          18.8      ,17.       36.3
Interest During                 0.0       0.5        0.5
Construction
Total Pinancing Required    ILi         l.Q
LmneIng       :
IBRD                         10.4      16.6       27.0
Farmers                       3.4       0.0        3.4
Govt. of PNG                  5.0       1.4        6.4
Total                        18.
Estimated Dishursements:
BankF        122k   199       1995    1996    1222   1998   1929   2000
Annual         0.3      3.2      5.4      5.1     5.6    4.5    2.5    0.4
Cumulative     0.3      3.5      8.9    14.0    19.6   24.1   26.6   27.0
Economic Rate of Retun$:       12% on 76% of total project costs
MbR:                           IBRD No. 22171R
A/ including taxes and duties estimated at US$l.l million equivalent



PAPUA NEW GUINE&
ORO SM =IlLE  OIL PAT DEELOMENT PRECT
1. AGRICULTURE IN PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Backgroud
1.1       With a land area of 462,000 kmi2, and a population of 3.5 million,
Papua New Guinea (PNG) is the largest of the Pacific Island economies. It is
endowed in minerals, oil and gas, has high quality agricultural land,
extensive tropical forests, and a coastline abundant with marine resources.
Its agro-ecological diversity supports the production of a wide range of
tropical, semi-tropical and temperate crops.
1.2       PNG however faces quite extraordinary challenges for balanced
economic development. The topography is rugged, arable lands are scattered
widely, communications are difficult, and the population is generally quite
widely dispersed. Virtually all lands are vested in clans under complex
customary land tenure systems that impede modernization and commercial
development, particularly in rural areas. The rural communities suffer from
institutions that lack depth, poor infrastructure, and health problems; and
lag well behind most Asian lower and middle income countries in respect of the
key social indicators. Education levels are particularly low and skilled
workers scarce. Women make a substantial contribution to the rural economy,
but their social and economic conditions are, in general, highly
unsatisfactory.
1.3       The PNG economy has undergone some severe shocks and changes during
recent years, both from internal and external sources. Following an extended
period of slow growth during the early 1980s, the economy experienced marked
recovery during 1985-88 due to the development and exploitation of mineral
resources as well as large increases in the prices of its major agricultural
exports. However, in 1989, unrest in the North Solomons Province led to the
closure of the Bougainville copper mine, which had contributed about 10
percent of GDP and 35 percent of export earnings. The isolation of the island
further impacted on PNG's non-mineral exports, as the province produced 40
percent of PNG's cocoa and coconuts. Worse still was the concurrent drop in
all major export crop prices. The non-mineral terms of trade declined by 18
percent in 1989, and by 23 percent in 1990. As a result of all these factors,
GDP shrank by 1.4 percent in 1989 and 3.7 percent in 1990.
1.4       Supported by a sound macro-economic management response, economic
recovery from the Bougainville crisis is well underway, led by soaring
expansion of the mining sector. The overall GDP growth rate in 1991 is
expected to be around 9 percent with mining, construction and utilities
enjoying the highest growth rates of 64 and 19 percent respectively. However,
after experiencing many years of slow growth and a decline in output in 1990,
the agriculture sector remains stagnant, with sector value added increasing by
only about 1 percent in 1991, in the face of declining commodity prices,
adverse weather and disruptions stemming from the situation in Bougainville,
to the production of coconuts and cocoa.



-2-
The 4riculture Sector
1.5       Agriculture accounted for about 27 percent of GDP in 1991, 71
percent of non-mineral exports, and 13 percent of total exports. Much of
PNG's land area of 46 million hectares is not suitable for cultivation because
of excessive slope, altitude, or drainage problems. Nevertheless, with only
half of the suitable 14 million ha (30 percent) currently used for
agriculture, there is considerable scope for expansion of the production area.
Production is dominated by smallholders who farm in a mixed subsistence/cash
crop system. Smallholders constitute 95 percent of the agricultural
population and account for virtually all the domestically produced food, which
adequately meets the needs of the majority of tt'e population. However,
according to some recent studies, nutritional stress is emerging in the more
remote areas. There is also some evidence that land is coming under
increasing pressure from a growing population, particularly in the more
densely populated areas, thereby raising concerns about the long term
sustainability of the traditional food production system.
1.6       Recent trends in the sector give cause for great concern.  During
the 1980s, the sector grew by less than 2 percent per annum, below the
population growth rate. Since 1989, private sector agricultural investment
has been insufficient even to cover depreciation of the capital stock.
Maintenance and replanting in smallholder tree crops have ground to a halt,
and plantations have shed nearly 20 percent of their labor supply. With the
pressure on government expenditures generally, allocations for agriculture in
the five year Public Investment Programme were cut by about 32 percent in
1991, compared to the plan prepared a year earlier.
1.7       Nearly 85 percent of the population, encompassing the poorest
segment of society, depends on agriculture for their livelihood. There is
limited potential for employment expansion in the mining sector because of its
capital intensive nature, and thus agriculture's importance in providing
employment and income to the bulk of the population will remain undiminished
well into the next century. Continued slow growth in agriculture would
seriously impact on the welfare and living standards of the vast majority of
the population. Effective policy action is required to revitalize the
agriculture sector so that it is able to provide broad-based income and
employment, and a basis for sustained development over the long term.
1.8       The single most important cause of agriculture's poor performance
in the 1980s was the sharp decline in world market prices for tree crop
commodities. In real terms, palm oil prices in 1991 were about 52 percent of
1984-86 average world prices, coffee 38 percent, cocoa 36 percent, and copra
33 percent. The impact of drastically reduced prices was only partly offset
by domestic policy actions, and therefore PNG's export crops have suffered
continuous erosion of their international competitiveness. Increasing yields
and reducing costs will help achieve competitiveness and incentives to a
degree. However, changes in parts of the macro-economic policy framework will
be essential for achieving competitiveness on a sustained basis. The framing
of such measures to increase output prices, and to reduce input costs -
particularly wage costs - will be the cornerstone of a successful package of



measures to redress the lack of competitiveness and ensure sustained
development.
Tree  roM   Sub-sector: recent trends and ky issues
1.9       Approximstel; 500,000 hectares in PNG, or 3.5 percent of the total
cultivable land, are planted to tree crops, mainly coconut (52 percent), cocoa
(25 percent), oil palm (11 percent) and coffee (9 percent). In 1991, tree
crop exports accounted for virtually all agricultural exports, and 13 percent
of total export receipts of US$1,360 million. The main commodities are
summarized in Table 1.1. Smallholders produce 65 percent of cocoa, 75 percent
of coffee, 65 percent of copra and 45 percent of oil palm. All remaining
production is from a small commercial sector, which plays an important role in
providing employment and is a reliable source of modern technology. Except
for oil palm, production of all these crops has gone down in recent times.
Quality and yields per hectare of coffee and cocoa have declined, while
smallholder productivity of oil palm is stagnating. Copra production has
stopped in many areas due to low prices and costly domestic transportation.
The decline of the tree crop sub-sector is adversely affecting the life of a
vast number of people because it is their major source of cash income.
=Tab]& 1-:   1991 PNG TREE CROP DATA
Total Area    Volume     Smallholder   Estates   Value
Crop         (ha)     ('000 tons)       (%)b/       (%)b/    US$m      t
Coffee         47,000        50.0           75          25      84.8    45.3
Palm Oil and
kernels       58,000       165.0           45          55      40.3    21.5
Cocoa         128,000        34.0           65          35      34.2    18.2
Coconut
products a/  263,000        66.0           65          35      17.8     9.5
Tea             2,800         5.8            -         100       8.3     4.4
Rubber         18,000         2.4           40          60       2.0      1.1
-         -
Total                                                     187.4   100.0
a/ Excludes copra cake
b/ Average 1985-90
Source: Data provided by PNG authorities and staff estimates



-4-
1.10      PNG is generally a high cost producer of its agricultural export
products. For example, the cost of producing one ton of coffee in PUG is
several times the cost in Indonesia or Philippines. However for cocoa, PING
costs are in line with those in Brazil and Malaysia, somewhat higher than in
Cameroon and C8te d'Ivoire, while substantially higber than in Indonesia and
Ghana. Cost of production of palm products are generally comparable to
Malaysian costs, although substantially hlgher than in Indonesia. PNG's costs
of production are adversely affected by high labor costs, high estate
management costs, and low smallbolder productivity. Cost levels also reflect
the effect of topography and location (scattered production areas with
difficult terrain), the small domestic market, long distances to export
destinations for the major export crops, and the need for employment of
foreign technical experts.
1.11      Smallholder yields for tree crops are well below those attained on
estates, and generally below smallholder yields in other Asian countries, and
there has been a tendency for both the quantity and quality of sallholder
production to fall. The technical potential exists to boost smallholder
productivity through the application of known techniques, already proven by
research. For example, smallholder coffee production could be increased
substantially from a combination of quite minor improvements to management.
However, this would require a marked improvement in extension and other
support services to disseminate knowledge to smallholders, and sufficient
incentives - in the form of higher prices and lower labor costs - to make it
worth their while to adopt such practices.
1.12      Palm oil products are now the second most important agricultural
export. Introduced only twenty years ago, oil palm cultivation grew rapidly,
under PNG's very favorable ecological conditions. Estate yields are among the
highest in the world, averaging around 23 tons of fresh fruit bunches per
hectare. In 1991, ING's palm oil and kernels exports were worth US$40
million. PIG crude palm oil is of excellent quality and sells at a small
premium. There are five major nucleus estate and smallholder (NES) oil palm
schemes in production, covering about 58,000 ha: two in West New Britain, one
in Oro Province (Popondetta), one in Milne Bay Province, and one in New
Ireland. About 45 percent of the total NES project areas are cultivated by
smallholders.
1.13      Price declines since the mid-1980s have seriously eroded the
profitability of PlGNs oil palm industry. Oil palm estate companies, which
process the smallholder crop, are currently facing financial difficulties due
to the low world market prices, and have started implementing cost reduction
measures. In some areas, they are also in effect receiving temporary
financial assistance from GOPNG via the commodity price stabilization schemes,
to ensure that palm oil factories continue to operate and process smallholder
crop, while adjustments are made in cocts and the incentive structure.
1.14     Given the depressed long term palm oil price forecasts, it is
imperative that measures are taken to improv smallholder yields, as well as
to reduce production, processing and marketing costs so that the industry
remains viable. For smallholders, although yields are lower than those of



- 5 -
estates, in many areas of PNG such as the Oro Province, oil palm offers much
higher income and returns to labor than any other major cash crop. There is
also potential for considerable smallholder yield increases. Nearly 55
percent of the smallholders now produce at 50 percent of yield potential;
nearly half of these produce at less then 35 percent of potential.
Inatitutim
1.15      D"rirtment of Agrioulture and Livestocg (DAL). DAL has the overall
responsibility for planning, coordinating and implementing agricultural
development throughout the country. However primary responsibility for
providing support services for coffee, cocoa and coconuts, and oil palm
development will in future be placed with industry corporations. Tree cr^-!s
and related issues are handled by separate DAL divisions: Investment, Policy
and Planning, Research, Protection, and Education and Training. The Export
Crops Branch, under the Investment Division, is responsible for the
development of rubber and other minor tree crops such as cashew nuts and
spices, while the Project Preparation Branch, under the Policy and Planning
Division, is responsible for the preparation of all tree crop projects.
1.16      Extension.  Since 1977, responsibility for agricultural extension
has been mainly with the Provincial Departments of Primary Industries, under
DAL's guidance. DAL retained extension responsibility for major investment
projects, and in particular oil palm projects. In 1987, GOPNG established the
Coffee Development Agency to implement extension activities aimed at
offsetting the effect of coffee leaf rust and increasing productivity.
1.17      For oil palm, extension will be undertaken by the Oil Palm Industry
Corporation (OPIC), which should be fully operational by mid-1992. OPIC has
been initially set up as a statutory corporation. Its structure consists of a
central board and five local planning committees, one for eack. ongoing oil
palm smallholder scheme. Project management and control will take place in
each area under the direct control of a field project manager appointed by the
central board. OPIC's main objective will be to ensure increases in
smallholder oil palm production and productivity throughout PNG, through
expanding areas planted, increasing smallholder yields and maintaining high
fruit quality. For new smallbolder oil palm development, project preparation
and the finalization of funding arrangements (mainly through the national
budget in present circumstances) will remain under DAL's responsibility, while
OPIC will be responsible for project implementation.
1.18       ese=arh.  Autonomous research institutes, including the Coffee
Research Institute at Aiyura, Eastern Highlands, the PNG Cocoa and Coconut
Research Institute at Keravat, East New Britain, founded in 1986, and the
Papua New Guinea Oil Palm Research Association at Dami, West New Britain,
established in 1980, are responsible for research on the country's four major
tree crops (coffee, oil palm, cocoa, and coconut). The research institutes
are funded by the industries concerned and by grants from GOPNG. Through its
representation on the institutes' boards and research advisory committees, DAL
ensures that research objectives and programs are consistent with GOPNG
development policies and smallholder lnterests. The tree crop research



- 6 -
programs concentrate on variety testing, breeding of disease resistant and
higher yielding varieties, spacing and farm management trials. Research on
minor cash crops and food crops is carried out on GOPNG research stations set
up by DAL.
1.19      Agricultural Credit.  Lending for agriculture, fisheries and
forestry activities accounts for about 16 percent of total lending by banks in
PNG. The Agriculture Bank of Papua New Guinea (ABPNG), a wholly GOPNG-owned
development finance institution, Is the largest lender to small farmers in
PNG, although it accounts for only about 17 percent of all agricultural
credit. While prices for palm oil were high, ABPNG was able to successfully
lend long-term to oil palm smallholders, with recovery being assured through
the sole marketing outlet in each area, the nucleus estate company. ABPNG
does not accept deposits, depends on GOPNG for its reso:rces and has operated
at a loss for several years. It suffers from a large portfolio of low quality
assets. Loans made by commercial banks in the agriculture sector are largely
for financing of agricultural exports. Commercial bank lending to agriculture
is predominantly short-term with an average maturity of up to 12 months.
Government Stratege for Aericulture
1.20      Historically, overall Government strategy has been to continually
expand the production of the major export tree crops, particularly oil palm.
This is reflected in the fact that the largest share of public investment
funds for agriculture is allocated to tree crops and the bulk of the tree crop
allocations are for oil palm. Stabilization of prices has been a key element
in GOPNG's tree crop development strategy, and towards that end, GOPNG has
implemented well run price stabilization programs. GOPNG has also promoted
supporting services - research and extension through government and industry
programs, credit through private sector and government programs, and input
supply by the private sector. More recently, GOPNG has been emphasizing
improvements in food crop production, by encouraging research on farming
systems.
1.21      GOPNG recognizes that restoring profitability to the agriculture
sector is an essential and pressing development priority. An issue currently
under discussion is how best to support agriculture, the major source of
employment for the country's population, in an economic environment
characterized by a non-competitive wage and price structure supported by
revenues from mining and petroleum development.
1.22      GOPNG has initiated several measures aimed at increasing
smallholder productivity, through focussed industry support services. In
1990, under an Asian Development Bank sector adjustment program, GOPNG began
to create autonomous corporations to provide more effective extension services
to the major tree crop industries. The Coffee Industry Corporation and the
Oil Palm Industry Corporation (OPIC) were established in 1991 and early 1992
respectively, as joint ventures between the public and private sectors to
promote industry development. A Cocoa and Coconut Industry Corporation is
also at an advanced stage of preparation.



-7-
1.23      In March 1991, GOPNG established an agriculture credit scheme,
supported by an explicit budget-financed subsidy, to ensure continued
availability of credit to the sector and especially to small farmers. Under
the scheme all new loans for capital investments in produr' lve agricultural
activities, excluding processing and normal working capiti.s financing
requirements, are provided at a rate of 8 percent per annum, which though
below the market interest rate on agricultural loans, is about 3 percent above
the domestic inflation rate.
1.24      However, most of these measures to lower costs and increase
productivity have long gestation periods. In the meantime, to restore
incentives to agricultural production in the short term, GOPNG has: waived
export taxes; granted a moratorium of interest payments on existing
agricultural loans; exempted rural wage payments from minimum wage
requirements; and provided a budget-financed interest subsidy on new
agricultural loans. A STABEX-backed loan has been provided to the well
managed commodity price stabilization funds, to enable them to continue
supporting producer prices. In addition, for oil palm smallholders, prices
paid for fruit under a standard pricing formula, were satisfactorily revised
upwards in 1991 ensuring that the interests of the smallholders and processors
are fairly balanced ln times of low prices.
1.25      Macro-economic management in recent years has responded to the
steep fall in external terms of trade and the drop in export income caused by
the closure of the Bougainville copper mine and isolation of the province.
GOPNG devalued the kina by 10 percent in early 1990 and adopted restrictive
fiscal, monetary and wage policies, together with a range of other measures.
The adjustment program was supported by a Structural Adjustment Loan (No.
3218-PNG). As indicated in the recent Country Economic Report (PNG:
Competitiveness, Growth aud Structural Adjustment; Report No. 10319-PNG, March
31, 1992), PNGea success in adjustment represents a substantial achievement
given the magnitude of the problem. The report considers that with a
continuance of sound macro-economic management, the strong economic recovery
that began-in 1991 should continue in 1992 and 1993 as new mining projects
come on stream.
1.26      But the report also warns that the economy continues to suffer
fundamental structural weaknesses, and that agriculture, the key employment-
generating sector, remains depressed and in danger of further major declines.
International uncompetitiveness, which is pervasive in the PNG economy, is not
a simple phenomenon. The report suggests that a successful strategy to
generate strong sustained economic growth will entail a comprehensive package
of mutually supporting measures, including sufficiently bold initial steps.
The objective of such a strategy should be to stimulate an early supply
response while laying the foundation for a competitive non-mineral economy
that would attract increasing levels of investment and match productivity
increases of competitor countries. Such an approach should emphasize an
aggressive labor absorbing growth strategy. Given the complexity of the
situation, adequate time will be required for a consensus to emerge among the
policy makers on the timing, costs, and benefits of the additional measures to
be taken.



- 8 -
II.  LESSONS OF LANK -EPERIEN
World-Wide &MRerience in Tree Crols
2.1       The Bank has financed some 114 projects mainly In Asia and Africa,
that have directly or indirectly coutributed to the development of tree crops
(mainly rubber, coconuts and oil palm). Of the 114 projects, 63 involved
smallholders, 35 financed nucleus estates together with smallholder out-
growers, and 16 financed large farmers and estates. Project completion
reports (PCRs) or Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) are available for
42 projects, of which 30 have been reviewed for findings which might be
applicable in the design of the proposed project.
2.2       The thirty projects introduced high-yielding varieties, and
developed infrastructure and processing facilities. Twenty-six of the
projects were successfully completed, although initial implementation delays
were encountered, and in some instances projects extended beyond their
originally anticipated closing dates. Yields expected at the time of the
completion reports were in line with or within 20 percent of the yields
anticipated at appraisal. Infrastructure development, though less effectively
completed than planting, was also substantially achieved. Most projects had
revised economic rates of return above 10 percent. This generally favorable
outcome is in line with OED's review of PCRs for 1990. 1990 PCRs for seven of
eight tree crop projects judged them satisfactory and sustainable. The 88
percent satisfactory rate compares with an average of 74 percent for 66 tree
crop projects between 1974 and 1989. Major common lessons drawn from the past
projects which were reviewed relate to institutional arrangements, financing
and cost recovery, and smallholder response.
2.3       Institutional Arrangements and Management. The PCRs/PPARs indicate
that projects with few objectives and those managed by a single institution
have performed best. Smallholder programs have generally not performed as
well as estate projects. For many smallholder programs a number of
specialized agencies have been inmolved to supply inputs, extension, credit
and marketing services, with a resulting demand for coordination. PCRs have
noted that where dependence on other agencies becomes necessary, the ability
of all agencies to deliver items critical to project success, should be
evaluated carefully at appraisal. The PCRs/PPARs also emphasize that quality
of management has been a critical element in ensuring success.
2.4       Financina and Cost Recovery. Three local sources of financing
smallholder tree crop development have been tapped: (a) Government budgets;
(b) cess for tree crop replanting grants; and (c) credit from institutions.
Generally, the practice has been to finance new planting through credit from
Government or banks, or a combination of grant and credit; and replanting
through a cess. In Malaysia, India, Kenya, Panama and elsewhe,e, new planting
costs have been financed on credit. In the case of Malaysia, credit has ben
made available from Government through specialized tree crop development
agencies to encourage land development and rebabilitation. Participants in
the projects have also contributed to a replanting cess. A cess to finance a



- 9 -
grant for rubber planting has been applied in Thailand, Malaysia, and Sri
Lanka. In the Philippines, similar arrangements have not functioned as well.
2.5       In general PCRs/PPARs are unable to indicate credit repayment
performance, as at the time of their preparation, the credit life is at an
early stage. However, an impact evaluation report by the Operations
Evaluation Department shows differences in recovery performance between oil
palm, where central processing facilities are the only purchaser of the highly
perishable smallholder output, and rubber, where private traders compete as
purchasers of output. At the time of the impact evaluation report, some 10
years after the PCR, recovery of oil palm loans was 99 percent of amounts due,
while the recovery rate for rubber was much lower. The general conclusion to
be drawn is that credit schemes for tree crops such as oil palm, where there
is an automatic link to marketing, are likely to result in high recovery
rates. An impact evaluation report for a project in another country drew
attention to the danger of increasing smallholder debt burden for non
production purposes. Loan repayment, which had been very good, fell sharply
when borrowers were encouraged to take out short-term student and fertilizer
loans, whose repayment was given priority over the longer term tree crop
development loans.
2.6       Smallholder Partlci,atio.  Given the long-term nature of tree crop
investments, and the likelihood that smallholders forgo income when they
replant their existing tree crop area or extend it, most projects have
included measures to maintain incomes during the immaturity period. Other
problems have affected smallholder participation. For example, in one
project, land was abandoned as tree ownership was not established under
traditional law, because the project rather than the farmers cleared the land.
Land disputes have occurred in several countries. Inter-cropping food crops
has been prohibited in some projects, while others have had food crop
components during the development phase. Solutions to improve prospects for
more effective farmer participation can be found through consultation with
prospective beneficiaries during project design.
Pauua New Guinea Experience
2.7       The-World Bank Group has supported three oil palm development
projects in PNG: the New Britain Smallholder Development Project in 1969
(Credits 137 and 175-PNG), the Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development
Project in 1976 (Ln. 1333-PNG), and the Nucleus Estate and SmalIholder (Milne
Bay) Project in 1985 (Ln. 2608-PNG). Oil palm was introduced into Papua New
Guinea at Cape Hoskins, New Britain, in 1967 with a nucleus estate company
established as a joint venture between GOPNG and the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (United Kingdom), with the associated IDA-assisted project
supporting smallholder development and construction of roads and harbor
infrastructure. Four other projects on the nucleus estate and smallholder
model, two with Bank support, have followed in Now Britain, New Ireland, Oro
and Kilne Bay provinces. The nucleus estates for the Oro and Milne Bay
projects were implemented by joint ventures between GOPNG and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation: Higaturu Oil Palms Pty. Ltd. in Popondetta, Oro
Province (which is the nucleus estate company providing support to the



- 10 -
proposed project), and Milne Bay Estates Pty. Ltd. Associated smallholder and
infrastructure development received Bank support under the Popondetta
Smallholder project in Oro Province and the NES (Milne Bay) project
respectively. The Milne Bay project also supported the nucleus estate
development.
2.8       An Impact Evaluation Report (No. 3070, 1980) confirmed the findings
of the earlier Project Performance Audit Report (No. 1400, 1976) that the New
Britain project had been successful in achieving its major objectives. The
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 7001, 1987) for the Popondetta project
considered that project successful. The ongoing Milne Bay project has been
successful in its physical oil palm and infrastructure development, but with
the depressed international palm oil prices, the nucleus estate company is
seeking a revision of its financial structure and debts. In all cases it is
notable that the tree crop projects have had a marked development impact on
the regions where they are located.
Lessons Learnt
2.9       Experience from projects world-wide has indicated that oil palm in
a nucleus estate setting is well suited to smallholders, and with the need for
fruit to be marketed through the nucleus estate, provides an ideal opportunity
for credit recovery. Projects with simple institutional arrangements have
generally performed better than those with multiple institutions. The
experience in Papua New Guinea confirms these lessons. PNG smallholders have
demonstrated their competence with the crop, and have received very good
income and returns to labor while prices were high. Until recently credit
recovery has been excellent, and smallholders continue to enjoy better
financial returns than other tree crop farmers during the current time of low
prices.
2.10      Ongoing agricultural sector work, including a review of all Bank-
financed agricultural projects in PNG, provides additional major lessons: (a)
that maintaining an appropriate macro-economic policy environment and
incentives framework will be essential for the sustainable development of tree
crops and other tradeables; (b) that institutional (including land tenure),
infrastructural and human resource constraints are the three most critical
impediments to sector development; and (c) that ensuring entrepreneurial and
commereially oriented management would be fundamental to developing commercial
productlon systems. These points are recognized in the Bank's strategy for
the agriculture sector.
Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvement
2.11      Clearly, agricultural development in PNG faces a complex set of
issues that will require sustained efforts over a long period of time. The
Asian Development Bank has been assisting GOPNG to address some of the
sectoral development issues through a sector adjustment loan and other
interventions. At the request of GOPNG, the Bank is undertaking an
agriculture sector review which will highlight the key issues for future
development of the sector. The following are the current areas of emphasis



- 11 -
for Bank support to PNG in respect of agriculture, and the management of PNG's
natural resources, between which there are inseparable links.
* first, continued support to GOPNG in analysis of the agriculture
sector constraints and formulation of measures to address them.
These will be geared to restoring the competitiveness of
agriculture as the main source of growth in incomes and employment
for the population, the majority of whom are very poor;
* second, specific investments in agriculture to increase output,
particularly of poor farmers, together with investments in areas
related to agriculture. These related areas include actions to
address land management issues, the sustainable use of forest
resources, and natural resource conservation; and
* third, support to GOPNG in creating conditions for long term growth
of the economy through increased commercial sector activity, and
through balanced interventions in all sectors, particularly
education, health, and infrastructure.
2.12      Improvements in land management to identify better property rights
and administer transactions, in response to the pressures of commercial
agriculture and increasing population, are being supported by the Land
Mobilization Project (Loan 3051-PNG). Natural resource management is being
assisted by the Bank, as lead agency, in coordinating the support of a number
of donors for GOPNG's National Forests and Conservation Action Plan.
2.13       The proposed project supports the first and second objectives.  It
provides an immediate opportunity for a productive investment in the
agriculture sector at this difficult time. It has a satisfactory rate of
return, and benefits from infrastructure built under earlier investments. It
would directly generate income and employment for smallholders, most of whom
are poor, and include measures to improve productivity and incentives to
achieve profitability for oil palm in the area. The project would also help
regain the international competitiveness of oil palm, and would support
GOPNG's longer-term measures to increase productivity. In the field of
natural resource conservation, it would assist a specific effort to safeguard
the endangered Queen Alexandra birdwing, the world's largest butterfly. Its
health, education, and conservation extension components would directly
address areas related to women. Given its past involvement with oil palm
development projects in PNG since the mid-1970s, the Bank is well placed to
support GOPNG in the implementation of the proposed project.
Zjet Dail=
2.14      From the experience in PNG, an assessment of the institutional
needs of the sub-sector, and taking into account the effects of the current
recession on agriculture, the following points have been incorporated in the
design of the proposed project: (a) continued strong extension for the new
project participants and the Popondetta mature phase smallholders, to ensure
satisfactory yields are achieved and maintained; (b) provision of credit



- 12 -
accompanied by grant support for the poor fanmer target group; and (c)
strengthening of institutional capacity for sub-sector planning and
management. In addition, recognizing PNG's early stage in the development
cycle, the project supervision plan (Annex 5) provides for regular bank
supervision.
III. THE PROJECT AREAS
3.1       The project would be located in the Popondetta and Kokoda areas of
Oro Province, in the eastern part of mainland PNG, at a latitude between 8 and
9 degrees South. The total land area of Oro Province is about 22,200 km2,
less than 5 percent of the national territory.
climate
3.2       The climate is tropical humid, with an average annual rainfall
ranging between 3,000 and 3,800 mm; precipitation being lower in the lowlands
near the coast and higher in the mountains. Rainfall is well distributed
throughout the year and rarely drops below 100-150 mm in the driest months
(June/July). Temperatures range from 21 to 350C and humidity is always high
with an average of about 84 percent. The climate is considered ideal for oil
palm.
ToDojraghy and Soils
3.3       The Popondetta project area consists mainly of alluvial plains of
volcanic origin through which flow two main rivers, the Girua and the Samboga.
There are two main groups of soils, unweathered sandy volcanic soils often
with black or loam topsoil, and alluvial soils without formation or with
mottling due to impeded drainage.
3.4       The Kokoda project area lies mostly in the Yodda/Kokoda fault which
is a trough valley consisting of low hills with steep slopes. The basic
topography is a series of generally flat to gently undulating upper and lower
terraces. Some sections of the terraces are heavily intersected by fast-
flowing rivers and creeks. The soils are predominantly moderately to little
weathered brown ash volcanic soils, with dark-brown topsoil.
Vug2tati2n
3.5       Both project areas were originally mostly covered with primary
tropical forest. Now most flat areas are covered with secondary regrowth as a
result of logging or clearing for agricultural purposes, mainly for
subsistence food production. However the larger surrounding mountainous areas
still remain under primary forest, but are threatened by logging near
Popondetta and subsistence gardening near Kokoda. Large areas near Popondetta
are covered with a coarse grass, Imnerata cylidrica (Kunai). These degraded
grasslands are ancient in origin, but are maintained by frequent burning for
hunting purposes. Special measures will be required to eradicate the grass
for oil palm establishment (para. 4.7).



* 13 -
Current LAnd Use and Production
3.6       The main agricultural activity in the project areas is subsistence
food crop production. Many smallholders are also involved in cash crop
production, with approximately 1,500 farmers engaged in oil palm cultivation
in the Popondetta area, and about 250 farmers cultivating cocoa or rubber in
the Kokoda area. Estimated troe crop production in Oro Province in 1990 was:
210,000 tons FFB (about 32 percent of national production), 1,140 tons of dry
cocoa beans (3 percent), 275 tons of dry rubber (1 percent), and 263 tons of
green coffee beans (0.4 percent).
3.7       Practically all land in Oro Province is held under customary
tenure. The remaining land is in estate and individual Land Settlement Scheme
(LSS) blocks which are held on 99-year leases, and Land Title Conversion (LTC)
blocks which are freehold. Oil palm blocks established under the previous
Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project.(Loan 1333-PNG) range from
2 to 4 ha per farmer on customary land for area residents, to about 6.5 ha for
settlers, including 4 ha of oil palm and 2 ha of reserve land.
Infastructure
3.8       Oro Province can be reached from other parts of PN6 only by air and
sea as there are no inter-provincial roads. The airstrip at Popondetta is
sealed and there are daily flights to Port Moresby and other major towns.
There is a deep vater wharf at Oro Bay, 53 km from Popondetta. The total road
network of the province is some 750 km consisting mainly of unsealed
provincial roads. A good sealed national highway links Popondetta and Oro
Bay, but the main road from Popondetta to Kokoda, also a national highway, is
unsealed and needs to be improved. Within the Popondetta area, there is a
well developed road infrastructure, but there are many villages, throughout
the project are"s, which lack adequate road access or are cut off by rivers or
steep terrain. Social infrastructure for education and health services, and
rural police is extremely limited in the province.
Popuation
3.9       Oro Ptovince bas a population of about 185,000 persons representing
2.5 percent of PNG total population, with a density of about 3.8 persons per
kwu, one of the lowest in the country. Outside the towns of Popondetta and
Kokoda, the population is located in small and scattered villages. No
additional Immigration of settlers is expected due to clan resistance and
GOPNG's reluctance to establish new settlement schemes. Agriculture is the
main source of income for the majority of Oro Province families as outside
employment opportunities are rather limited. Higaturu Oil Palms Pty Ltd
(HOPPL) is the largest employer with over 2,000 jobs in the Popondetta and
Kokoda areas. Most project area farmers are familiar with oil palm and have
expressed interest in participating in oil palm development programs, as a
means of increasing their cash incomes, and improving social facilities and
services.



- 14 -
IV.  L   OECT
Project Identificatign and trenaration
4.1       Project identification and preparation were carried out on behalf
of Government by joint FAO/CP and CDC missions which visited PNG in August
1987 and July 1988 and submitted their reports in December 1987 and November
1988 respectively.
Project Objectives
4.2       The project aims at increasing agricultural production and exports,
providing employment opportunities, generating incomes for poor farmers,
maintaining the incomes of existing smallholders established under the
previous Bank-assisted smallholder development project, and protecting the
habitat of the endangered, world's largest butterfly species.
Prolegt Descrintion
4.3       The proposed six-year project would be an expansion of the
smallholder component of the ongoing Popondetta oil palm NES scheme and
include the following components:
(a)  Smallhoer Developmejn:  (i) establishing new oil palm blocks in
two areas of Oro Province, Popondetta (2,500 ha) and Kokoda (1,000
ha); (ii) planting about 3,000 ha of oil palm on the reserve land
of existing blocks in the Popondetta area; (iii) strengthening the
oil palm extension services, including recruitment and training of
additional staff, construction and maintenance of houses and office
facilities, and provision of vehicles and agricultural equipment;
(iv) building and maintaining agricultural roads (80 km of access
roads and 370 km of harvesting roads); and (v) building and
maintaining social infrastructure, including schools, health posts
and rural police stations;
(b)  main Road Imnrvement:  upgrading and maintaining sections of the
national road from Popondetta to Kokoda (59 km);
(c)  Enviromental Pxgtecti  :  protecting an endangered species of
butterfly in the Popondetta area;
(d)  Institutig=1 Str9Mg&henLUg:  (i) strengthening DAL capacity for
policy formulation and project preparation in the tree crop sub-
sector, through staff recruitment and training; (ii) strengthening
OPIC's management capacity; and (iii) supporting oil palm research;
(e)  Technical Assistance to OPIC; and
(f)  Studies in the tree crop sub-sector, including the identification
and preparation of future tree crop projects.



- 15 -
4.4       Oil Palm Deelonment.  About 6,500 ha of oil palm, consisting of
5,500 ha in the Popondetta area and 1,000 ha in the Kokoda area, would be
planted over six years by about 3,250 smallholder families (Table 4.1).  The
total cost of the component would be about US$7.7 million.
Tabl 4.1: OIL PALM PLANTING PROG1W( (ha)
Project year         1      2      3      4      5      6      Total
Reserve land         0      0    600    900    900      60      3,000
New blocks
Popondetta       500    800    500    400    200    100       2,500
Kokoda             0    100    200    300    200    200       1,000
Total              500    900  1,300  1,600  1,300    900       6,500
4.5       Under the proposed project, 3,000 ha would be planted on the
reserve land of about 1,500 existing 6 ha blocks established from 1978 in the
Popondetta area, under the Bank-assisted Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm
Development Project. The 2 ha reserve land on each block would be planted
with palms, which could be inter-cropped with food crops during the first two
years after planting. When these palms reach maturity, in the third year, the
first 2 ha of the original plantings would be felled and replanted with oil
palm, and intercropped with food crops. The second 2 ha of the original
plantings would be felled tnree years later to provide land for permanent food
crop cultivation. During the replanting cycle, farmers would maintain 4 ha of
mature oil palm. As the replanting cycle would start three years after
planting the reserve land, it would only commence after completion of the
proposed project, and is therefore not included under the current proposal.
4.6       New 2 ha oil palm blocks would also be established under the
proposed project for village farmers, including 2,500 ha in the Popondetta
area and 1,000 ha in the Kokoda area. Sufficient suitable clan lands are
available for these new blocks in both project areas. After groups of 10-15
potential smallholders have reached agreement with clan leaders for
cultivating oil palm on customary land, OPIC extension officers would
determine the suitability of the proposed land. Before processing the loan,
OPIC would require the submission of the clan land usage agreement for the
cultivation of oil palm. OPIC would also ensure that, should established food
crop gardens be displaced by the proposed oil palm development, alternative,
readily accessible land would be made available for food crop production. DEC
conservation officers would conduct a preliminary environmental survey to



- 16 -
determine whether the land proposed for oil palm cultivation could be
developed or should be kept for the conservation of the Alexandra birdwing
butterfly (para. 4.15). After approval from DEC, surveyors from OPIC and the
Department of Lands and Physical Planning would survey the blocks and
demarcate boundaries. Blocks would be aggregated to the greatest extent
possible to facilitate land preparation and reduce road construction and
transport requirements. Farmer selection criteria used by OPIC would include
age, health, family size, and previous credit experience. Farmers could apply
for a loan after the survey, but the loan would not be granted until the
farmers have themselves cleared and prepared the land for planting.
4.7       Farmers would clear degraded bushland and secondary forest
themselves, either manually or with chainsaws to minimize soil disturbance.
In the grasslands, trained OPIC workers would assist farmers to eradicate the
noxious grass weed (ImDerata cylindrica), using herbicides. HOPPL would
prepare the planting material in its nursery from selected seeds obtained from
DM1I in West New Britain. HTPL would deliver twelve-month old seedlings to
farmers ready for planting after OPIC's approval of the individual loan
applications. About 120 palms would be planted per ha. The inter-rows would
be sown with a legume cover crop (Pueraria) to enhance soil nutrient status,
control weeds and prevent soil erosion. However, OPIC would allow farmers to
Inter-crop the young palms with food crops, for about two years after
planting. Fertilizers would be applied regularly to individual palms
following the recommendations of the PNG Oil Palm Research Association (para.
4.21). Farmers would control weeds in the inter-rows manually, by regular
slashing. However, in the grasslands, herbicides would be used, by trained
OPIC workers, to control Imperata and ensure the rapid establishment of the
legume cover crop. Diseases in oil palm plantations are of little importance
and pesticide usage would be minimal.11 The first fruit bunches should be
ready for harvesting late in the third year after planting. Production would
extend over at least 17 years, until it would become too difficult to harvest
bunches due to the height of the palms.
4.8       ExAtension. The existing oil palm extension team in Oro Province
would be strengthened under the proposed project through: (i) the recruitment
of about 27 additional extension staff; and typists, surveyors, mechanics,
drivers and laborers; (ii) the construction and maintenance of about 20 staff
houses and office facilities; (iii) the provision of about 17 motorcycles,
4 four-wheel drive vehicles, 1 truck, 4 tractors with trailers and various
agricultural equipment such as rollers, water tank, grass slashers, chainsaws,
etc.; and (iv) the training of new extension staff in tree crop production and
extension techniques through training courses of 8 to 12 weeks duration, at
agricultural colleges in PNG. As OPIC has taken over DAL's responsibility for
the implementation of smallholder oil palm development, funds for extension
activities under the project would be passed from GOPNG to OPIC as a grant,
2/ None of the herbicides or pesticides would be in the Bank's Checklist of
Pesticides Not Recommended for Use in Agriculture or Suitable for Restricted
Use (OPN 11.01.).



- 17
under a subsidiary agreement. Signature of the Subsidiary Agreement (SA),
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para.
8.2). The total cost of the component would be about US$4.1 million.
4.9       Agricultural Roads. The project would provide for the construction
and maintenance of an agricultural road network in the smallholder areas
around Popondetta and Kokoda, consisting of about 80 km of access roads and
370 km of harvesting roads (70 km of two-way roads and 300 km of one-way
roads).  Agricultural roads would be constructed according to the
specifications of the Department of Works (DOW), which are satisfactory. Cost
estimates are based on average DOW kilometer costs for different types of
agricultural roads in Oro Province:  K30,000 to K35,000/km for access roads,
K26,000 for two-way harvesting roads and 116,000 for one-way harvesting roads.
The total cost of the component would be about US$13.3 million.
4.10      Social InfriNtruxM   .  The project would also provide for some
community services development, including the construction (or rehabilitation)
and maintenance of classrooms, health posts and associated housing, furniture
and equipment, and the construction of an office for the Popondetta Oil Palui
Growers Association. The project would also provide for the construction of
rural police stations comprising houses and office with associated furniture
on the new smallholder area subdivision centers, but the Bank would not
disburse against these facilities. The total cost of the component would be
about US$1.7 million, including US$1.5 million for classrooms and teachers'
houses.
4.11      Maintenance of Existing SMaIlholder Blocks.  To achieve
satisfactory production levels, it is estimated that each of the existing
1,500 smallholders requires about K120 a year to purchase fertilizers and
tools for regular maintenance of their blocks. To ensure that smallholders
have sufficient funds for the maintenance of their blocks, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that HTPL would enter into agreements with
existing smallholders to deduct and maintain in individual escrow accounts,
about K10 per month from their monthly FFB sales income until sufficient funds
have been accumulated to finance the smallholders, oil palm block maintenance
for the following year (para. 8.1).
Main Road Improvement
4.12      The proposed project would provide for the upgrading and
maintenance of the 59 km Isevene-Kokoda unsealed section of the main road from
Popondetta to Kokoda, which links both project areas, to meet the requirements
of the projected traffic of FFB transport trucks. The upgrading program would
consist of widening and sealing selected short sections of the road, including
steep hills, bridge approaches, and through villages. As the Popondetta to
Kokoda road has been classified as a National highway, it would be maintained
by the National Department of Works. The total cost of the component would be
about US$1.9 million.



- 18 -
4.13      fte  nageg;. Effluent from HOPPL palm oil factory, which
processes bo.h estate and smallholder crop, is at present partially treated in
two ponds and subsequently discharged into a watercourse leading into the
Ambogo River, causing downstream organic pollution in the river for well over
one kilometer. Under DEC's current policy regarding the treatment of palm oil
factory effluent, existing factories are assessed and regulated on a case-by-
case basis, while all new factories are required to achieve final effluent
standards similar to those used by the oil palm industry in Malaysia. HOPPL
started to upgrade its effluent treatment facilities in 1991 with the aim of
meeting those standards by 1994. An assurance was obtained during
negotiations that the upgrading would be completed not later than December 31,
1994 (para. 8.1).
4.14      HOPPL's solid wastes consist of empty fruit bunches, most of which
are burnt in the factory's incinerators, and domestic rubbish and scrap metal
which are dumped beside the watercourse leading into the Ambogo River. In
view of the potential hazard created by the scrap metal, an assurance was
obtained during negotiations that HOPPL would establish an adequate landfill
for the disposal of its non bio-degradable solid waste, away from water
courses, during the first year of project implementation, and not later than
December 31, 1993 (para. 8.1).
4.15      AaterUflX Conservatn.  The world's largest butterfly, the Queen
Alexandra Birdwing (Ornithopter alexa ndrae, see life-sized photograph on page
71), occurs only within a radius of about 50 km from Popondetta. The
butterfly and its natural food plants are species of the primary lowland
forest. Although the species has been protected in law since 1968, it is now
endangered through the continuing destruction of its forest habitat by logging
and agricultural activities, and is at the top of the international list of
endangered butterflies. A conservation program aimed at ensuring the survival
of the Alexandra birdwing has been prepared in collaboration with
International and national NGOs concerned with biodiversity conservation,
including Worldwide Fund for Nature, Conservation International, and Wau
Ecology Institute, and after consultations with landowners. The program is
also aimed at providing a replicable model for integrating conservation with
development in PNG. The project's conservation component provides for
critical short term conservation activities to ensure that new smallholder oil
palm development does not further endanger the butterfly and its associated
ecosystem. It would consist of mapping the distribution of the Alexandra
birdwing, advislng oil palm extension staff on the selection of land for oil
palm development, promoting the establishment of permanent conservation areas
which would remain under traditional land ownership but be subject to a ban on
forest clearance, and training DEC field personnel. An Alexandra Birdwing
Conservation Committee, consisting of NGOs, external donors, landowner
representatives and Government agencies, would be established to monitor
implementation of the conservation program, and inform GOPNG and donors on
progress in achieving conservation objectives.



- 19 -
4.16      Funding would be provided under the project for:  (i) a national
biologist/entomologist as Conservation Project Manager; (ii) a Principal
Research Officer (entomologist) for three years to study the butterfly and its
habitat, propose reserve areas, design research programs, and train the
national counterpart; (iii) about four staff, including an extension officer
with special focus on women activities (Annex 13, para. 9); driver and
laborers; and (iv) houses, offices and demonstration facilities, furniture,
vehicles, equipment and training. The total cost of the conservation
component would be about US$2.0 million. Condltion of disbursement for these
funds would be the employment of the Conservation Project Manager and the
Principal Research Officer, with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 8.3). GOPNO would seek financial
assistance from donor agencies in the form of grant funds to share in the cost
of conserving this internationally significant butterfly and thereby reduce
the amount of the Bank loan required.
4.17      The conservation program would also include other activities such
as research, to improve knowledge of the butterfly and its ecological
requirements; development of income generating alternatives to plantation
crops for landowners; and education to raise public awareness of the butterfly
and its conservation needs. These other activities, which are important for
the long term survival of the butterfly, would be closely coordinated with the
project's conservation activities described above. However, they would not be
included under the Bank-assisted project, as their timing does not have to be
synchronized with the oil palm development program, and grant funds would be
sought by GOPNG to finance their cost, estimated at about US$1.2 million.
4.18      Tree CroD DeveloM_ent. Tree cover would be provided through the
establishment of oil palm over large, degraded grassland areas (para. 3.5),
and would prevent burning, restore soil fertility and control erosion.
MstLtttLonal Strfngl1DSR
4.19      DeS=rtment of Azriculture and Livestock.  Tree crop related issues
are handled by separate DAL units: Investment, Pollcy and Planning, Research,
Protection, and Education and Trainit.  Effective management of the expanding
tree crop sub-sector is necessary Cs.- the successful implementation of GOPNG
strategy of putting primary emphasis ani agricultural growth through the
expansion of major export cash crops. To achieve this objective, the proposed
project would strengthen DAL capacity for policy formulation and project
preparation in the tree crop sub-sector, through the recruitment and training
of about nine additional staff, and provision of furniture and equipment. The
total cost of the component would be about US$2.4 million. The following
three units under the Policy and Planning Division would be strengthened:
(a) the Project Preparation Branch, which is responsible for the
preparation of all National and Provincial tree crop projects.
Three additional positions would be established for a project
planner, an economist and a financlal analyst;



- 20 -
(b) the FPam Management Unit, which was created in 1990 to set up a
regular and continuous monitoring system for the estate and
smallholder tree crop sub-sector to provide the basic data required
for policy analysis and formulation. Four addLtional posltions
would be established for three farm management specialists and one
support staff; and
(c) the Project Evaluation Unit, which would be created to evaluate
externally assisted tree crop projects. Two Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist positions would be established.
4.20      Oil Palm Industry Corporation. OPIC's structure provides for the
creation of two senior positions (General Secretary and Project Accountant) at
its headquarters in Port Moresby for the coordination of smallholder oil palm
project implementation, which was formerly under DAL's responsibility (para.
1.17). These two positions are temporarily filled by DAL staff in an acting
capacity. Funds would be provided under the project for: (i) the
international recruitment of two experienced specialists for the positions of
General Secretary and Project Accountant; and (ii) office furniture, equipment
and operational expenses for OPIC's headquarters. The total cost of the
component would be about US$1.6 million.
4.21      Support to Oil Palm Research.  Additional inputs from the Papua New
Guinea Oil Palm Research Association (PNGOPRA), an independent research
organization, would be required for the implementation of the proposed
expansion of smallholder oil palm in Oro Province, particularly to address
mineral nutrition needs in new areas for oil palm development on grasslands
near Popondetta and around Kokoda. PNGOPRA, which is financed by a cess on
both estate and smallholder FF3 and a grant from GOPNG, would not be able to
expand its research activities within its current budget structure without
additional funds. Funds would be passed under the proposed project as an
additional GOPNG grant to PNGOPRA for incromental adaptive research in the
project areas, under a subsidiary agreement, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. About US$0.6 million would be provided for equipment,
vehicles, training, incremental salaries and operational expenses. CgndLtions
of diabursenM   for these funds would be: (a) signature of the Subsidiary
Agreement (SA); and (b) that HOPPL be current (not more than two months
payments outstanding) with the payments of all research cess to PNGOPRA (para.
8.3).
Technical Assistance
4.22      The proposed project would provide about US$0.3 million for
technical assistance to OPIC consisting of regular visits by oil palm
specialists, wlth international experience, to asslst OPIC in monitoring the
implementation of ongoing smallholder oil palm development schemes.
4.23      The proposed project would provide for consultants (about 20
months, or US$0.2 million) to carry out studies in the tree crop sub-sector,



- 21 -
which would include the identification and preparation of future tree crop
projects, and would be determined after start of project implementation.
V.  POQ=  COSTS AmD FINANCING
PrWoiect Csts&
5.1       Quantities and costs are based on the November 1988 FAO/CP
preparation report and were revised in January 1992. Total project costs
including the expected contribution by smallholders in form of *sweat equity",
but excluding interest during construction, are estimated at US$36.3 million
(K34.5 million), of which US$17.5 million (48 percent) would be in foreign
exchange and US$1.1 million in duties and taxes. Base costs are expressed in
early 1992 values. Recurrent costs represent about 28.9 percent of base
costs. Physical contingencies are estimated at 5 percent for buildings,
vehicles, equipment and maintenance and 10 percent for roads and training
activities. Price contingencies are based on estimated annual local inflation
of 5.5 percent in 1992 and thereafter; and an estimated annual foreign
inflation of 3.7 percent from 1992. Total physical contingencies amount to
5.2 percent of base costs and expected price increases amount to 21.3 percent.
Project costs are presented in Annex 1 and summarized in Table 5.1. Detailed
cost breakdowns of project components are available in the Project File.
Tobte A: PROECT COST s5uNN
Kinm                US
tNI tt_ llionIlIifni            _        foreign   I Xoe
Local foreign  Tottl  Local Foteign  Total   Exchange   Cost
A. Sultholdwr Development
Ofl Palo Dcvelt unt      4.5    1.3   5.8   4.7    1.4  6.1          22.6     21.3
Extension Services       2.0    1.1   3.1   2.1    1.2   3.3        36.5      11.3
Agricultural Roads       2.6    7.2   9.8   2.7    7.5  10.2         73.5     35.6
Social Infr structuroe  J0 L6 0.7                    J  .r 1
9.r   1W.3  20t.0  10.2   -10.8  21.0
S. Nafn good lopovament     0.5    0.9   1.4   0.5    1.0   1.5        62.8       5.4
C. Institutiontl Streath    2.5    1.0  3.5    2.6    1.1   3.7        29.8      12.9
0. Enwironomntet Protect.   1.2    0.7   1.9   1.2    0.8   2.0        39.2       6.9
E. Technical Assistance     0.0    0.3  0.3   0.0    0.3   0.3    100.0           1.1
F. studes                  _JQ    0.2  -.2       . J0.   0.2           100. iMAfl
Total Resoling Costs   13.9   13.4  27.3   14.5   14.2  28.7       49.1     100.0
Physfcal Contiun.     O.S    0.9   1.4   0.5    1.0   1.5         65.2      5.2
Price Continr.    ,    A      AI   LA      M       LI  .1 -id              21
Total Project Costs        18.0   16.5  34.5   18.8    17.5  36.3      47.9     126.5
Interest dwrin Constr.      0.0    0.5   0.5   0.0    O.S   0.5        100.0      1.7
Total Financing Reuired    18.0   17.0  35.0   18.8   18.0  36.8       48.9    128.2



- 22 -
5.2       The proposed IBRD loan of US$27.0 million would finance 100 percent
of foreign exchange requirements and about 55 percent of local costs (net of
duties and taxes) or 73.0 percent of the total financing requirements
Including interest durlng constructlon (IDC) of US$0.5 million. IDC is based
on interest that would be paid by GOPNG on amounts disbursed in respect of the
smllholder credit component over the 3 year grace period during which
interest on funds on-lent to smallholders would be capitalized (para. 5.3).
GOPNG would finance 17.4 percent of total costs (US$6.4 million).  The
smallholders' contribution in form of "sweat equity' (providing own labor for
field establishment) would account for 9.2 percent of total project costs
(US$3.4 million). The proposed loan would be made to GOPNG at. the Bank's
standard variable rate for 20 years with a 5 year grace period. GOPNG would
bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan. The financing plan is
presented in Annex 2 and summarized in Table 5.2.
Table 5m2:  FINANCING PLAN
(USM million)
IBRD      GOPNG       Farmers      Total
A. Smallholder Development
Oil Palm Development            4.1         0.2          3.4         7.7
Extension Services              3.1         1.0          -           4.1
Agricultural Roads             11.7         1.6          -          13.3
Social Infrastructure           1.3         0.4                      1.7
Subtotal        20.2        3.2          3.4         26.8
B. Main Road Improvement           1.5         0.4          -           1.9
C. Institutional Strengthening     3.3         1.3                      4.6
D. Environmental Protection        1.7         0.8                      2.5
E. Technical Assistance            0.3         -                        0.3
F. Studies                          -          0.2                      0.2
¢. Interest During Construction    -05                      -           0.5
Total                27.0        6.4           3.4        36.8



- 23 -
Smallholder Credit Arrangements
5.3       Credit to smallbolders participating in the project would be in
form of planting materials and other agricultural inputs (fertilizers,
herbicides and tools). In line with measures being implemented to improve
agricultural incentives (para. 1.24), GOPNG would provide smallholders with
half the required oil palm planting materials, equivalent to about K240 per
smallholder (about 30 percent of total first year input requirements) as a
grant. Funds for the remaining inputs estimated at US$3.2 million (K3.0
million) would be lent by GOPNG to smallholders with Higaturu Transport Pty
Ltd (HTPL) administering the loan accounts on behalf of Government. OPIC
would select the project participants, determine the inputs to be provided
under the project, and sign credit agreements with participating smallholders
on behalf of GOPNG. OPIC would assist smallholders with land preparation in
grassland areas and would advise HTPL of the cost incurred to be charged to
smallholders. OPIC would provide HOPPL with a program detailing requirements
for oil palm planting materials twelve months in advance. GOPNG would pay
HOPPL in full for the planting materials to be supplied to the smallholders.
The smallholders loan accounts would be charged with half the cost of the
planting materials at the time of delivery. HTPL would purchase and
distribute the inputs to eligible smallholders, and charge individual loan
accounts for the cost of the inputs distributed. Upon maturity of oil palm
plantings, HTPL would purchase and sell the smallholders' FF to HOPPL (para.
6.8) and deduct and pass on to GOPNG for repayment of outstanding credit, 30
percent of smallholders' monthly sales income until smallholder loans are paid
off. HTPL would maintain on behalf of GOPNG appropriate records for
individual smallholders showing cost of inputs purchased and distributed,
quantity and value of monthly FFB purchases and sales, loan repayment
deductions and loan balance outstanding. It is estimated that individual
smallholder loans averaging Kl,OOO (US$1,050) would be repaid over a 10 year
period. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that GOPNG would
provide half the required oil palm planting materials to smallholders on a
grant basis (para. 8.1).
5.4       GOPNG would lend funds (about US$3.2 million) to smallholders in
Kina at a fixed interest rate of 8 percent per annum for 10 years including a
grace period of 3 years during which interest would be capitalized. To cover
sub-loan administration costs, GOPNG would pay to HTPL an annual management
fee, to be determined between GOPNG and HTPL, until smallholder loans are
repaid. GOPNG would bear'the full credit, foreign exchange and variable
interest rate risks and would pay the commitment fee on the Bank loan.
Assumption of the foreign exchange risk by GOPNG is justified in view of the
following considerations: (a) sub-loans to the 3,250 smallholders would be
very small (about US$1,050 each) and denominating these small loans in foreign
exchange to allow passing on the risk to the sub-borrowers would be
inappropriate for small farmers and administratively cumbersome; and, (b)
except for small quantities of fertilizers and herbicides, the bulk of sub-
borrowers' expenditures would be in local currency. Signature of a financial
management agreement between GOPNG and HTPL, satisfactory to the Bank, would
be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 8.2).



- 24 -
5.5       GOPNG's proposed new arrangements have four major advantages: (a)
subsidies would be explicit and financed through the budget; (b) distortionary
effects on the operation of the financial sector and rural commercial credit
mechanisms would be minimized; (c) poverty reduction is one of the major
purposes underlying the arrangements; and (d) GOPNG would achieve a high level
of cost recovery (para. 7.10). The cost recovery targets would ensure
adequate returns to the farmers and achieve recovery at levels comparable to
other countries.
Fuds FlogR
5.6       The flow of funds to project implementing agencies would be in
conformity with the current GOPNG budgeting system and procedures for
financing foreign assisted development projects: (i) a trust account would be
established for the Bank (with the Bank of Papua New Guinea) for its imprest
account; (ii) under Section 209 of the Constitution, financial proposals for
any given fiscal year must be presented to the National Parliament in the form
of a National Budget (revenue estimates and proposed expenditures). The final
appropriation approved by the National Executive Council is presented to the
National Parliament for endorsement in November. Under the Public Finance
(Management) Act, the Department of Finance and Planning (DFP) is responsible
for compilation of the National Budget and will allocate funds to individual
projects. In July of each year, a budget submission is made to DFP by those
agencies responsible for project execution; (iii) based on the approved annual
budget appropriation for the project, OPIC, DAL, DEC, DOW and PNGOPRA would,
at start of GOPNG fiscal year, prepare and submit to the Planning and
Budgeting Division of DFP, monthly cash flow statements (cash flow
requirements to meet expenditures on planned project activities). The
Planning and Budgeting Division would review the cash flow statement and check
funding requirements against the physical implementation schedule. Based on
the cash flow, warrant authority's would be raised on a quarterly basis. A
copy of the cash flow would be forwarded to the Office of International
Development Assistance (OIDA) in DFP. Copies of DAL, DEC, DOW and PNGOPRA
cash flow statements would be sent to the Project Accountant in OPIC (para.
6.3). OIDA would submit a withdrawal application (cash advance requirements)
to the Bank for the initial deposit of funds for three months into the Special
Account, to finance the Bank portion of project expenditures; (iv) DAL, DEC,
DOW and PNGOPRA would furnish to OPIC on a monthly basis, revised cash flow
statements and statements of actual expenditures incurred and paid for.
OPIC's Project Accountant would consolidate those statements with OPIC's and
submit these to OIDA on a monthly basis; (v) OIDA would then arrange for the
transfer of funds from the Special Account to reimburse GOPNG for the Bank's
share of actual expenditures incurred. Claims would be submitted by OIDA to
the Loans and Debt Management Division of DFP for on forwarding to the Bank to
ensure that expenditures conform with guidelines established by the Bank.
Based on the second quarter cashflow and surplus funds (if any) in the imprest
account, the Bank would replenish the Special Account; (vi) funds reimbursed
to GOPNG from the Special Account would go directly into the Consolidated
Revenue fund, and then could be used to pre-finance expenditures for
subsequent quarters; and (vii) applications for expenditures above US$250,000
could be submitted to the Bank directly without using Special Account funds.



25 -
5.7        With respect to the smallholder credit component, funds for credit
items -- planting materials and other agricultural inputs, which would be
procured through HTPL, and the cost of land preparation by OPIC -- would be
budgeted under DFP's Commercial Investment Division. Once a month after
expenditures on credit items have been incurred, HTPL would furnish to OPIC,
which would then submit to OIDA, a detailed expenditures report showing the
list and cost of items charged to individual participating smaliholders. OPIC
would be responsible for preparing quarterly cash flow statements of planned
smallholder project activities to allow COPNG to relesse funds to pre-finance
these activities prior to withdrawal of funds from the proceeds of the Bank
loan.
Proumaz=
5.8        Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.3 and  described
below:
TAble l3 PRCU_NIT 4U8h08 (OS mlttL.) 4l  A
____     ~Pwouagt mehd
PwoJeat Mm1nt             LCB         Otherk         VA         Total
Co0t
CIvL Mothk                 16.4                                  16.4
(14.7)                               (14.7)
VehIle.. Furlture           0.8          0.2                      1.0
* Equpann                  (0.8)       (0.2)                     (1.0)
3;1t (Vem"., E _Ipment,                 3.2                       3.2
BuiJga, m Rod.)                        (1.8)                     (1.$)
FrtaLsers                   0.7         0.5                       1.0
(0.6)       (0.3)                    (0.9)
PI amu* Wt*sul.                         2.2                       2.2
(2.2)                    (2.2)
5e.bLolde, TOS                           1.1                      1.1
(1.0)                    (1.0)
8elawta of Zne.euAl                                   5-5         5.5
Staff                                                (5.9)       (5.9)
4ew1t_sL Eqoae                                        1.8         1.8
(1.1)       (1.1)
Teebaloa AsLena                         0.5                       0.5
a TzSalns                               (0.4)                    (0.4)
Studi8                                  0.2                       0.2
(0.0)                    (0.0)
Srlboe ova Labor e.s                                              3.4
(0.0)      (0.0)
Iateeat DuC  CtaeatIon LS                             0.5         0.5
(0.0)      (0.0)
Sa                         IL                        ILL         MA
(16.1)      (5.9)         (3.0)      (27.0)
, Costa Ae" llusavo of oontaeaVo, dutis ad tame an fig"u" a Isp_1nthe
IndLoste insa  to be flua"d bythse lank.
Lk  Oher includ. pVVent aheppiutna for".Oct  d dieot contuos.
Lb Cap.tala.d latez..t an amaloleg Leons iwIa the I Yan suC4 P"Ao.



- 26 -
5.9       Civil Works (USS16.4 million).  As contract values for buildings
(US$2.9 million) and upgrading of Popondetta-Kokoda road (US$1.0 million)
would be small, and for construction of access and harvestlng roads (US$12.5
million) works would be widely spread geographically and over time, the
proposed civil works are unlikely to attract international firms. In view of
this, all civil works would be procured by local competitive bidding
procedures (LCB) acceptable to the Bank.
5.10.     Vehicles. Furniture. & Equipment (USSl.O million).  Due to their
small size and the fact that they are not all needed at the same time,
contracts for the supply of vehicles (US$0.6 million), furniture and equipment
(US$0.4 million) are unlikely to be of interest to international suppliers.
All vehicles and most furniture and equipment would be procured through LCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Some small house and office furniture and
workshop equipment (up to an aggregate of US$0.2 million) would be procured
through prudent shopping after having received at least three price quotes,
subject to a limit of US$50,000 for each purchase.
5.11      Maintenance (USS3.2 million).  DOW would use force account for the
maintenance of buildings (US$0.4 million), and roads (US$1.8 million) due to
the nature of the work in remote locations, which is unlikely to be of
interest to contractors. Vehicles would also be maintained by DOW on force
account (US$1.0 milllon).
5.12      Planting Haterials. Fertilizers. Herbicides & Tools (USS4.3
dllfLn).  Oil palm seedlings would be produced and supplied by HOPPL.  As
annual requirements would be small (below US$300,000), fertilizers would be
procured through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank for purchases above
US$50,000 and by prudent shopping for purchases below this amount. Tools and
small quantities of herbicides would be procured through prudent shopping
after havlng received at least three price quotes, subject to a limit of
US$50,000 per purchase.
5.13      Technical Assistance & Training (USSO.5 million). Technical
assistance and training, which would be financed by the Bank, would be
procured following the Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
5.14      Contrat        . After an initial review of standard bidding
documents for LCB contracts, the Bank would only review, prior to tendering,
bidding documents for contracts estimated to exceed US$200,000 with the
exception of technical assistance, training and consultant contracts.  The
remaining contracts would be reviewed, subsequent to their award, by the Bank
on a sample basis. All proposed short lists, terms of reference, evaluation
reports and final draft contracts for consultants would be subject to prior
review by the Bank.
sbu ments
5.15      Disbursements under the Bank loan are expected to be completed by
December 31, 1999, about seven years after Loan signing, in line with the
disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Papua New Guinea (Annex 3).
t-



- 27 -
5.16      Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made for:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local
expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local
expenditures for vehicles, furniture, equipment and related
transport services;
(c) 100 percent of expenditures for planting materials and agricultural
inputs (fertilizers, herbicides, and tools);
(d) 90 percent of expenditures for salaries and travel expenses of DAL,
OPIC, DEC and PNGOPRA incremental staff in FY93 and FY94, 75
percent in FY95, FY96 and FY97, and 25 percent thereafter;
(e) 100 percent of expenditures for house rentals for DAL and DEC
incremental staff;
(f) 90 percent of expenditures for road, vehicle and equipment
maintenance in FY93 and FY94, 75 percent in FY95, FY96 and FY97,
and 25percent thereafter; and
(g) 100 percent of expenditures for consultants' services, and
training.
5.17      Disbursements for all smallholder development activities including
planting materials, fertilizers, herbicides and tools; incremental OPIC staff
expenditures; incremental DAL, DEC and PNGOPRA staff expenditures; and all
contracts costing less than US$200,000 for civil works, vehicles, equipment
and furniture, would be made against itemized Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). OPIC would prepare the SOEs for expenditures related to smallholder
development and research, while DAL would prepare those related to DAL
institutional strengthening; DEC would prepare those related to butterfly
conservation; and DOW those related to upgrading and maintenance of the
Popondetta-Kokoda road. OPIC, DAL, DEC and DOW would keep the detailed
documentation supporting the SOEs. DAL, DEC and DOW have the capacity to
prepare SOEs and maintain records as they currently prepare SOE-type
accountability reports to comply with GOPNG budgeting procedures. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the SOEs would be audited and SOE
documentation made available to the Bank for inspection during supervision
(para. 8.1). Disbursements for all other project activities would be based on
fully documented withdrawal applications. OIDA would review and process the
withdrawal applications and furnish them to the Bank for replenishment of the
Special Account or reimbursement.
Snecial Account
5.18      A Special Account (Trust Account) has been established in the
central bank (Bank of Papua New Guinea) to facilitate disbursements under
World Bank loans. The account would be maintained in Kina with an authorized



- 28 -
allocation of Kina equivalent of US$1.0 million, representing an estimated
average of four months expenditures and would cover all expenditures, both
local and foreign, of less than US$250,000 eligible for Bank financing. Only
expenditures above US$250,000 equivalent would be submitted directly to the
Bank for payment.
Accounts and Audits
5.19      DAL, DEC, and DOW maintain their accounts in accordance wlth
standard GOPNG procedures. DAL, DEC and DOW would provide details of project
expenditures, including separate schedules of expenditures claimed under SO0
procedures to OPIC which would be responsible for preparing annual project
accounts for all project components, for submission to the Bank through OIDA.
HOPPL and HTPL, the two coumercial institutions which would be involved in the
implementation of the smallholder component, and PNGOPRA maintain their
accounts and records in accordance with generally accepted accounting standard
procedures, and their accounts are audited each year by independent auditors.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) DAL, DEC, DOW, OPIC,
and PNGOPRA would maintain separate project accounts; (b) OIDA would furnish
to the Bank, within six months of the end of GOPNG's fiscal year: (i) audited
project accounts covering DAL, DEC, DOW, OPIC and PNGOPRA project expenditures
including separate schedules of expenditures claimed under SO procedures, and
(ii) audit reports of the Special Account, audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; and (c) OPIC and PNGOPRA would furnish to the Bank,
within six months of the end of their respective fiscal years, their financial
statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 8.1).
VI. PROJECT IHPLEMENTATION AND MNAGOMENT
Project Management
6.1       The following institutions would have primary responsibility for
implementing the project: (i) the Oil Palm Industry Corporation (OPIC) would
be responsible for overall project coordination and implementing field
development activities, assisted by the Department of Works (DOW), and by the
Divisions of Education and Health of Oro Province; (ii) the Department of
Agriculture and Livestock (DAL) for DAL institutional strengthening; (iii) the
Department of Environment and Conservation (DEC) for environmental protection;
(iv) Higaturu Oil Palms Pty Ltd (HOPPL) for producing oil palm seedlings,
processing smallholder crop and marketing oil palm products; (v) Higaturu
Transport Pty Ltd (HTPL) for purchasing and transporting smallholder crop,
administering smallholder loan accounts on behalf of GOPNG, procuring
agricultural inputs for smallholders and collecting smallholder loan
repayments; and (vi) PNGOPRA for oil palm research. The project's
Organization Chart is shown in Annex 4.
6.2       To ensure full cooperation among all agencies involved with project
implementation, two committees would be established before the start of



- 29 -
project implementation, one at the national level, and one at the provincial
level to coordinate the planning and implementation of the project:
(a)  the National Oro Project Managent Committee (PMC) would be
established under DAL, and would have overall responsibility for
the coordination of planning, management and implementation of the
proposed project. The RIC would comprise the Secretary of DAL
(Chairman), the Secretaries of the Departments of Finance and
Planning, Works, Lands and Physical Planning, Environment and
Conservation, Education, and Health, or their nominees, the
Provincial Secretary of Oro Province, and representatives of HOPPL,
HTPL and PNOOPRA. The PMC would meet once every six months.
OPIC's General Secretary would be appointed the executive officer
of the PMC, and be responsible for day to day headquarters project
administration;
(b) the Provincial Oro Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would be
responsible for coordinating the activities of the proposed project
at the provincial level. The PCC would consist of the Field
Project Manager (Chairman), the Provincial Secretary of Oro
Province, and representatives of HOPPL, HTPL and PNGOPRA, the
National Departments of Works, Lands and Physical Planming,
Environment and Conservation, the provincial divisions of Priary
Industries, Education and Health. The PCC would meet at least once
every three months, with operational meetings as required;
(c) establishment of the National Oro Project Management Committee and
the Provincial Oro Project Coordination Committee and holding of
their first meetings would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 8.2).
il &Palm Industry Corloration (OPIC}
6.3       OPIC, which was created in early 1992 to take over DAL's
responsibilities for sallholder oil palm development' (para. 1.17), would be
directly responsible for field development activlties in Oro Province. It
would also be responsible for coordinating the implementation of all project
components. Based at headquarters, in Port Moresby, OPIC's General Secretary
would be the Project Manager of the proposed project, assisted in his duties
by a Project Accountant, who would be responsible, among other tasks, for the
preparation of consolidated quarterly project accounts. At Popondetta, OPIC's
Field Project Manager (FPM) would be rosponsible for the coordination of
Implementation of all components at the provincial level, and would report to
the General Secretary/Project Manager. The FPS would also be directly
responsible for the overall supervision of oil palm field development
activities in both project areas, for which he would be assisted by three
Field Supervisors, including a Developmuent Field Supervisor to supervise the
introduction of oil palm to farmers in new areas. OPIC would recruit
expsrienced specialists internationally for the duration of the project, for
the positions of General Secretary, Project Accountant, Field Project Manager
and Development Field Supervisor.



e 30 -
6.4       In view of the importance of OPIC's coordination role to ensure
successful project implementation, OPIC's General Secretary, Project
Accountant and Field Project Manager should be appointed before start of
project implementation. The appointment of the three above staff, with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 8.2). Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that OPIC would: (a) appoint the Development
Field Supervisor during the first year of project implementation; and (b)
maintain staff with the appropriate qualifications for management and/or
technical expertise, which should be acceptable to the Bank, for the positions
of General Secretary, Project Accountant, Field Project Manager and
Development Field Supervisor, during the entire project implementation period
(para. 8.1).
The Department of Agriculture and Livestock (DAL)
6.5       The Director of the Policy and Planning Division would be
responsible for coordinating the implementation of DAL's institutional
strengthening component, and liaising with OPIC's General Secretary.
The Degartment of Environment and Conservation (DEC)
6.6       DEC would be responsible for implementing the environmental
protection component. The Secretary, DEC, would appoint a Conservation
Project Manager (national entomologist) at Popondetta who would be responsible
for coordinating the implementation of the butterfly conservation component
and liaising with OPIC's Field Project Manager. The Conservation Project
Manager would report to the First Assistant Secretary at DEC Headquarters, who
would liaise with OPIC's General Secretary. The employment of the
Conservation Project Manager and the Principal Research Officer (para. 4.16),
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
would be a condition of disbursement for the butterfly conservation component
(para. 8.3).
6.7       The Bureau of Water Resources, which is responsible for the
issuance of water use permits in PNG, would monitor HOPPL palm oil factory
effluent treatment, to be upgraded under the project (para. 4.13).
Higaturu Transport Ptv Limited (HTPL)
6.8       HTPL, a wholly GOPNG-owned company was incorporated in 1980 with an
authorized share capital of K1.0 million, of which K600,000 is paid up.  The
company was established for the purpose of transporting smallholder .FFB to
HOPPL's oil palm factory under the existing oil palm scheme which started in
1977. HTPL's operations are overseen by a Board of Directors consisting of
two senior GOPNG officials (the Secretaries of DAL and DFP) and the Managing
Director of HOPPL. The company is managed by HOPPL under a management
agreement with GOPNG and has a staff of 57, the majority of whom are drivers
who operate the company's fleet of FFB haulage trucks and tractors. Under the
existing oil palm scheme, HTPL purchases, transports and sells smallholder FF3
to HOPPL and assists in the recovery of smallholder credit under the scheme by



- 31 -
deducting and passing on to ABPNG, 30S of smallholders' monthly FFB sales
income for loan repayment. To carry out these responsibilities, HTPL has set
up an elaborate computerized system for the maintenance of up-to-date and
accurate records of individual smallholder FFB sales and loan repayment
deductions.
6.9       HTPL's income is derived from a transport charge (currently Kil  per
ton of FFB transported) which is deducted from the price paid to smallholders.
The transport charge is based on the amount of revenue required to guarantee
GOPN¢ an annual return of at least 5 percent on its investment. HTPL made a
profit and paid an annual dividend to GOPNG every year up to 1990. For the
first time in 1991, however, HTPL made a net loss of K87,000 (US$91,000)
following a reduction in the transport charge (to K9.0/ton of FFB) during the
year to mitigate the impact of low oil palm prices on smallholders incomes.
In the five years, prior to 1991, HTPL made an average annual profit of
K83,000 (US$87,000) representing an average return of 8 percent return on
total assets and of 10 percent on equity. HTPL has maintained a sound
liquidity position with an average current ratio of 3.3 over the past four
years. With reserves totaling K121,000 and no outstanding debt as of December
31, 1991, HTPL is in excellent financial condition. HTPL's detailed actual
and projected financial statements for the period 1989-2005 are presented in
Annex 11. The projections show continued strong liquidity and financial
performance with an average current ratio of 2.4, regular payment of dividends
to GOPNG and an average return on equity of 8 percent.
6.10      Under the proposed project, HTPL would be responsible for the
purchase, collection and transport of smallholder crop, procurement of
agricultural inputs required for the establishment of smallholder blocks and
smallholder input distribution, maintenance of smallholder loan accounts, and
for the collection of smallholder loan repayments. UTPL would keep detailed
records of all expenditures and would submit these to OPIC at the end of each
month. Upon maturity of oil palm plantings, HTPL would ddduct 30 percent of
smallholders' income from FFB sales to HOPPL and remit the funds to Government
for repayment of smallholder loans. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations regarding HTPL's responsibilities (para. 8.1).
Higaturu Oil Palms Ptv Ltd (H0PPL=
6.11      HOPPL, a joint venture company between GOPNG and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC), was incorporated in 1976 and is owned equally
by GOPNG and CDC which provides management and technical services for a fee.
The company owns plantations totalling 6,100 ha in Oro province consisting of
5,000 ha oil palm in the Popondetta area and 1,100 ha of cocoa in the Kokoda
area and operates a palm oil factory for processing crop produced on its own
estates as well as crop produced by about 1,500 smallholders in the Popondetta
area. The capacity of the factory is adequate to process the additional
smallholder crop which would be produced under the project. HOPPL would be
responsible for processing smallholder crop, marketing the oil palm produce,
and supplying oil palm seedl.ngs to farmers through HTPL in collaboration with
OPIC. A Smallholder Production Manager would provide coordination between
HOPPL, HTPL and the OPIC extension team. HOPPL would also be responsible for



- 32 -
upgrading the effluent treatment plant of its palm oil factory (para. 4.13).
6.12      Except for 1989 and 1990 when it made losses of R1.0 million and K
4,6 million respectively due to depressed world oil palm prices, HOPPL had
operated profitably in the previous years. However, its profits have been
modest as shown by a low average return on sales of only 9.9 percent over the
five year period ended December 1989. HOPPL's overall low profitability over
the years is attributable to declines in palm oil prices notably in 1986 and
1989, drought conditions in 1987 which led to low FFB production and a
reduction in the factory throughput, foreign exchange losses, high interest
expenses on foreign currency borrowing raised to finance the palm oil factory,
and high administrative costs due to a large complement of CDC seconded
expatriate management and technical staff. In order to ensure HOPPL's
continued financial viability in the light of depressed palm oil prices, GOPNG
and CDC have each agreed to provide HOPPL with additional equity of K2.5
million. GOPNG's additional equity contribution will be released in two
tranche of K1.0 million in 1992 and K1.5 million in 1993.  To match GOPNG's
contribution, CDC has agreed to convert K2.5 million of its loans to HOPPL
into equity.
6.13      The additional equity will enhance HOPPL's financial condition. Its
debt-equity ratio is projected to improve from 30:70 as of Dscember 31, 1991
to well below 10:90 in 1996 when most of existing debt is expected to be paid
off. To reduce its administrative costs, which have averaged a high 18
percent of average total assets over the past 3 years, HOPPL is progressively
replacing expatriate management and technical staff with local staff. As a
result, its administrative costs are projected to decline to an average of
about 11 percent of average total assets over the next 14 years. After a
small loss of K125,000 projected in 1993 due to the low palm oil prices
forecast for the year, HOPPL's financial performance is expected to improve
with pre-tax profits increasing steadily from K2.3 million in 1994 to around
K8.3 million in 2005, at a nominal average growth rate of 14 percent per annum
representing an average return of about 8.5 percent on average total assets
over the period. HOPPL's actual and projected financial statements (1989-
2005) are presented in Annex 12.
6.14      The proposed project, which would provide additional crop from new
smallholder plantings and increased productivity from existing blocks, would
contribute to HOPPL's financial returns by increasing the factory throughput,
thereby reducing per unit processing, overhead and marketing costs.
Other Implementing Baencles
6.15       The Department of Works (DOW) would be responsible for the
construction of roads, bridges, DAL, OPIC and DEC offices and houses, and
social infrastructure. DOW in Port Moresby would assist in the planning,
design and preparation of tender documents. The provincial branch of DOW
would supervise the construction work. The Papua New Guinea Oil Palm Research
Association (PNGOPRA) would be responsible for the implementation of the
adaptive oil palm research program. The Division of Education and Division of



- 33 -
Health of Oro Province would provide staff to the social services facilities
to be constructed or rehabilitated under the project.
monitorina. &Autiot and _tuxlLig
6.16      OPIC would be responsible for the overall monitoring and evaluation
of project implementation, with DEC's assistance for the environmental
protection component. Physical and financial progress of all project
components would be measured on the basis of a detailed implementation plan
and quarterly progress reports prepared by OPIC's Field Project Manager with
the assistance of DEC Conservation Project Manager and DOW at Popondetta, and
submitted to OPIC's General Secretary. Progress reports would also address
issues of quality and other performance indicators. Aggregated progress
reports on all project components would be prepared by the OPIC's General
Secretary and submitted semi-annually to the Bank. For monitoring progress in
butterfly conservation activities, DEC would also prepare and submit to the
Bank annual detailed reports on the implementation of the conservation
program. A Project Completion Report would be furnished to the Bank within
six months of the loan closing date. The Bank's Supervision Plan is shown at
Annex 5.
Project Imleinentstion Schedule
6.17      The project would be implemented over a six year period, with
disbursements over seven years. Smallholder field development activities,
DAL's institutional strengthening and butterfly conservatior. would start
immediately. Upgrading of the main road from Popondetta to Kokoda would be
carried out in the second and third years. Some iumature plantings would
continue to be maintained after completion of the project, and their
maintenance to maturity would require additional 7inancing, estimated at
US$0.3 million. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that GOPNG
would make the required funds available to smallholders under the same terms
and conditions as those applicable during the project implementation period.
Armex 6 shows the implementation schedule for the project.
Status of Imnlementation
6.18      The oil palm extension team at Popondetta has started screening the
large number of village farmers' applications for oil palm development. HOPPL
has begun to upgrade its palm oil factory effluent treatment plant. In 1991,
DEC started butterfly conservation activities in Oro province. A preliminary
field survey (financed by Conservation International) was carried out in mid-
1991 to identify areas of potential importance for the conservation of the
butterfly, before the detailed mapping of the butterfly's habitat is
completed. GOPNG introduced the revised smallholder FFB pricing formula on
October 1, 1991 (para. 7.2). HOPPL has ordered oil palm seeds for the first
year plantings.



- 34 -
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Yields and Production
7.1       Average FFB yields from smallholders are expected to rise from
S tons/ha in year 3 to a peak of 19 tons/ha in year 7, thereafter declining to
18 tons/ha in year 9, and 15 tons in year 13, down to 13 tons in year 20
(Annex 8). It is expected that the palms would only be harvested for about
17 years until they reach 20 years of age, when their height would make
harvesting difficult. Incremental smallholder FFB production is estimated to
peak at about 118,000 tons in year 11, with an expected output of about 25,000
tons of crude palm oil and about 6,000 tons of palm kernels.
Marketing and Pricing of Smallholder Produce
7.2       HOPPL would continue to make direct arrangements for the marketing
of palm oil and palm kernels produced by its estates and smallholders.
Smallholder FFB would be collected by HTPL in both project areas. GOPNG
reviewed the smallholder pricing formula in 1991, with expert assistance and
in consultation with oil palm estate companies which process smallholder crop,
to ensure in particular that the interests of the smallholders and processors
are fairly balanced in times of low prices. The revised formula has been
applied since October 1, 1991. An assurance was obtained during negotiations
that DAL would regularly monitor the application of the formula (para. 8.1).
Oil palm prices have been supported by stabilization funds in each project
area, which aim at ensuring that smallholders receive a reasonable income when
palm oil prices are low. These funds have operated well since their
inception, but because world prices are currently depressed, some of the funds
are currently exhausted. GOPNG is providing loans to the funds, derived from
the European Community's STABEX scheme. The project's farm models use the
World Bank's commodity price projections and the current FFB pricing formula
and do not assume the operation of a stabilization scheme.
Benefits and Poverty Alleviation lmpact
7.3       Smallholder Incomes.  The main beneficiaries of the project would
be the 3,250 targeted smallholders in the Popondetta - Kokoda areas of Oro
Province. Each participant would have a 2 ha oil palm block which would reach
a peak production of about 38 tons of FFB for the 2 ha within 7 years of
planting.
7.4       An analysis of financial costs and benefits indicates that the
proposed investment in the development of new oil palm blocks would be
financially attractive to the beneficiaries. A typical smallholder would
receive a gross income at peak production (year 7) of about 1754/year (US$790)
in 1992 constant terms. The annual outlay on fertilizers, agro-chemicals, and
other production inputs would average K150, about 17 percent of revenue. Even
if the imputed cost of farmer's labor is included, total oper-sting costs would
be about 38 percent of oil palm revenue. The net cash family incomes
estimated at an average of K380/year (US$400) in 1992 constant terms would be



- 35 -
above the level of rural incomes in Oro Province, estimated around K250/year.
Based on these incomes and operating costs, the financial rate of return for a
2 ha block is estimated at 20 percent (Annex 8).
7.5       Total credit requirements per family for the development of new 2
ha blocks would amount to about K1,000 in current terms, including capitalized
interest (at 8 percent p.a.) during the proposed 3 year grace period. A
maximum of 30 percent of the farmer's income from FFB sales would be deducted
for debt service. Smallholder repayments would average about K230 a year.
Smallholder loans would be repaid over six years (year 4 through 9 of the
project). Cash flow projections indicate that family annual income and return
per man-day of family labor after debt service payments would average K615
(US$645) and K12 (US$13) in current terms respectively over the seventeen year
productive life of the oil palm plantings (Annex 9).
7.6       Incremental Production and Eiworts.  The project would increase
palm oil and palm kernel production and exports by an average of 16,300 tons
and 3,800 tons respectively per annum and would generate about K75 million
(US$78 million) in total incremental export revenues over the project
implementation period.
7.7       Other Proiect Benefits.  Other project benefits would include: (i)
now health and education facilities, servicing communities of about 20,000
people; (ii) improved access in the project area, through the upgrading of the
main Popondetta to Kokoda road and construction of village roads; and (iii)
the protection from extinction of the largest butterfly in the world and its
associated ecosystem.
Economic Ana   is
7.8       A combined economic rate of return (ERR) has been calculated for
the smallholder development, main road improvement, research components. The
butterfly conservation and DAL institutional strengthening components have
been excluded. The ERR is estimated at 12.4 percent, based on the following
assumptions:
(a) Conversion Factors: All economic costs are net of taxes and duties.
International prices have been converted to Kina at the current
exchange rate. A standard conversion factor of 0.9 has been used
to convert local costs to border Kina as PNG has a relatively open
economy and except for labor wages, it has few price distortions.
Labor costs, however, are distorted. The current rural minimum
wage rate of K3.75 per day is very high in relation to labor
productivity. It is estimated that the minimum wage rate is 30-40
percent higher than the market wage rate. Accordingly, a factor of
0.65 has been used to convert labor costs into economic prices.
(b)   rojSct Period.  The economic analysis covers a 20 year period
which is the estimated economic life of oil palm plantings that
would be established under the project. The existing HOPPL palm



- 36 -
oil factory, which would process smallholders's production has been
treated as a sunk cost.
(c)  Social Infrastructure and Main Road Imorovement.  As the social
infrastructure and Popondetta - Kokoda main road improvement are
expected to benefit project and non-project areas equally, only 50
and 25 percent of the respective estimated costs have been
allocated to the project in calculating the ERR.
(d)    IC St. As OPIC is responsible for the coordination of
the country's four smallholder oil palm schemes, only 25 percent of
the costs of OPIC strengthening have been allocated to the project.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.9       Sensitivity analysis was used to determine the project's
sensitivity to cost overruns, benefit reductions, and lags in benefit flows.
Analysis of switching values based on a 10 percent discount rate, the
opportunity cost of capital in PNG, shows that costs could increase up to 10
percent without reducing the ERR below 10 percent. Sensitivity to changes in
oil palm revenue is high. The ERR would fall to 10 percent if oil palm
revenues declined by 10 percent, or were delayed by one year (Annex 10).
Cost Recoegrv
7.10      Financing to be provided by GOPNG from its own funds and from the
proceeds of the Bank loan amounts to US$33.4 million or 91 percent of the
project's total financing requirements. Smallholder oil palm establishment
costs would amount to K4.3 million (US$4.5 million) of which Kl.l million
would represent half of the planting materials provided to smallholders as a
grant (para. 5.3). Only US$3.2 million -- representing the smallholder
credit package would be recovered directly. With the deduction of smallholder
loan repayments at source (from sales of smallholder FFB to one processor),
and based on experience with similar smallholder oil palm schemes in Asia, it
is expected that GOPNG would recover about 70 percent of on-farm costs (both
grant and credit). Recovery of smallholder oil palm establishment costs has
also been estimated on the basis of a cost recovery index which measures the
net present value (assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 10 percent) of
forecast recoveries in constant terms, as a percentage of the net present
value of on-farm costs (both grant and credit). The key assumption in
calculating the index is the repayment rate for the credit component of on-
farm costs. Experience shows that for oil palm schemes, a repayment rate of
up to 90 percent is achievable. Based on these assumptions, the cost recovery
lndex for on-farm costs (both grant and credit) would be about 60 percent and
about 90 percent for the credit component.
Social and Environmental Impact
7.11      Povertv Orientation of the Prolect.  The proposed project would
benefit about 3,250 poor smallholder families.



- 37 -
7.12      Datole ogl Women. Women are lnvolved in oil palm cultivation as
an integral part of the family unit, and are responslble for food crop
production in Oro Province. Women in the project area generally have some
control on how the family income is spent, and therefore would benefit from
the lncreased family income brought by additional dll palm. After
consultations with women in the project area during preparation, specific
provisions have been made under the project for: (i) onsuring that land would
remain available and readily accessible for food production (par"s. 4.5-4.7);
(ii) improved rural health and education facilities (para. 4.10); and (iii)
under the conservation program, staff and facilities to identify and develop
further economic opportunities for women (Annex 13).
7.13     ItL z.gn    J ..L_ugJ Mt. The project is expected to have an overall
positive environmental impact. Present high water pollution levels would be
reduced in the densely populated area around Popondetta through the upgrading
of the effluent treatment plant of the HOPPL palm oil factory. The world's
most notable endangered species of butterfly, the Queen Alexandra birdwing,
vould be protected from possible extinction through the promotion of
conservation areas. Tree cover would be provided through the establishment of
oil palm over large, degraded grassland areas, formerly covered with forest,
and would prevent burning, restore soil fertility and control erosion. The
clearing of degraded bushland and secondary forest would be done using chain
saws to minimize soil disturbance and prevent soil erosion. Finally,
herbicides would be used in small quantities in the grassland areas by trained
personnel and would have no signiflcant adverse environmental effects.
7.14      The proposed project has been designed to build on existing
infrastructure and services and no special agricultural risks have been
identified. Effluent treatment would use an established technology and would
be regularly monitored by DEC. The primary financial risk is that declines in
international commodity prices below projected levels would result in poor
financial returns to smallholders, inhibiting harvesting, and to the estate
company, jeopardizing its ability to process the crop profitably. Related to
the financial risk, is possible slippage of offsetting macro policy
implementation. Such slippage is a significant possibility as regards wage
policy and competitiveness, especially during the coming years of rapid
development of the country's mineral wealth. However, PNG has assembled a
solid track record of macroeconomic stability since Independence, reinforced
by its adjustment performance slnce 1989. Other potential risks would be:
(a) poor field maintenance, low yields and even abandonment by the non-
traditional oil palm farmers. This risk would be minimized by selection of
village farmers, technical assistance and supervision by OPIC extension team
supported under the project; (b) the farmers would continue to practice
shifting cultivation on forest land identified as important for the
conservation of the endangered species of butterfly and its associated
ecosystem. This would be addressed by promoting permanent conservation areas
that would remain under traditional land ownership, but be subject to a ban on
forest clearance; and (c) project implementation may suffer from political
difficulties and civil unrest, which affect various regions of the country



* 38 -
from time to time. This risk would be mitigated by having the provincial
authorities represented on the projoct's Provincial Coordination Committee,
and by the inclusion of a significant social infrastructure component,
deslgned after consultations with the farmers during project preparation.
VIII. ARRE      2SM REACHE AND R 2MMEDATi
hAurances
8.1       The following assurances were obtained from GOPN6 during
negotiations and incorporated into the Loan Agreement:
(a) HTPL would enter into agreements with existing smallholders to
deduct and maintain in individual escrow accounts, about K10 from
their monthly FFB sales income until sufficient funds have been
accumulated to finance the oil palm block maintenance for the
following year (para. 4.11);
(b) HOPPL would: (i) upgrade its effluent treatment facilities at its
palm oil factory not later than December 31, 1994 (para. 4.13); and
(ii) establish an environmentally adequate landfill for the
disposal of its non-biodegradable solid waste in a location away
from water courses not later than December 31, 1993 (para. 4.14);
(c) GOPNG would provide half the required oil palm planting materials
to smallholders on a grant basis (para. 5.3);
(d) DAL, DEC, DOW, OPIC and PNGOPRA would maintain separate project
accounts; OIDA would submit to the Bank, within six months of the
end of GOPNG's fiscal year: (i) audit reports of project accounts
covering DAL, DEC, DOW, OPIC and PNGOPRA project expenditures and
including separate schedules of expenditures claimed under SOE
procedures, and (ii) audit reports of the Special Account; the
project accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; OPIC and PNGOPRA would submit to the Bank,
within six months ,of the end of their respective fiscal years,
their financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.19);
(e) the positions of OPIC's General Secretary, Project Accountant,
Field Project Manager and Development Field Supervisor would remain
filled until completion of the project by staff with qualifications
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and OPIC
would appoint a Development Field Supervisor not later than
December 31, 1993 (para. 6.4);



- 39 -
(f) HTPL would purchase and transport smallholder crop, procure
agricultural inputs required for the establisbment of smallholder
blocks, and collect smallholder loan repayments (para. 6.10);
(g) GOPNG would make funds (US$0.3 million equivalent) available to
smallholders for the maintenance of plantings after completion of
the project until they reach maturity; the funds would be lent to
smallholders under the same terms and conditions as those
applicable during the project implementation period (para. 6.17);
and
(h) DAL would regularly monitor the application of the smallholder mFB
pricing formula (para. 7.2).
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
8.2       The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) signature of the Subsidiary Agreement between GOPNG and OPIC,
satisfactory to the Bank, regarding the financing of OPIC's project
related activities (para. 4.8);
(b) signature of the Financial Management Agreement between GOPNG and
HTPL, satisfactory to the Bank, regarding smallholder credit
arrangements (para. 5.4);
(c) establishment of the National Oro Project Nanagement Committee and
Provincial Oro Project Coordination Committee and holding of their
initial meetings (para. 6.2); and
(d) appointment of OPIC's General Secretary, Project Accountant and
Field Project Manager, with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.4).
Conditions of Disbursement
8.3       The following would be conditions of disbursement:
(a) for the butterfly conservation component, employment of the
Conservation Project Manager and the Principal Research Officer,
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank (para. 4.16); and
(b) for the research support component: (a) signature of the Subsidiary
Agreement between GOPN¢ and PN¢OPRA, satisfactory to the Bank,
regarding the financing of PEGOPRA's project related activities ;
and, (b) HOPPL should be current with payments (with not more than
two months outstanding) of all research cess to PNGOPRA (para.
4.21).



- 40 -
8.4       Wlth the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$27 million equivalent for a term of 20 years,
including a 5 year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. The Borrower would be the Independent State of Papua New Guinea.



PAPUA KU E UINEA
ORO SNALLUOLDER OIL PALN DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Project Cost SuIary a/
KINA                              USt                          X Total
.............................    ...........................-   X Foreton        Base
Local   Foreign     Total        Local  foreign    Total     Exchange      Costs
A. So ofl Palm Dewltpt              4S13.4    t316.2    5829.6       4736.0   1381.1  6117.1           22.6      21.3
B. Extensmon Service.
1. Extension Staff               1223.1       0.0    1223.1       1283.4      0.0   1283.4           0.0       4.5
2. Extensmin Infrastructure       500.2     U81.3    981.4         524.8   S05.0   1029.8           49.0       3.6
3. Ext Veh./Eqifp./Trafnfng       248.7     653.8      902.5       261.0   6t6.0    947.0           72.4       3.3
..............................    ............................................. ...................... ........................0..........
SUb-Totat                           1972.0    1135.0    3107.0       2069.2   1191.0   3260.3          36.5      11.3
C. Asricultural Roads
1. Access Roads                   755.2    2017.7    2773.0        792.5   2117.3   2909.8          72.8      10.1
2. Harvesting Roads              1828.6    5136.1    6964.7       1918.8  5389.4   7308.2           73.7      25.4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .                                  _...............................   .. ..............
Sub-Totat                           2583.9    7153.9    9737.7       2711.3   70.7  10218.0            73.5      35.6
0. Social Infrastructure
1. Education                      606.0     623.0    1229.0        635.9    653.7   1289.6          50.7       4.5
2. Nealth & Security               50.7      47.3      98.0         53.2     49.6    102.8          48.3       0.4
80b-Totat                            656.7     670.3    1327.0        689.1    703.4   1392.4          50.5       4.8
E. Main Road lqxo nnnen              5147.5    922.5    1470.0        574.5   968.0   1542.5           62.8       5.4
F. Institutionat Strength.
1. DAL Strengthening             1481.1     335.0    1816.1       1554.2   351.5   1905.7           18.4       6.6
2. Research Support               326.4     161.1     487.5        342.5    169.1    511.5          33.1       1.8
3. OPIC Strengthening             665.0     555.O    1220.0        697.8   582.4   1280.2           45.5       4.5
................. ....................................... ...........................   ....................
Sub-Total                           2472.5    1051.1    3523.6       2594.5   1103.0   3697.4          29.8      12.9
G. Envilromntat Protection
1. Butterfly Conservation        1157.1     744.8    1901.8       1214.1    781.5   1995.6          39.2       6.9
R. Technicat Assistance               30.0     270.0     300.0         31.5    283.3    314.8          90.0       1.1
1. Studies                             0.0     193.4      193.4         0.0    202.9    202.9         100.0       0.7
................... .................................... ...........................   ....................
Totat BASELINE COSTS               13933.0  13457.2  27390.2        14620.2  14120.8  28741.0          49.1     100.0
Physical Contingencies            488.9     916.6.   1405.5        513.0    961.8  1474.9           65.2       5.1
Price Contingencies              3579.7   2192.1    57m.7         3756.2  2300.2  6056.4            38.0      21.1
Total PROJECTS COSTS               18001.6   16565.9  34567.5    18889.4  17382.9  36272.3             47.9     126.2
Values Sealed by 1000.0 - 4/25/1992  8:48
a/ excluding interest during construction
I.



PAM  M  GUINEA
MDO SALLNOLSER OIL PALK EVELOPUENT PROJECT
KIMA
Project ceqxwments by Year a/
Base costs                              Total
..........................................................................
1993    1994    199f    1996    199?    1990  9INA   US$
A. SH Olt Pats Devetcpt            295.2   626.3  1040.3  1374.8  1353.?  1139.2  529.6  6117.1
B. Extension services
1. Extension Staff                66.4   152.0   196.7   248.1   280.0   280.0  1223.1  1283.4
2. Extensfon Infratructure       116.5   346.0   236.4   237.8    24.8    t9.8   981.4  1029.8
3. Ext Veh./Equfp./Training      134.5   271.5    86.5   151.7   166.3    91.9   902.5   947.0
Sdbrtotat                          317.4   769.6   519.6    7.6    471.1   391.7  3107.0  3260.3
C. Agriculturat Roads
1. Access Roads                  150.0   627.7   638.9   675.2   387.4   293.7  2M.0  2909.8
2. Narvestftn  Roads             495.0   917.5  1347.1  1684.7  1397.8  1122.7  6964.7  738.2
...........;:............................................................
Sub total                          645.0  1545.2  1986.0  2359.9  1785.2  1416.4  9737.7  10218.0
0. Sociat Infrastructure
1. Education                     484.0   426.0    32.0   227.0    30.0    30.0  1229.0  1289.6
2. Heatth & Security              60.0     8.0      8.0      9.0      6.5     6.5    98.0   102.8
........................................................................
S.b totat                          544.0   434.0    40.0   236.0    36.5    36.5  1327.0  1392.4
E. Hain Road luprovement           120.0   570.0   420.0   120.0   120.0   120.0  1470.0  1542.5
F. Institutfonmt Strength.
1. DAL Strengthening             466.7   426.8   431.8   163.6   163.6   163.6  1816.1  1905.7
2. Reserch Sdqzport              146.5    63.0    63.0    89.0    63.0    63.0   487.5   511.5
3. OPIC Strenathening            220.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0  1220.0  1280.2
Sibtotal                           833.2   689.8   694.8   452.6   426.6   426.6  3523.6  3697.4
G. E,vircomuetal Protectien
1. Butterfly Conservation        554.9   382.4   277.0   229.4   230.9   227.0  1901.8  1995.6
H. Technical Assistance             50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0   300.0   314.8
1. Studies                           0.0     0.0      0.0   193.4       0.0     0.0   193.4   202.9
Total BASELINE COSTS              3359.8  5067.3  5027.7  5653.8  4474.0  3807.5 27390.2 28741.0
Physical Contingencfes          161.1   294.1   282.1   294.7   212.3   161.2  1405.5  1474.9
Price Contingencies             243.8   623.7   896.7  1281.9  1332.4  1393.3  5m.7  6056.4
..........................................................................
Total PROJECT COST#               3764.7  5985.2  6206.6  7230.3  6018.7  5362.0 34567.5 36272.3
Taxes                           127.8   194.3   182.9   221.2   167.7   144.3  1038.4  1089.6
Foreign Exchange               1893.0  3184.5  3090.6  3627.3  2656.2  2114.3  16565.9 17382.9
......... .................. .... ..... ................ .......,_
Vatues scated by 1000.0 4/2511992 8:43
a/ excluding Interest during construction
&14



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
MR0 SWALLUIOER OIL PALN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projects CoMponents by Yeer a/
totals Including Contingencies                               Totals Includtig Contingencies
KINA                                                           USS
1993    1994.   1995    1996    1997    1998   Total        1993    1994    l995    1996    1997    1998   Total
A. SN Oil Palm Dvelept           317.8   708.6  1237.2  1718.8  1780.8  1577.4  7340.5        333.5   743.5  1298.2  1803.6  1868.7  1655.2  7702.6
B. Extensmin Services
1. Extension Staff             72.5   174.9   238.4   316.9   376.6   397.3  1t76.7         76.0   183.6   250.2   332.6   395.2   416.9  1654.5
2. Extension tnfrastructure   130.8   406.3   290.5   305.7    33.7    28.2  1195.3        137.3   426.4   304.8   320.8    35.4    29.6  1254.3
3. Ext Veb./Equlip./Training  150.4   31s.2   106.8   192.3   218.7   128.7  1112.1        157.8   330.7   112.1   201.8   229.5   135.1  1167.0
Suk-total                        353.7   896.5   655.7   815.0   429.0   554.3  3884.2       371.   940.7   667.1   855.2   660.0   58l.6  4075.7
C. Agricultural Roads
1. Access Roads               175.3   763.4  808.6   889.4   530.0   416.4  3583.2         183.9   801.1   848.5   933.2   556.1   437.0  375s.9
2. Marvestin9 Roads           578.4  1115.7  1705.0  2219.7  1916.7  1600.1  9135.5        606.9  1170.?  1789.1  2329.1  2011.2  1679.0  9S86.0
Sib-Total                        753.7  1879.1  2513.6  3109.1  2446.6  2016.5 12718.6       790.9  1971.8  2637.6  3262.4  2567.3  2116.0 13345.9
D. Social Infrastructure
1. EdLaction                 S543.2   499.8    39.3   291.4    40.7    42.7  1457.1       s70.0   524.5    41.2   385.8    42.7    44.8  1529.0
2. mealtb a Security           67.4     9.4     9.8    11.7      8.8     9.2   116.3        70.7     9.9    10.3    12.2      9.3     9.7   122.0
Sub-Total                        610.6   s09.2    49.1   303.1    49.5    51.9  S573.4       640.7   534.3    51.5   318.0    52.0    54.5  101.0          £
E. Main Road lpqveobnt           134.8   688.3   527.3   154.1   161.2   168.7  1834.4       141.4   722.3   553.3   161.7   169.2   177.0  1924.9
f. Institutional Strength.
1. MIt Strengthening          521.9   501.2   532.7   218.1   230.0   242.5  2246.5       547.7   525.9   559.0   228.9   241.4   254.5  2357.3
2. Research Suqport           161.3    73.9    77.7   113.9    86.0    90.5   603.4        169.3    77.5    81.6   119.5    90.3    95.0   633.2
3. ePlc stremgthenirng        239.2   227.2   237.9   249.2   261.0   273.3  1487.8        251.0   238.4   249.7   261.5   273.8   286.8  1561.2
Sutrtotal                        922.5   802.3   848.3   581.2   577.0   606.4  4337.8       968.0   841.9   890.2   609.9   605.5   636.3  4551.7
6. Envsrom ental Protection
1. utterfly Conservation      618.9   446.4   338.5   296.7   313.3   323.6  2337.5       649.4   468.4   355.2   311.4   328.8   339.6  2152.8
S. technicat Assistance          52.8    54.8    56.8    58.9    61.1    63.3   347.7         55.4    St.S    59.6    61.8    64.1    66.5   364.8
1. Studies                        0.0     0.0      0.0   193.4     0.0      0.0   193.4        0.0     0.0     0.0   202.9      0.0     0.0   202.9
Total PRWECTS COSTS             3764.7  596.2  6206.6  7230.3  6018.7  5362.0 34567.5    3950.4   80.3  012.7  758.9  615.5  5626.4 362723
Values Scaled by 1000.0 4/25/1992 8:42
8/ excluding interest during construction
I.1



- 44 -
AN       '1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                                        Table  4
ORO SMALLHODER OIL PALM DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Sumcary Accounts Cost Sumiary  aI
KINA                                 U
..............................    .............................................................
Local  Foreign    Total          Local  Foreign    Total
,...............                    ...........................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................... .................... 
A. Civil Works
1. Bultdings                      1164.5    1164.5    2329.0          1221.9   1221.9   2443.9
2. Roads                          2472.5    7417.5    9890.0          2594.4   7783.3  10377.8
.............. ;.. . .... ...................................... ...........................
Sub-Total                            3637.0    8582.0   12219.0          3816.4   9005.2  12821.6
B. Equipment
1. Vehicles                          0.0      481.3      481.3           0.0    505.0    505.0
2. Equipment                       103.8      267.4      371.2         108.9    280.6    389.5
....................  ........:.    ....... .............................. ...............
Sub-Total                              103.8     748.7      852.5         108.9    785.6    894.5
C. SH Fleld Development
1. SH Own Labour                  2539.1        0.0    2539.1         2664.3       0.0   2664.3
2. SH Credit                      1974.3    1316.2    3290.4          2071.6   1381.1   3452.7
...... .................. .................    ...........................
Sub-Total                            4513.4    1316.2    5829.6          4736.0   1381.1   6117.1
0. Technical Assistance                 30.0     270.0      300.0          31.5    283.3    314.8
E. Training                           , 44.8      30.0       74.8          47.0      31.5      78.5
F. Studies                               0.0     193.4      193.4           0.0    202.9    202.9
................... ........................................... ...........................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               8329.0   11140.2   19469.3          8739.8  11689.7  20429.4
..............................      .............................................................
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Staffing
1. Extension Staff                1223.1        0.0    1223.1         1283.4       0.0   1283.4
2. Other staff                    1262.6        0.0    1262.6         1324.9       0.0   1324.9
3. Other staff (ols)               882.3      882.3    1764.5          925.8    925.8   1851.5
.......................           .... .......................................... ...................
Sub-Total                            3368.0      882.3    4250.3         3534.1    925.8   4459.9
S. ON
1. ON Vehicles                     267.0      511.9      778.9         280.1    537.2    817.3
2. ON Equipment                     10.5       10.5       21.0          11.0      11.0      22.0
3. ON Civil Works                  144.7      103.4      248.0         151.8    108.5    260.3
4. an Roads                        658.9      658.9    1317.7          691.4    691.4   1382.7
Sub-Total                             1081.0    1284.7    2365.7         1134.3   1348.0   2482.3
C. Operational Expenses
1. Office consunables              477.0      150.0      627.0         500.5    157.4    657.9
2. Travel expenses                 678.0        0.0      678.0         711.4       0.0    711.4
..............................      .............................................................
Sub-Total                             1155.0      150.0    1305.0        1212.0    157.4   1369.4
..............................    .............................................................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 5604.0    2316.9    7920.9         5880.4   2431.2   8311.6
.... i;;.           ............. ... ............................... Zi ........ ...............
Total BASELINE COSTS                 13933.0   13457.2   27390.2        14620.2  14120.8  28741.0
Physical Contingencies             488.9      916.6    1405.5          513.0    961.8   1474.9
Price Contingencies               3579.7    2192.1    5771.7          3756.2   2300.2   6056.4
..............................    .............................................................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 18001.6   16565.9   34567.5        18889.4  17382.9  36272.3
.............._., .. _.............                                   ............. ..... .........__
Values Scaled by 1000.0 -   4/25/199   8:51
a/ excluding during construction



- 45-                        ~ANNEX 1
Table 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                     Page 1 of 2
CRO SKALLNOWER OIL PAL DEVRLOPHENT ROJECT
Suamary Accounts by Year a/
Totals Including Contingencies
KINA
1993    1994    199       1996    1997    1998   Total
uuuuuEaumsuauuuuasuwarau-auinuuaaauuuan=uauuuug-uuuua:
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.   . Civl Works.....
I. Bultdings                    926.S   992.3   315.6   516.4        0.0      0.0  2750.8
2. Roads                        753.7  2413.4  2846.8  3016.7  2262.3  1539.4  12832.3
_Wawa==*=   ansU        Uw     WaaSU          a       wuUua
Sub-Total                         1680.2  3405.7  3162.5  3533.0  2262.3  1539.4  15583.2
S. Equipment
1. Vehictes                     110.9   162.4    14.3    91.0   110.3    19.2   568.1
2. Equipment                    218.7   118.0      8.2    61.7    15.2        6.7   428.4
suuuuuuuuuuauu wausu U=   uu      8
Sub-Total                          389.6   280.4    22.5   152.7   125.5    25.9   996.5
C. SH Fteld Development
1. SN Oun Labour                109.8   277.0   520.3   748.S   836.5   784.2  3276.2
2. SN Credit                    208.0   431.5   716.9   970.3   944.4   793.2  4064.3
Sub-Total                          317.8   708.6  1237.2  1718.8  1780.8  1577.4  7340.5
0. Technical Assistance             52.8    54.8    56.8    58.9    61.1    63.3   347.7
E. Trainfng                         41.0    12.8    13.5       9.2      7.4      7.8    91.8
F. Studies                           0.0      0.0     0.0   193.4       0.0      0.0   193.4
................i:.......i........................................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            2481.3  4462.3  4492.5  5666.1  4237.1  3213.8 24553.0
31. RECURRENT COSTS
;......'I...g.........
A. Staffing
1. ExtensIon Staff               72.s   174.9   238.4   316.9   376.6   397.3  1576.7
2. Other staff                  221.6   242.0   255.4   269.4   284.2   299.9  1572.5
3. Other staff (of1)            436.8   462.5   489.8   214.4   224.4   234.8  2062.7
-     wagmuU  u .i uUlainau-21sUu naa
Sub-Total                          730.8   879.5   983.6   800.8   885.2   932.0  5211.9
B. ON
1. ON Vehicles                  103.5   146.6   162.7   177.5   190.6   198.9   979.9
2. ON Equipment                   3.9      4.1     4.3      4.5      4.7      4.9    26.5
3. ON Civil Uorks                 7.1    19.2    33.0    85.6    93.1    90.5   328.6
4. ON Roads                     134.8   154.1   194.1   246.5   345.6   645.7  1720.7
____ w _~~~~aua_-muuuauaa= amuaauaamuu
Sub-Total                          249.3   324.0   394.1   514.2   634.0   940.0  3055.6
C. Operational Expenses
1. Office consxmbles            168.5   177.2   186.4    91.1    95.5   100.1   818.9
2. Trael expenses               134.7   142.2   150.0   158.2   166.9   176.1   928.1
Sub-Total                          303.3   319.4   336.4   249.3   262.4   276.2  1747.0
.. .,,,,..................................
Total RECURRENT COSTS             1283.4  1522.9  1714.1  1564.3  1781.6  2148.2  10014.5
_         _n_ ua =UauuufumuuuumuSSSU
Total PROJECT COSTS               3764.7  5985.2  6206.6  7230.3  6018.7  5362.0 34567.5
..................... ...............................................  _.............
Values Scated by 1000.0 4/25/1992 8:54
a/ excluding interest during construction



-  46 -                                             ANNEX  1
Table 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                        Page 2 of 2
ORO SMALLNOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumary Accounts by Year  a /
Totals Including Contingencies
US$
................................................................
1993     1994     1995     1996     1997      1998    Total
uuu----fn=uuuuau*-nuaa--uuauu-nw-----usf----na-muu---------u-
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. Civil Porks
1. Uultdings                     972.2  1041.3   331.2    541.9         0.0      0.0   2886.5
2. Roads                         r90.9  2532.4  2987.2  3165.4  2373.9   1615.4  13465.2
Sub-Totat                          1763.0  3573.7   3318.5  3707.3   2373.9   1615.4  16351.7
8. Equipment
1. Vehicles                      179.3   170.4    15.0        95.5    115.7     20.1    596.1
2. Equipment                     229.5   123.8        8.6     64.7    15.9       7.1    449.6
UU33UUuUuUUUu3umuuuuUU3=UgUZCUCSWUuuuUuuXSguuuuuuuuuu-g
Sub-Total                           408.8   294.2    23.6    160.2    131.7    27.2   1045.6
C. SH Field Development
1. SH Own Labour                 115.2   290.7   546.0   785.4   877.7    822.9  3437.8
2. SO Credit                     218.3   452.8   752.2  1018.2   991.0    832.3   4264.8
Sub-Total                           333.5   743.5  1298.2   1803.6  1868.7   1655.2   7702.6
0. Technical Assistance              55.4      57.5    59.6      61.8     64.1     66.5    364.8
E. Training                          43.0      13.5     14.2      9.7      7.8      8.2      96.3
F. Studies                            0.0       0.0      0.0    202.9      0.0      0.0    202.9
=i;;iT***i;       ^*K . ..............................................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             2603.7   482.3   4714.0  5945.5  4446.1  3372.3  25763.9
11. RECURRENT COSTS
..........n,g,.........
A. Staffing
1. Extension Staff                76.0    183.6   250.2    332.6   395.2   416.9   1654.5
2. Other staff                   232.5   254.0   268.0    282.7   298.2    314.6  1650.0
3. other staff (o/s)             458.3   485.3   513.9    225.0   235.4   246.4   2164.4
=--=w=E- 'u-m" As =sUa-- US 3*-gg:uuUUUUUUUUzuUuuUuUU
Sub-Total                           766.8   922.9  1032.1   840.3   928.9   977.9   5468.9
S. ON
1. ON Vehicles                   108.6   153.8    170.8   186.3   200.0    208.7   1028.2
2. ON Equipment                    4.1      4.3       4.5      4.7      4.9      5.2     27.8
3. ON Civil Works                  7.5     20.2    34.6       89.9     97.7     94.9   344.8
4. ON Roads                      141.4    161.7   203.6   258.7   362.6   677.6  1805.5
a#aJa"waaasWesau=   Mu= wammu zw=
Sub-Total                           261.6   340.0   413.5   539.5   665.2   986.4  3206.3
C. Operational Expenses
1. Office cansmumbtes            176.8    186.0    195.6      95.6    100.2    105.1    859.3
2. Travel expenses               141.4    149.2   157.4    166.0    175.2    184.8    973.9
Sub-Total                           318.2   335.2   353.0   261.6    275.4   289.8   1833.2
.......Y.........................i..........;......................
Total RECURRENT COSTS              1346.7   1598.0   1798.6   1641.4  1869.4  2254.1  10508.3
=I                          St UUZ UUUU U U U U = U U U U U   U
Total PROJECT COSTS                3950.4   6280.3   6512.7   7586.9   6315.5   5626.4  36272.3
................................................................................................
Values Scaled by 1000.0  4/25/1992  8655
a/ excluding interest during construction



PAPUA NEW WIU#A
CRO SIALLHOLOER OIL PALK DEVELOtPEUT PROECT
Finwncing Plan by Project Ca4vnents  a
usS
Iorid a"       Cwoerrent       Farsi            Totat              Local
F........   for.  (Exct.  Outies
Amoust    X     buoaa~t    X    AnSmt    X    Ainoumt   X     Exch.  Taxes)  & Tax.
A. SR Ol P.ati  evelopt      4094.2   53.2   170.6    2.2  3437.8   44.6  7702.6   21.2  1627.9  5904.1   170.6
S. Extension Staff            1071.3   64.8   583.1   35.2     0.0    0.0  1654.5    4.6      0.0  1654.5     0.0
C. Extensfon Infrastructure   1011.9   80.7   242.4   19.3     0.0    0.0  7254.3    3.5   597.0   607.2    50.2
0. Ext Veh./Equip./Trainlng    957.9   82.1   209.1   17.9     0.0    0.0  1167.0    3.2   823.5   290.4    53.0
E. Access Roads               3233.2   86.0   526.7   14.0     0.0    0.0  3759.9   10.4  2684.1   92S.3  1S0.4
f. Iarvesting Roads           8442.2   88.1  1143.8   11.9     0.0    0.0  9586.0   26.4  6938.1  2264.5   383.4
S. Edkcatfon                  1256.4   82.2   272.5   17.8     0.0    0.0  1529.0    4.2   756.0   702.4    70.5
H. leatth & Security           65.0   S3.3    57.0   46.7      0.0    0.0   122.0    0.3    57.1    59.8      5.1
I. Main toad Improvement      1544.5   80.2   380.4   19.8     0.0    0.0  1924.9    5.3  1181.3   666.6    77.0
J. DAL StretntheinsA 1786.1   75.8   571.2   24.2              0.0    0.0  2357.3    6.5   391.3  1929.9    36.1
K. Research Sqport             407.5   64.4   225.7   35.6     0.0    0.0   633.2    1.7   198.1   424.2    10.9
L. OPIC Strandwonfgq          1070.6   68.6   490.6   31.4     0.0    0.0  1561.2    4.3   675.9   873.2    12.1
M. Butterfty Conservatfon     1729.0   70.5   723.8   29.5     0.0 *  0.0  2452.8    6.8   921.2  1497.7   33.8
M. Technical Assistance        328.3   90.0    36.S   10.0     0.0    0.0   364.8    1.0   325.3      0.0    36.S
0. Studies                       0.0    0.0   202.9  100.0     0.0    0.0   202.9    0.6   202.9      0.0     0.0                                       I
.................... ;     ..... ............................................................................._. ..... ...  ... .X
Total Dlsbursement           26998.1   74.4  5836.4   16.1  3437.8    9.5 36272.3  100.0 17S82.9 177M9.9  1089.6                                       '4
_                    _                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Vaues Secaled by 1000.0 4/2511992 dn46
a/ excluding interest durlng construction
IF.



PAPUA EVWUINU
R00 SlULLtR OIL PALN OVLOPHT PROJECT
Flimacing Plan by ODsldrment Category a/
USt
World B3nk      Govenmnt         Fsrmrs           Total                Local
For.   (ExSc.  Outies
Macmt     X    Anawit     I    bAmowt    X    Amount    X        Exch.  Taus)  & Tax.
A. SN OW Labour                   0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0  3437.8  100.0  3437.8    9.5        0.0  3437.8      0.0
B. SN Credit                   4094.2   96.0   170.6    4.0       0.0    0.0  4264.8   11.8  1627.9  2466.3   170.6
C. Vehicles                     596.1  100.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0   596.1    1.6   596.         0.0      0.0
0. Eqai-                        382.1   85.0    67.4   15.0       0.0    0.0   449.6    1.2   322.3    59.8    67.4
E. Cll sufldings               2581.2   90.0   286.8   10.0       0.0    0.0  2868.0    7.9  1402.5  1350.8   114.7
f. D_t1c Training                96.3  100.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    96.3    0.3    33.2    63.1        0.0
C. Tednical Assistance          328.3   90.0    36.5   10.0       0.0    0.0   364.8    1.0   328.3        0.0    36.S
H. Of Vehles/Equpimt          725.6   68.7   330.3   31.3       0.0    0.0  1056.0    2.9   670.6   366.6    18.7
1. ON Civfl Works                 0.0    0.0   336.3  100.0       0.0    0.0   336.3    0.9   133.3   189.6    13.5
J. 0811 C Security                0.0    0.0    26.9  100.0       0.0    0.0    26.9    0.1    12.3    13.6         1.1
K. ON Roads                    1101.2   61.0   701.3   39.0       0.0    0.0  1805.5    5.0   866.0   867.3    72.2
L. cm Roads                   12118.7   90.0  1346.S   10.0       0.0    0.0  13465.2   37.1  9937.5  2989.1   538.6
N. Stff Salaries               3866.2   70.7  1602.7   29.3        0.0    0.0  5468.9   15.1  1049.4  4419.5        0.0
N. Office Comables                0.0    0.0   432.7  100.0       0.0    0.0   432.7    1.2   200.6   214.8    17.3
0. Treal Expses                 681.6   70.0   292.3   30.0       0.0    0.0   973.9    2.7        0.0   934.9    39.0
P. Mouse Rentats                426.6  100.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0   426.6    1.2        0.0   426.6      0.0
0. Studles                        0.0    0.0   202.9  100.0        0.0    0.0   202.9    0.6   202.9       0.0      0.0
.,,,,  , * .... ...... . ................. .. . .... ..... . ......................
Total Disbursent              26996.1   74.4  516.4   16.t  347.8    9.5 36272.3  100.0 17382.9 17799.9  1089.6
.......................... ....................................................... ..... ........ ............. ...................... ... ................. ............. 
Valtm Sealed by 1000.0 4/25/1992 8:46
aI excludlg Interest during construction
SlE



- 49 -
PAPUA ME GUINEA
010 SIIALIODER OIL PhI DVEYLO?NKNT PROJECT
EstLmate Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Projected Disburseaents        Profile (%)
lank Fiscal                ------------------------------   ----------------
Year       Semester   Incremental   Cumulative    %      PIG 1/ Region 2/
FY93         Second         0.3           0.5       1        1       0
Y94          First          1.5           1.8       7       3        3
Second         1.7           3.5      13       7       6
FY95         First          2.7           6.2      23      12       10
Second         2.7           8.9      33      21      18
FY96         First          2.5          11.4      42      30       26
Second         2.6          14.0      52      39      34
FY97         First          2.8          16.8      62      47      42
Second         2.8          19.6      73      57      50
FY98         First          2.3          21.9      81      67       58
Second         2.2          24.1      89      77      66
FY99         First          1.5          25.6      95      86       78
Second         1.0          26.6      99      94      86
FY2000       First          0.4          27.0     100      98       94
....... .. ...... .... ................... ...... ................ .............................. .....
1/ Agricultural projects La PFG
2/ Agricultural projects In Asia



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ORO SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizatlon Chart
R &              IM  PL        E         L                                                    D iDA   
General Secretary
(Project Manager)
I  I                                         1/~~~~~~
Director         General          MaagrDirector                                           Senior           Senor
Dlrector   MnManager                                                  Pi            Offier asaerl ger
1/     1               ~~~~~~~~Dpfvts~ I /  Oficr         ffce
Field Project
Manager 2_                         - r 1--a
S ~~~                                   ___    __                I                  I 
Research           HopPL           H                                                       Provincial   Conservation
Staff 2/r StaftTaP                                                                         Manager       Project
~~~~2/      2tar 2/                                                                     2/    manager 2/
Oil Palm         Process SH       Purchase&         Fleld Development    DAL             Roads &         Butterfly
Research         crop.           transport SH      8& Project             Institutional   Infrastructure  Conservation
Market palm      crop.             Coordination          Strengthening
oil products     Process Inputs.
Administer SH
loan accounts
I/ Members of the Natlonal Oro Project Management Committee                                                               I
2/ Members of the Provinclal Oro Project Coordination Committee



- 51 -                                            AANh  5
1992               Otiloomm offoaiets, pwcr_mst    Srz  Crop                                      6.0
Mt  ioweemuu  uvranamas               uac
btaft Ueamt,mouts W** p-str
ad budget for 195
199           WaoApril            Plnting program, Butterfly              Tre  Crops             10.0
Consealon, toads, Audltia              F_ina    l
Enviroament
Civl Engineer
1993         0otIoil              Work prorm and budget for               Tree CropS             10.0
994, MIS, DL str.ngths4ug              Finacia
Institution
----------------------------------__---__-----------------,_-_--__------------___------------------------
1994         KarohlApnil          Plantin  progrm. proour..snts           Tre Crop               10.0
dibursemnt, envirament,                Fino&aI
199  Accouns                            Inviroomnt
_____________.____________._________.__________________.______________________________________.__._________
1994     O    otlEn               Work program an budget for              Tree CopS               6.0
195, lufxra rtur                       FSinani
Civil  ngieer
1995         NA April             Plantin  pro8rm, 1994 Aonts             Tre Crops               8.0
1995          actiNov             Wor program  an buget for               Tr" Crops              12.0
1996 - i  TaoS  ROieV                  F4inan1l
M:
Civil1 hine
1996           arcbhlApril        Planting program, 195 Accounts          Tre Crp                 6.0
Financial
_______ _______ ___..._______ _______ ______ _______ _______ ______ _______ ___-___ ___.__ ___.___ ______
1996          ct/Nov              Work program and budget for 197         Tree Crops              6.0
financial
199I"?       NAMWApril            Planting program, 1996 Acooguta        TSre Crop.               8.0
tavironmant
19"          OctGoIv              Work program and budget for 1998,       Tr  Crops               8.0
Infrastructure                         FLna iol
Civil Engineer
1996          NrmoAlhpril         Planting program, 1997 Aocuants         Tree Crop               6.0
pinanclal
1996         oet/Now              DLburasments                            Tree Crops              6.0
Financial
1999         Mareb/April          PB                                      Tree Crops             10.0
FinAncLal
Environment
Civil Bn8ginr



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ORO SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1993         1994         1995          1996         1997          1998
4  1  2  3  4          1   2 1 3  4  1  2t314  1   2  314  11 2  31 4  1  2  31  4-
SN Oil Palm Development
New Blocks Popondetta area
New Blocks Kokoda area 
Reserve Land
Harvesting/Processing
Construction Agricultural Roads
Access Roads Popondetta Area
Access Roads Kokoda Area
Harvesting Roads Popondetta Area   11_1_1_111_111!111_ 
Harvesting Roads Kokoda Area
Construction Social Infrastructure           _            _
Upgrading Main Road
Environmental Protection
HOPPL's Solid Waste Relocation
HOPPUs Effluent Treatment Upgrading
Butterfly Conservation                              _     _    ___
Instituginal Strnthe__ning
.                                  _-     _                         _..                              .      .     _
___  __  ___  __  __  ___   __  _                                            i   1   iI     LJ1.                           I    0'rCrr 



PDL%NCL%L FARM OAKM FR9ZS
199      am9      399      299      199      to9       999      999      mm0    2001       202    2003        204     2 202001    2 202008    209    2019    2011    Zf12
I capt o9s5at89ms               239.00   220.0    22A8      MM.0   2WAS   224.20   238.80          A      M. 211.40  oo     [N.  198.00    m.   asuc             MOD m   1s m.o   MAO   1ms          W83O   MAO        mi
20CU (VA 1910118) NO W65.1    351.8    51.5   13.22   15.9    142.71   21.4                      MU.2   317.95   110.1   302.4    29S.02   287.8   239.711   23.73    279.73   239.73    239.71   239.71   273.71   22.73
I AftAMII b=(4%)                 14A69    14.06    14.06    14.1     14.04    1M.7      113.1    13.05    12.12    12.41    12.91    11.8      9140    91.19    19.391    11.19    91.39    11.99    99.99    9149    1IU9
4 011.1940W(2.)                 379.98   365.44   U65A    17.59   M6A8   356.42   347.84            3S XW 12L.5 13.?    2.2   314.7?   100.82   298.8    29092   290.92   290.92   290.2   290.9    290.9    20.9   2MA9
9-
S 1u9g%                   s0    40.8      60.0     M0A8    I0.00    O0.0       I0S00    "0a0    a0.          0     450.0    a0.m      G0.A     60 60    6000     4000     MA0      6.00    W0.A       GOA     4.0        00
6 fz~~~~~                0.91     0.m      0.n       0.A      0.m      am8      0.8       0.8      Om       0c78     0.76     0.74     0.72     8.70     0.78      0.70     0.10     0.a      0.70     0.70     0.70
7 8s48mp                          1.90     3.8      9.81     Is?      1.8)      9.70     3.74     1.78     1.45     3.69      9.37     1.5      1A0      1.45     9.45     9.45     9.45      9.A5     53       1A5      3.45
8 Coua.i                          I.90     3.85     3.A1     9.8      18         .78     9.74     1.70      US6    3.6        I?       I.5      9.49     3.45     9.4A     94  1.45  3A .45            14       IA5      lAS
9 same 11b                        947      9.7      3.5      o.52      L.57      .57     am3      157      1.5      9.57      942      I.3      gm5      3.5      3.7      I.7       .5       9.47     1.5      3.?       .57
l0~~~pghs~~~~            9.05IA   9.05      3.0S     305      9.05     3.05      .05      .05      1.05      .05     3.05     Am0      9.05      .04     9.05      3.85     1.05    3OA       55       1OAS.0
47.14    67.36    SO.34    61.26    67.9S    47.05    66.94    648       48L73    46.6     6463    66.41    664        66.2     462      4.23    66.21    "M.2      46.2      646.3    NW.2
liI OSoh7 (188                  312.61   218.48    MA.4    30.3    297.8    289.11   200.90   272.4    261.94   2564       248.24   2401    n21.4   224.4    224.4    224.4    224.6    224.4    2144    224.II  224.6
l2 FM an ft3 a*                 297.92   284.4    34.4    291.91   283.8    273.7?   267.69   259.9    51.514   244.0    2364.5    22940   221AI   214.331   214.11   214.913   214.31   214.91   214.13   294.913   214.9
Ilbuag-                           am'00    0.00     8.0      0.0      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.3      0.00     0.00     0.0       0.00     0.3      0.4  8.00 Gm       .60     0.00     0.3      0.0       0.0      0.0
14Vbdapaaes                       2.40     2.40     2.40     2.40     2.40      2.40     2.40     2.40     2.40     2.40     2.40      2.40     2.40     2.40     2.40     2.40     2.A0     2.40     2.40      2.40     2.40
as5aw"P&Ha                       SAS.4     0.48      .4  0.46     0.46     0.46     0.46          0.48,.4 0.46 A         0.46     0.46     0.4    8 0.46          0.48 0.4   8 0.46      0.46         0.AS     0m        0.4
t61.36mwp71a.                     2.24     2.24     2.24     2.24     2.24      2.24     2.24     2.26     2.24     2.24     2.24     2.24      2.24     2.24     2.24     2.24     2.2      2.24     2.24     2.2       2.24
97GnjIqUa~~~~~~~~        7.73     7.18     7.18      7.581    7.3      7.16     6.95     6.74      6.51      3  6.14 6.94?S                     S.1 5.95  5.75 56  5456 546 16        546     546  56           5.56
12.8     92.4     12.48    12A68    12.4  192.216    OM0        19.84    1341    33E.44    33.24    119.0     90.8     WAS    1046    90.66    WAS8   10.66    90.66    90.6           10.66
98Ngk.a~~~~~~w~         295.08   271.97   219.97   23.25    271.8   26343    255.44   247.27 2193 239       2.42   225.3)   2138.04   210.76   20.47   202.47   203.47   2011.47   201.47   29147   201.47   201.47
I907(9M2MM0                     I"89,   100  49.00   960.0    178.   804 1     8040 A  180.28   967A0   167400   144.4    M624    160.40    3.2    956.00   956.60    93.3   ISSAS0  136.00   956.00   356             936.0
2S01(4141932 96Sfj              229.29   227.76   244.38   259.8    258.94   238.05    257.99   236.99   255.28   251.93   2484      245.19,  241.82   2184    228.48   238.4    228.48   228.46   2284    238.48   2M.4
21 FMi*                   lb    90.0       0.0    90.00m   90.00    90.0       900      90.0      8.A00    90.0    90.00    9040    90.00    90.00    90.00    90.0 040            9040OD   9040    90.A00    9000    98.00
322   u                           0.55     0.55     0.19     0.63     0.62      0.62     0.62     0.62     0.61     0.69     0.4       0490    0.581    0.57      0.57     0.5      0471    0.57      0.57     0.3       0.57    L
238.Sa.p                          9.13     3.14     8.22     9130      1.29     l.9       a.2     I.25     9.8        .26     9.24     13.2     9.29     9.31     3.99     9.99     U.9       3.99     39 .9 3.9 ti      .19   1.
24cam 1.                          2.29     2.2      2.45     2.40     2.591    2.38      2.57     2.58     2.55      2.52     2.A9     2.45     2.42     2.18     24811    2.8      248      248      2.18      248      2.28
258433a.Ezm                       0.32     0.52     0.3      0.32      042      0.m      0.512    0.52     Gm5      0.5       0.m      04S2     0.32     0.52     0.5      0.5      0.3      0.52     0.52     0.32      0.5
94.52    94.4     94.7     95.0     95.A      9302    95.00)   94.981   94.9      9MI9   94          94.79    94.7)    9Ka6    94A6    94A6    9448        944 94.68         94.48A   94A8
26 391S0i.8irt(158              134.7?    A".2    140.70   344.8    345.9    961.09    94.I9   949.21   960.32   157.00   953.70   950491  347.09   143.79   143.79,  943.79   941.79   143.73   143.3   141.79   94179
27 VOS&.by0~~~~~)       928.44   927.01942.75   357.0    9S6.23    135.15    954.4    15.6    932.77   149.62   146.4   941.25   140.98   937.0    917.0    937.01337.0    117.03   337.0    9374               MA.0
2$3ap-L-w                         0.3      0.0      0.0 .40            0.00"    0.00      A0      0.0      040      0.0       0.00     0.40     0.3      8.A      0.00     0.0      0.0       0.3      8.0      0.00     0.0
29Wbafagommi                      2.3  .0       2    .00O    240       2.0O     24  2.00      2.00         2.08I    2.0       2.00     2.00     240      2.00     2.00     2.00     2.00      2.00     240      2.0      2.0
10SIMAHg.*e                      90.21    10.21    90.2      98.29    30.29    30.29    90.29    90.29    10.2      90.21    30.21    30.23    30.23    98.2     90.2     90.22    90.2      90.29    90.2     30.29    90.2
31 IME.&mpOFs.                   90am     3049      90.2  10 304      1.59    3049      10.59    90.5      3049    3049    904        3049 .9049    30.59    90.59    90.38    905            0459    904      304      304
12c"uOft"*                        13i      3.10     1.79      440      4.06     4.03     4.01     2.99     3*07      1*       3.80     3.72     3.641    236      3456     1456               SAS14    346      1154     53
2- 6.33  2-- V0    26.5      2 26     26.a8    2681    26.8       26.7     26.7     x64       26.60    26.52    26.44    264      2646    2RE       264      264      264      2mm       286
31ft4g      "in                 103.20   900.93    116.2    920.9   129.35   921842    32748    126.*4   926.0    12.914  19396    336.49   991.74   930.67   990.67   110.6    390.67   990.4    99.6    990.6    930.6
347548Ad                         61.29    3.47     381.47    4004     53.5    56.4      54.96    51.2      51IA     30.0     4845    46.8      45.11    41.      41.75    431.5    41.15    41.75    41.75    41.75    41.75
3151G~IMO                         .93      SA0S     3.8I     6.33    6c4        6.10     64       6434     640      SA35      3.99     5.84    5SA9      5.53     5.3      S.S31   3S51      542       5.3      54       5
36 c *wwou                       66.43    am4    642        66.35    448       43.0     614      39.61    37.481   56.16    54.44    52.72    59.00    448   40.28    49.29    49.28    49.28    0.3           49.28    49.31
37?Tsmf                           9400     9.00     940      940      9.00      940      9.0      9.00    9OA       940       9.00)    9.00     9.00     90.01    9.00     9.00    9PA       9.0      9.8       940      940
38G0,.m  14aOt           940      94 9.      00     940 9.00 9.00     9.00#D    O        9.08     940      9.00    9OA        9.00     9.00.    9.0      9.00     9.0      9.0      9.00     940      9.0      9.00     9.0
39mm I4 fcm46 a                   8.00     840      8.00     8.3      8.00      8.00     8.3      8.0      8.00     8.3      8.0       8.00     8.00     8.3      8.00     8.00     8.00     SA00     8.3      8.00     8.3
40Dqod3aa                         4.25     4.13     4.25     4.25     4.25      4.25     4.25     4.23     4.25     445      4.1       4.23     4.25     4.25     445      4.25     4.2      4.25     4.2      445      4.2
49 boom iaphd                     6.6      6*0      640      4.8      6.A       6.0      6.0      6.4      6.0      6.0      6.3       6.8      6.8      6.80     6.8      6.31     6480     6.80     6.3      8.80     6.80
0.m      0.88     OA8      0.8      0.88     0.6       0.3      OA       0.8      0.3      Om8       0.80     MU       0.8      0.8      0.A      0m       0.8      08       08       040
37.9     37.95    3 37.    379       79       7 37,79 93           3    37.93    3.9)    37.9)      317.93    37.93    17.9     17.9)    31.93    37.93    OM.9     37.93    37.931    7.9"-
431weh9abd                       3.4      24       264      28.6     26.89    25.9      23.42    21A      19.03    98.2      14.53    14.79    31.07    9946    99465    It."      9143    9946       3.35    1145s    13.5
d48mdB .h22*                     94.24    92.79    11.3     14U1    ISM4    1249        11.71    O08        .97     9.11    8a2       749       642S.    5.6      3.67     5.6      1.87     5.6      5.6      5.6      5A
45facn                           25 3.26    21.79    22.98    23.3   22.S    23.58    20.71    19U8    38.97    98.99    97.25    1448         15 4.6?    14.4            14.6     14.67    34.67    34.6      94.4     9W
46bcwwft                         25.2     22.9     24.8     17.      27.90    28.20    28.53    28.8      29.12    29.33    29.47    29.35    2942    29.41    59.05    22.76    1446        .16.4   18.4     404      41.8
of Smm  ftse   S. 99992 W.3M k49doinI9
VC.u,6iU.461         21.0.   a0.3
d hl.d.audamai.~.Sol.5
Jis ~aMi9im.6M1



COIA AJIIBUULPAI2NV3.OMWIGOM
rsJsgYen                                      1        2         S         4        S         6         7         S        9         to        I        12        is        14       is 1U               1?        is       19        3
ry..                                        IM        1951      199I      19       19        198       IM        2S       21        202       250      20        2         259      20?       200       20       256       31       31
1!_FfW                                          0         a         s        la    16    Is    19    19 to                     1    U            n         16    u.    Is    as                  u         14 u4 u 
tr"6o3       m 2b)                              0         0        to        26        22        14       38        34       1         24        24        32        2        20        IS       2         I         28       2         26
93t?w1mm7                                    287 1S 2.          23 12.44            2340      20_      *8        IL"      1f2.3     1?S       I6*       I.        4         4?       34        846      I"?    1Ka         146        K46?
_m    00.)                                    0m       OA      22810       .A      6*A    74.5        MO        7L26    63.4         6.      5AS    40.12   4640    4482            4.        400       MA    OM            MO         .S
0omew_ok                                        6
1humlt8                                         0        10    to
_im                                            20S       54        54       46        34        as        n        n         n         2        n         n2        32         2       1          2        n        1         3         2
a       'a                  O                            @         S        tD ZD X 0  0  0  86  30  23   IS       IS        IS        IS       IS        IS        IS         0        s        IS        30       Is        24        30
TlW I_fpmwl)                                   80    64    64    62    64                                 n         n2   a2    n                 12        2    n             n2    #            n         a        52    a             St
L1woom                        24            265      8S.16       6.       51.X    1J.6    2"4 12 30              2A       3         SUM       M                           12648 1   I  122  32M  MA 1326           J 2   1264    8i1
on_)                                        UN
0 . Cs0                                      24
F_                                           6.0      9040      900       90      130        120A 1       A     12SM      INA       120      12MO      I2M    12           1204A    1240    A2"0         M0           0    IM        M
N a                                          IQI to     U        NMB    lOAD
C_.(80S)                                     46.54     32.27    3I.20     10.90     120       1640    1324        3        86.50     124      16.00     16.3      1248     164       16.3      12.0       64      16.3      324       NM
Su10^_*pf3 311.94    39.70    U7.2D    319.90    122                                        I388.      1M2.00   180    I88D           21      1784     183I    I2.D    17640    ISJ.0    *22.0    3640    63840    32.0              3Le
Lbcom                                      2M 2    161         856A      1.28    3.L16    34.26 11  26.4    1264         1268 1268              t    1264  26   lS 1264   36       12648    I2         34       1264          A     I
T1u                                         75.6    286    2.6    278.10    28.16    313.70   2                 207.8    S2         23S4     3IS       31*J   2384S   20A4    31.2            284       2S0          *     M234    S2
so n                                       -17      -28546    -9         26.4      406    442    4.33    42               2.6        27.7    2343S    18.74    20.71    W."            M      IS 7    3l2n.0    1M0  52    12.6        8M6?
1I11.b-dftgumdNgb                            20.31
IX



?AI'UA1 EEOUKI
amsLtLt LoR am FA-  ovLwar D-ojrno
UIALLMOL8U3 CASH FLOW 1PIDJfl005 I
C w80Kbt
osjSdYt    -                                   2        3       4 -         S             7 i S           9        10      11      12       13      W4       IS      16      Wi      1i s        -
abadYe                                I__      a,     IM       199    t90S    1am        Ing    ace    a01   2a           200a    20as     2as     2006    ass    a0W    ass    at0    2D            an
0       0        5      13       46      to       It9     £0      Is      1£       t       14 to            15       tS       4      14 t     U               83
To h O                          O       10        a       £0      24      a        x6      3        38   1           4       34      3       311              20       21     23                26      26
_~~~~~~~~s                            ono   m.n a    ms         s.  :.mo   '1)   8.106*  *.oss.ss7 8,002.8  8.00453   ss.ia   94.9  .3.5                 9617  8,02. 90 1,1.13  .552  s8.18n
eIdw                                   O       o*A    23.7£    4.2X    9216  17.9M  8." 1006.   .106.  I.,15A    0.£LII  0.5    945.12   2.90   "SAO   MA2   967.7   ."   1.M5   .05   5.1m
452.35    3*     67.17   182*      0A      am       U0    3*t    sk.1        0A    19.2    94t.      0am    9.S    1A          0*    19        2.l2    0A9   t"
nses   1224    12.17   I         £M1       .0   1MA.0   32        22.2   2A         37s   2 25.4    42 2        *   29S4       S     379   34." 0WS    MA    3.4
Uwmae~~~                    SOLpM     S @5340)00 I13    586.1     129           MM X034.0     90.2 i.    WAS*  3M7.1    s.s*    4nj4   sin2AS   ms9          .i   mN.3   4Mi         sMO    m
-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
emkk4m_            "t        e 1       WI   OUA#  OtA    SIL#  2O                 MM        MMJ0 tNL       MA        ?X    3 X17.14   00.21 $7 7J4.#X4 MA L SU7   O2                             M6S   *L
_                                                                                                                                                                                                             IA
I__                                   ni  SI   Ia
ca%ad"ban                    2la      n7IS   124
3_*    £5*.0   396*
=~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                  44      a 6i             a        a       a-      5i ---S  51              it       a 52        St -$   2    5       SI      it       52      St
__~~~~~~~~~~~G    Oam                         OAD  fJI         iis      MO    12;      117        _       .      ISM     IIA     13       WS    11l.11    OA       S1|   7I        Ltu      O
U_Zlf ~ ~ ~ ~~~401    905.20   34.92
.~~~~~1 514 99
,~~~~~1  7.6£29
~~              368.3   39.15  8*4.60~~~~~~~~~~~
I..



PAPtIA NEW GOWNUA
080 MLLUWER OIL PAIN OELaFPNET PRWECT
............................................
Economic Analysis
....*.............
..........................................................................................................................................................................
1993   1994    19"      1996    199    1998   1999    20        201    2        2       2004    2005    2eo6    2007    2008    2009    201
..........................................................................................................................................................................
turn cmr
................
Sa  I1  al-s ometIt         22S.2  466.8   73.7  1058.2  115.5  1100.8
Extmns    Slees             304.4  737.2   488.3  S99.1  442.3  360.3
Arlicltural  1e             511.3  947.3  1390.2  178.0  1440.3  1150.4                      -            -           -           -       -       -       -
Socil Infrtru tu            259.8  207.2    19.2  112.5    17.3   17.3           -       -                        -       -               -       -
lain Road Upgraing           28.8  145.0  106.3    28.6    28.8   28.8           -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -
Resch $npot                 140.4    58.9   58.9   86.2   56.9   58.9   -                        .        - -   -                 -       .       -
oPEC Strentheing             52.0    47.6    47.6   47.6   47.6   47.6
....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ............... ....... ....... ....... ......
Total I,westuent costs     1521.9  2610.0 2874.2  3670.3 3220.7 2764.2           -                        -       - .                     - .  .                  -
WEIUTI  COST
............... ............... 
SNlOIl Pal                       -       -                                   ? % -   794.1  790.5  786.S  787.1  191.3  790.1  7M.5  793.5  793.S  79.s  79.s  M9. sn
EIxtmIIn 5,lov                   -       -               .                   169.6  169.6  169.6  169.6  113.1  113.1   113.1  113.1  113.1  113.1   113.1  113. ^
Afritural oads                           -       -               -       -   110.6  110.6   110.6  110.6  110.6  110.6  110.6  110.6  110.6  110.6   110.6  110. I
Social Infrstructuro             .       -       .       .       -       -    17.3   17.3    17.3   17.3   17.3   17.3    17.3   17.3   17.3   17.3    17.3   17.
Hlon Road Upgrding               -       -       -       .       -       .   28.8    28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8    28.S    28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.
Resec  Supt                                                                   1 -  *  -  -    14.7   14.7   14.7   14.7    14.7    14.7   14.7   14.7   14.7   14.7   14.7   14.
OPIC Strengtniong                                                             2       2 -  23  23.    2.8   23.8    2.8   23.8   23.8   23.8   23.8 23.8 23.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......    ......... .......   ................... .......... ..
Total 4eratiwe Costs             -       -       .       .       -        -  1158.9  1155.4  1151.3  1151.9  1099.6  1098.4  1101.8  1101.8  1101.8  1101.8  1101.8  110t.
TOTAL COStS
Total Costs                1S21.9  t610.0  2874.2 3670.3 3220.7  2764.2  1158.9  155.4  1151.3  1151.9  1099.6  1098.4  1101.8  1101.8  1101.8  1101.8  1101.8  1101.
NEMFITS
Sallholder Oil Pol Prod                     128.4  S20.8  1209.8  2163.9 3195.6  4065.3  4528.1  4580.S  4405.8 4108.7 3m.s  3640.9  3526.5  3422.2  3307.8 3220.
Total Benfits                               I -   128.4  520.8  1209.8  2163.9  3195.6  4065.3  4528.1  4S80.S  440S.8  4108.7 3775.5  3640.9 3526.5  3422.2 3307.8  3220.
NET UEFkTS
............ ........... 
Net genefits              -152.9 -2610.0 -2745.7 -3149.5 -2010.8  -600.3  2036.7  2910.0  3376.7 3428.6 3306.2  3010.3  2613.7 2539.1  2424.7  2320.4  2206.0 2118.
........................................               ...............................................................................................................
3/20/1998 15:17
IRR -  12.4%
0 



Prosent Values of Not Strem at a Dlec&A%t ae  of 10.0X
BMWTO    UP 1m    UP 20X   UP 5X DOW 10X am11 20X OWII 5NW
CtOt 189744S.6 3731314.6 5565183.61106670.7  "576.6-1770292.4-   9.S
UP 10t 253321.1 2087190.2 3921059.2 9422666.2-158047.9-3414416.9-8916023.9
UP 203-13900"3 44305.7 2276934.7 ?784.8-322672.3-5058541.4-105S0148.4
UP St4-62176.T-489307.T-265543B.7 2846168.4-81S7045.7-99914.7-154S21.8
NWa 103 3541570. 537539. 720938.12710915.1 170771.0 -126168.0-562777.0
SOM 203 S169.5 7019543.5 8853432.614355S39.6 3351825.5 I51756.5-390.6
WAi 5031011806.91951936."13M860.919287413.0 828196.9 6450329.9 94872.8
3170      LSI    18 62    16 3
CITO 189744S.6 230291.9-125302.3-263115.2
UP 1X 2521.1.1413832.5-2929426.7-430 3.7
UP 20-139083.3-305M7.0-457351 .2-5951364.1
UP   -m4316.7-790330.3-9505924.6-106837.5
DOWI10 IOX 3541570.1 14416.4 352.2-101890.
OaM 20X 5185 J. 3518540.9 2002946.6 625W.?
OaM 5010911807.9 450914.2 69350.0  55507.1
LA          - 1724950.5 2093.3-1168456.6
LA6 2                 - 1568136.9 1902.9
LAO 3       .             -      1425S79.0
Intral Rates of Returm  of Not Streom
1MW      UP 103   UP 20    UP 503 OSM  103 NW111 20X  WA 50X
Celow   12.428   14.572    6.561   21.8"    10.085    7.479   -3.676
UP 103   10.308   12.428   14.3B5   19.551    7.976    5.358   -6.458
UP 20X    8.382   10.492   12.428   1T.506    6.04S    3.392   -9.453
UP 5OX    3.392    5.543    7.479   12.428    0.940   -1.96      NW
WU  10X   14.800   16.984   19.019   24.457   12.428    9.810   -0.931
SoW 20    1r.506   19.749   21.846   27.482   15.065   12.428    1.903
OM SOX   29.192   31.788   34.239   40.908   26.421   23.435   12.428
3Moos0   LAS 1    12    LAO 3
CTT01   12.428   10.257    8.718    7.572
w 10X   10.308    8.502    7.221    6.268
UP 203    8.382    6.904    5.656    5.078
UP 50X    3.392    2.766    2.332    2.013
OM  10X   14.800   12.209   10.379    9.01?
DMW 203   17.506   14.417   12.250   10.642
SOM  50U    29.192   23.697   19.992    17.302
LAG I       -   12.428   10.257   t8is8
LA 2        *12.420   10.257
1863.       -                      12.428



PIAUANEWGUWA
OESKAUOLDMOLPAIM D1VMCWWW1RWF
A _m=SWJWdmmw_
4__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
*sAt&                       2198       589         4998       130         2t=        30.3       30os        3905     21J8         9                                              m7  9   A0  3        M mJUN
006aM* hP~                   2$.03      33.460    350.93      23.26      2*600    200.600       2*00.      2*0        200600     2*0         MM        20*600      MM        30.60      30.60      20M6        20k0      300
kp~Ssmwt          33.60   Mtw    30*3   3463   *403   *0600 *0 *000 3600   *6w    300    *60    *6n    *06001   *60M    *0    *0    AG60   *06
em&a" sho                    $KM S20        32. 44  6.66      48U8       451.12     595.0       465.2 3 W.45    134145U   14.               439,965     43.40?    321.638    '3.16       0.52       9S".33       u 342 2 33.6
3.60.6       =.S3? ,.5             MM4    14.2 849                  73S.293    40A5        4W        4096       3MDAO63    48         322         3324    30532    355.33          40=        5A6
222.3      30.107     23A4       1339.30    343.0       1.,2       216.312    4.4        565.14       0.47     43.08    653.852    4.            MGM6,      MS        Uk.3S7      3200       M9.D
8.985     MM42       33.38      24.7       26.23       27.60     127.50      3$.30      3.00       39.60        .  30.0  *60   *00             41 .9      40.273      503        29.30      X.50
233.00     321.323     MM440     343,92     30.38       1206       33.42      4340.40    W6.S34    4M.M        46U3,8    463.85       3.88      36.522    U%7.24    85AIS    72388          623.3
Tau3As                       32.6   10.4a 8   3.6232   .00.1                162.411    916.39    1.3 1.    3.04I. 5l"   3.GM21    3.028.7    1.04350    1.107.49    1.19"    1.11.26    .02        8.20.05    I.3.07    3.0.9    I
LA
P_    -w4m l                   .83m      23n2        M.6       34.0)       37.838     3390       27.68      28.43?      4336      32.33      16.39      333        39.34?     35.5?      25.64      34.343      10.W       393
Cmua *ACM                    SISA8       4.502    22.M9 23.3)            L3.0        5.        3600    Is3*6         150.0      Is3.       3*60    l30.6    130.60           506       3*60        He.0       3AM       3*00
5574       t39.6t4    25         28.13      380.0IS    2089        307.968    2*6l1    386.836    19.176    398509    213.t64    199.14          MM57      2.695       M4.        393        3.2
1aco                         "%M        okee       68DoD       M.ON      6eob        6^0D,ZO               ooo 6Meo  6Z,EOD    60^II         eslom     a%=e   6a%lO          6mll       6^"D        atop,    doom
ho42s  1awA "                3 3        23.96       08.434    12012        2. 13%M   168.190    23.450    S358    223.463    213.S40    2WM14    243.,6           20           4.719     4.M       39.12 JS  M           46.4
4.4?7       3.0       S88.414     *82    "32.30"       3 90    80.430          3.3    8A6           633,40    84 4    83.485    g32    9*4.39n   944ns                9.735        MM. 14    60.
ThIhUMWS         *V         3.323.386   t.W65    1.6422   3.06.510   932.413    91.49             1.3,48   3,042.315   .0O8.   13.60216   I,04.0    .MG.4S9   1.107.519   1.11O.t6   t.150.2W    1.9.Q6  3.3.02n   .021
F'P



APfUAN"rU
olto SUULD811 OIFL P1gD TVLniNP
IWnWTRAWu m T 1umD
mpbwAc>_ra                    7302       70n11      72.223     74.20      79>6       OV4        OX7        8Sn0       SSU    , .24         11#,2  ,0.            2.         llt, 1. tSX0   1S 1             107A7    1050
mis^<roo                      73.G       0.111      am         71.70     n77.70      so         s2,eo      s,50      ".00       S30>       zTdk      121.408    1271e0D    12.300    12U10       llbl4D    ttAtD      "mm
O"Sdggil_                   740        7SQ74      64S.430    *IIM       821,9"     841.90     On         9241t   9M,9        1,140.O    11WS"8   1",190  IJK6    Iffr.US    _4tn6   tJ4fM9   ID7.611   1.%
Cdb      ut_Cw               4K221      4fl,74S    4G9,4G1    4,440    47S,S    424,917    4307S4    fD4t47          M,95      677,677    t4tJS7    939,2n   I.43lt=    1,ES7A9   tm40,4    1,t46   1,7,16f  LGDI 
E_bo Cu                       Am,   23.M   <4046               61,77U     013        67,6S 66i441          7Q.2       74,S       79,132     sabso     SB913      too   9f,190          9.-<4      97,t0      *$n       WASS
SOWWCO                        34,112     33,26t     41.0"      4"4DD      21,7#4     23.lZ      214.<      2bSfJ      27.4       29.1"      AN$s    32.7         34.n6      35.04      JS4Af       S.f       3O7ss      Am4
Ad*   wo_                2We67    219S,fl       WAS,9     2ftf       267,XSS     WU?26     2P.731      MIbSS    3346D        M,3n      ns,s       4D4       4121A      43S.S      432.04    4M,6$    t3s.659    est
7s6304    72S,47S    6".Mn    7XX a5        &6S32    704.$61    us9,411    91%381    90.012   1.13*,371. 3.X9n    1.4&s,%s   1.58B.S    1.619.713  1,6G60SS#  #,J6G%62   1.M3014  I.VAQm
o      _ rt MW4               t36,G       Will6   (WSWi   tt6437)          KOO34      6,5S       4a46       kW3    (47.022)       4702      30Qlt4    57, Io      6,142    R7.4B7     (1336       X567    tOS,M    (M3%  t
R b0Nlto"l               4kG>       42X073     63,265     Aso        ^36.2     ftots       0.,w       30s,ls     2S,7S2     154SAZI      jtSD    U4DA       13,54S      Un         6.331      7.02      mo,es      amS
Rt%   Sw                      14,160     2DX*e3      5^m                  IS,Go      22,DDD    24.200      t5.620    29JS82     16.1e5         D      19,4G7     21AX3      4XIN       10.7m      stJ4      57.061     okist
saatbo  is                    f4Q46       not6    6Q.36s       417x6      4s^DDD     4s^DD      34,643     34,911     55,179     57.018     59,412t    X6S "     6X6t6      62Un       21.112l    20A96      ItS,       ULMe
V tWG,")ot*                   3s,641    137.236     7X122    tS7.6D0      S4,4D     123^s9s    113.227S    Ik72S      62x71      n.,2s3    lot.sfl    ts3.s46    Sol"7      91.927     Ws27    11e4.6        57"       6-1432
Low "     30qb                1S5,56     3897       a.6n                  17.0)      37.1SS     33,9       32X61S     t84t16     29,176     30,sss    46,es<     Ul.1n      27"7       25s,s      Xu.l       10,3D      tso.
Ps"O04AT"                     23.075     94539      543$      t t.601)    76.se     eU,7        79,7ss     76,10S     41,9D4     SG77n    71.374    IW,.4t2      72676      663        59.#9      SD,12S     24csD     4,1C2
Ia   DWM                      I S.=D     3Q0O       45.DD                 30600     31e,0D      1xeDD      3QeXo       Q0,00     3D,DDD     ADX       30.40      tQC8D      30.Z0)    30.Z0       3XCOD      9QOOD      3kDo
mdnwoAw                        s,e75     61I5X9      S.4"t    t 7.6Dt     46bXs      56.7s7     49.2s9    4W109       l3,904     3S,W7      41.4      7n,4s2     42X676      XW>       7st6       5D,ilS     OAs       M5tQ2
Fd     ^ nw                  15 e I6364    164,43S    23xn    23844t7     MMesl     197.39     254.1n    301,452    349,56D    163,464    401.$41    449JS    5203s        5f3.X      5s7.4t9    6zt7ss    6n7.416    67t.
-AbmPSoa                   lIK4,4     2#,s7      231k4ltls l            m3g66   2S4,195t   303,4$2    349,560    363,4S    401.$41   4MX1S    5x397    s6w3"             5.419    nal.2        6n.416    671,4ft    610a0
U  abiai h  mo n _dc ftsdm_wbilo sotoii



PPNE#aURi
ORD iiLOL OMLPIL NELPIOI ROT
HOTrUTRANatnyam
YmmaDomaus              t        tin      lg   - g   tff            / 1990   19tt" 29 4  1995    1996  1tJ1   i9          19b9   20         2en202            200  -g14 --7JZ
PJ~A  wwa                3d x1IS l"Xt  Wn   01 .vIt.4                 mm,  Ox             n  n .tu ,.2  *1,                1125  51 m        A"       S.V     114s      3        6n
_moS4dl              _^N5    1^t"S   14ik0   132,S34    MMle    0ll45f   72515   130617    lnX   a0K7   2&72    VnS30    3K                  MMJe    3MAD   3146W    Nk4f    3M674
OPWIOW          ~~20k1,2  209>  216L651   14.11   39&5DI ttS, kS  1msn t5m               14,      267S0      415D 3D.5    J006        WA       4X0L7   47U      SK7      28
ftAeW4WvI_1*   15%4n >29o                  78.      21,5S 159,9o 2B,          2S9,2  t.=        V.417 269.601   207g$§  2l6l    SU         5 ID   29,m    209           lt" ,7.
Tinh/_Ak          1      6,611  2"0        A7JS   St"85 OURS 11M               2LIS     A        26.9 617  5AI     17,176    MW      W64   19,147    IS7       25f    so         K
_   bih                 30bX11    U.Wl,    7UNe                       JO,    AMZ         AM,IID       30   .000OfO    30614  AW      AM 3   200,l     X,0D    s         Sttltl   A
lult" n      'AMM                65AS   1160IX    (71s)   74317   (4320
152,194   361.,   0" S 93           220l   406112 Jl,709 t98  1.04 3MM          36417    W749    wio          "     4KN7    M         419=0   2ou       269.44
O       _- A""76    f66,92    f2Z,oo               4#,f6    4K7$    457,12    7039"    ([k2    (IfM   (4470    (1a    IlX,S    (4L 6D725 IUS7                                    61 9 
opt" bmS3 MD69t   $fl    AkSo   O1,fSA   S7,2 O                        f V769    4      Afi   347495 IS77U   140140l,Sf    lit US    mm1,    IA7 6       76 69 .1    9   5       in"Z
aadma6hm  SKN    $20  4WAS AIMSOD 457.17   SK70   4K73    WAS    SiLM  4km    um    tam rXw      6XNS3    O$    Km          ""      IK



CR0 mAUuMIamWL?AIMUBUVEACUSaITIUoUO
mmlRon.AIFnImT
Ta*EKMUDmgaU3l                     uww   two    urn    uwz    iw                     i4         w         Mw   Iwi    190    10    mmW    mu5    mu0   29                                         mu
-3~~~~m                                                                                    
emb                     ~~~~430   wig1)      an58    (3.91    me"09    4.535)         87      1.741     %SU0    5SAO       8.451    It#"1    13.63      16.83    19.46      21.129    27.9
Nr         03mg                 5X4       512       267       5.W1      349       3.944     4A21      4.        5.461     6lSl      619       79S       7Sff  t      9     9         190224    17ID
Tia        I iAam               3.714       ON'   2.1          1.33       Us       1.409    4.501    f,67       8.32     31.59    38         3N4       280    25,510    28.88       33.354    39
HdmDsv*pmsaf                     204       22.046    25.03     2S.1D     24.622    253S6    2563S    25.62      255       25,657    26        25.68    258    25.1    25.61    25.61    2S.6
1sd A34.148    34.,31    35.4    369                                     38.111    39.404    49.9ft    42.328    44.677    46321    47.814    49.865   51.86    537    ss.7m8    57.704    59.72
La   DspduiI t                    S1.=     18.217    20.72    2990   25.389    7.6          2,4    31.7S7    335          35,311    36.94     38.5s     40A4    41 485    42.834    44117    45.35
Nt Fd ARSO                      38299    16,t14    34.02       3.539    12722    11.786    11.14    10.S7      11a0i4    l.8       109       11.26    11.71      12.       194    132    14.5
Tat AMi                          42.429    39.46  4059    38,739    38239    58.53    41.3            42.86    4549    48.189    5161         55,219     59.      MAN       67G6   72.62       79.09
DOM                              2.72      2.721    1*,791     1.194       612
Dl 2                               647       0S7       418       279       145
as 1                             4,111     4,060     2.31      I,209
812                              1.739     1,701     1.175       735       261
CDCA                              .669     2.99      2.447     1.780     I6          96       419
CDC 3                            3,869     4,591     3.681     2.832     2.34      1.787 1,222          627
liIG3Cpuil3q                       389       55        167        56
nc 0sw                                                           695    9    6M    60s
Tld lem                          1624      16.80     10         $84       "14       32       2.7         67
-GON                            to,5eo    11.599    15.009    16.00     17.5W0    17.50       7 17.599    17.50  17.509    7.50    1750      17.509    17.50     17.50     17.509    17.50     17.50
_sC  t     -CDC                 t4,511    14.509    1609        .       t7.50     17.50       ,       17,l  l  17,05 17,50  1750  iso  1o    to         I7S      1         17.o      17.5       n
I              Kbm"aonGn            44        44       44        44        44        44        44        44        44        44        44        44        44        44       44        44        44
Pi& ALuACWiA                     1 t.3     ,428)   O55    (.99            1ll9      168     5 3.96    7.205    IO.S    13.136    t6.574    2.US    24.146    28.426    32.424    37.589    4006
TUilN 2018  & R.w               26.182    22.24    284         9A5      32.905    35.S22    39.013    42.       45.09    481118,    51,618    52       59.190    634       67.468    72.24    79
tOALU.L1   AND  QUI    42A429    346                  49.519    5873      38.229    AS*      41.320    42.8M7    451049    48.180    St161     SS        59190    43^        67468    72.63     7909
o__f  Rd     S     qslinM MMO&         19. =Wia 1M. K46.N I 1991 nd K16,1 la IM
'WI



PANANPUA       NUD
OROEALLUOLDMROIL PALM IIV..o9UMWR 130Cr
XOAT  O -00L PALMS DEY UU lN
AdPrad   actALMc_m
YeaT bud DhM _        31             1969      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996     1997      1996      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003     2804      2005
sald                             12,479        0,913    13,675    14,310    i4,072    16.61    18.738    t9.122    19960    21.083    22.282    23.246    24,229    24.986    24.668    26.291    2SS93
DietCg . Sda                      6,09S     6405      7,020     7,516     8.004    6526      9.310     9.943    10.647    11,837    12,626    13.677    14,256    14,433    14,452    U,342    U.661
0psal3at  hue.                    6,361     4,306     6,655     6,794     6.68      623       9,426    9,179     9.133     9,246     9.454     9,573     9.973    10,553    10,216    11.949    t33,42
lnI.uahAM                                                                                                           19        35       S5         6I       103      127       IS1    m n          212
Smidy hum.                        _ 65        160       360      273       258       167       214       234       41S       623       922     1.237     1,237    1t237      1,237     1.237     1,37
Tai hbu.                          6,446     4.66      7,01S     7,067     6,326     S,4S0     9,642    9,413     9,547     9,504    10,434    IO,89    11,313   I1,917    11.604    t3,3t3    15,291
EXPESMB
A      _3aasaI1w CNN              2,721     3.262    ,3.2t6     3.195     3.100     3,176    3,35S     3,654     3,973     4,130     4,376     4.685     4.672     S,067     5,270     5,481    S,700
Dq _imi                           272       2,250     2,195     2.437     2,254     2,142     2,034     1,933     1,636    1,744     1,657    1574      1,49S     1,421     1,350     1,22      1,216 8
A1  d Pgats                          30    30    30    30    16                                                                                                                                          3
law hue         _ (Coauw          1,190     1,278     1,076       S02       562      33?       202       117        39
BDutkwLml.u                          10       220      251         42       313      367       197        34
lab=P ltgoan                      1.310     2,166      O0          (t)      206      122        69        44        16
Teo    El                         753       9.226     6,IS0     6,505     6,451     6,44      5,86      5,782     5,864    5S.74     6,033     6,259     6367      6,48S     6,620     6.763    6,916
PteAt(L) sfs. Taz                   (1,O67)   (4,55)       6        S62      (125)    2,306     3,712     3,631     3.683     4.030     4,401     4,630    4.946     5,429     4,9S4     6,CD      S373
Ta_                                                                                                         395       683      898       963       g96     3,034     1149        967     1,444     1.946
PsaIW(La)AUwTu                      (I,)    (4,5          865       S62      (325)    2,306     3.782     3,236     2,800     3,132     3,438     3,661    3,912    4,260      3,997     S.156     6,427
Balm.bfowad                         2,225     1,138    (3,423    A,5M)   (3,993)   (2,119)        186     3,969     7,205    10,O05    13,136    16,S74    2D,23S    24,146    2S,426    32424    37,8
l1a=_clfoawad                       1,138    (3,420)   0,555)   (3,993)    2,119        IS     3,969     7,205     0,C00S    13,136    16,574    2D235    24.146    26,426    32,424    37,5SD    44,0D7
U -km= km  cocoa ad   0 eat ac p-' ea



F?AW&NIGUWUI
ORD BMAZLUOLDM OIL PFALM DIYJOMAFUNTflOM=C
WTUNEU GM PAUAS nlr laMD
Ytrl_301 Deembetl              36        no       119        m        13       1994      19       1996      1W4       1on      119       20        =1       20       20*   D     I   l
OII PAIts                    11,.26    30?W   12,739    13.155    32,06    1506        16673    1696    37644    18.00    t9.602    20,9        21,19    21.19,    21.3    2236    24667
pika mlb                      1.3        6966    1.U36     1,155    14A6     1.74     2065      2.16      2316     2.483    2.680     2,85     3S.0      3193      3.206     .415    336
Totdl Edge Rmb                12.479    10.913    13.675    14.33    3402    16,811    18.738    19.122    19960    21.063    22.22    23,24    24.22    24,96    24.60    26.2        25
1PB Pnu s                     1AS7      1.525    2,102     2.3      2.493     2.749     3.2      3.143     3.67    4.256      4,783    5.108    54       5.165     4.813    4.317     4.36
4mw IUw          Ao            939       789       608      613    .I0tS    1.145       1.249    1.423      5S7     1.717     1.189    2052      234      2.219    2.S       2.401     2
Hlu_a                         1231      1.445    1.351     1,497    1.608     1,699     1.810    1.841     I U17    1.780     1.756    I.10      1.,1    1.9        2.0       2.112    2.196
M_a 4fe      A 4 Iob_Sg       I,81     1,961    1.9       1853     2.3       1.96      2.135    2.261     2.430    2.635     2.156    3.069     3.102     3,319    3.452     3.5      3.734
Nos  SmS mab                   5         591       725      748       692      939      3.069    1.2tS    1,336     3.449     1.544    1643      1.7       1,7       .88      1.922    19t
ft*A@es.oom0                              94       (15)
6.096    6.40S     7.00     ?.S16      .        S.28     9,310    9.943    10,647    11.837    12.828    13.67s    14.256    1432    14.51    14.342    14.662
Qds3stIm Pus all Pau          6,381     4506      6.5      6794      6.08      0283     9428      9.179    9.113    9.246     9.454     9.sn      9.93    10.54    10.217    11.99    13.841
couuIktIm        eo             6"         SO      1379      171      200       100      I10       100       250      433       712     1.012    1.012    1.032      1,012    1.012    1.012
Oe       _                       40       (44)      48       102       5s        67       114       134      165       190      210      22S       225       22S      225       22S      225
Toal Ca3e                     6.385     4,614     7.082    7,067     6.326     6.450    9.642     9.413    9.5       9,869    10.376    1        11.210    11.791    11.454    13.186    15078
L_:
Ad    lu    Eqeam             2,7U1    3=21    3,266       1195     31S0      3.176     3,356S    SA64     3.973    4,t30     4,376    4.665    4,t72     5.067    5.271     5.481     5.10
la., hoep        )            1.190     1.278    1.078      62        562       337      202       117       39
hiangs hdOmoeelv                10       22D       251       42       271       325      ISS        ()      09)       (         (56      (81     (13       (27      (11)      (707)     (
ulsl         _ J Iiesa'                                                42       42        42        42
P=6       e   PaM OPGo        2.464      (166     2467     3.02      2.5      459       5,665     5.4      S.S35     5.774    6.058     6.204    6441      6.851    6.335     7.882    9.5
New  gIy                                1JI00    5000     l.0       $ 3.000
Now  ouowq                                                   605
Todl s.              2.464      834     7,467    4.633    5351      4519    S.        SAM 5,60S  S.535   S.774     6.058    6.204    6.441    6,61S      6.33S    7.882     9.590
Find Asls 1.70D                          769       635      IS.1S    152      1.73      1.S14    1.330    2.3t       1,64S    1,573      9t1.971 971        1,93     .971 .971         1.971
Now Dewiag_                   1,79S     1.437     1.127      462      675       S76       181
Not Omat Asss hem              (5        (111)     442)      400      424       449       476      SOS       S3S      567       6D1      638       676      716       7S9      80S  8 3
R11Wmdo .8t lA=               2,517     1.538     4.196    3.949  3,579       2,106     1,091     1.119      643
Rep ua_o Ntfw                                            60S
TaM                                                                                                39S       aS3      898       963      969     1.034     1.149      987     1.444     1,946
Tol Ankatl            ,5S     S,633     5.506     S.966    6.260    4,504     3.262    3,ff4    4,409      3.110     3.137    3,57S     3.681    3.136     3.717    4.220     4.770  U 
Rdt _orpbW%Ddd                (3394)    2.799)   1.961    (.333)      009)       66     2.623     1.654    1,126     2.664    2.921     2.626    2.760     S.015    2.618     3.662    4.,Q
C°uuiqCai&3a3.cd(Defld0       3.114      410    (2,3139)    (358    0.691)   (2.60)   (2.535)       *7     3,741     2,#6     s.sao     S,451    13.07    13.837   16.850    19.470   23.130       %
Quba CubSe- sDI)                480    (319)    (3m    (0.691)   (2,6           55)         7     1.741    2.866    S,S30     8.451    11.077    13,837    16.630    19,470    23.130   27,950



- 64 -
ANEXE 13
Page 1 of 5
PAPUA NEr GUINEA
ORO SNALLEOLDEB OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSERVATION OF TUE QUEEN ALEXANDRA BUTTERPLY (QAB)
1.        This butterfly, the largest in the world, has only ever been found
about 50 km of Popondetta. Never common, it is now threatened with extinction
through habitat destruction by large-scale logging throughout its habitat
range, and subsequent conversion of some logged areas to oil palm. The QAB is
not the only special natural feature of the area. Indeed the Popondetta
Plains with their rich volcanic soils are one of the five lowland centres of
endemism in PNC, and other species also are known only from this same region.
However, the QAB is the one feature of Oro Province that is known worldwide,
as well as being a wsymbol" of PNG along with the birds of paradise.
Status of OAB Conservation
2.        The Butterfly is listed in Appendix 1 of the CITES Convention, and
Is protected in PNG law. The laws are ineffective, however, in that all
stages of the butterfly are destroyed along with their habitat when it is
logged or cleared for agriculture, no penalties are imposed for so doing, and
no secure reserves have been established to protect the butterfly. Recent
preliminary surveys have confirmed the existence of QAB in several locations,
rarely by sighting adult butterflies, usually by finding larvae or pupae.
Minor habitat areas remain relatively secure. A few local landowners have, so
far, deliberately conserved small areas of QAB habitat in the face of pressure
from logging interests, and HOPPL manages an active rehabilitation program in
its small proposed wildlife Management Area, in association with the
Provincial Wildlife Officer. In 1991 GOPNG commenced QAB project funding in
anticipation of continuing work through the Oil Palm Project. Nevertheless,
the decline of QAB has continued to accelerate, and areas of known QAB habitat
have recently been destroyed by logging.
The OAB and the Smallholder OI Palm Project
3.        Despite the fact that oil palm plantations occupy potential QAB
habitat, the proposed project is the only present-time opportunity to
integrate a QAB survival program with the conservation and agricultural
development priorities of GOPNG. There are no practicable alternatives.
The project has been designed in consultation with DEC, international NGOs
including Worldwide Fund for (WF), Conservation International, and local NGOs
including the Wau Ecology Institute (WEI) and Oro Provincial Women's Council.
A workshop convened in Popondetta in 1991 brought together representatives of
local landowners, NGOs, HOPPL, DEC, DAL, NFCAP, the Provincial Government,
Universities and radio stations. Priorities for action were identified in
regard to infrastructure, policy, legislation, research, resource management,
economic opportunity and education/awareness. Subsequently, WEI prepared a
Management Actlon Plan on behalf of DEC. An Alexandra Birdwing Conservation
Committee (ABCC) is proposed to be formed with representation including



- 65 -
ASME 13
Page 2 of 5
landowners, DEC, DAL, OPIC, HOPPL, NGOs, Universities and Provincial
Government. It would monitor implementatlon of the program and report on
progress to donors, review proposals for grant-funded work, and administer a
smll fund for local conservation work. The proposed smallholder oil palm
project provides the means of developing a model, replicable elsewhere through
the NFCAP process, that demonstrates conservation of a threatened species and
its habitat, coupled directly with both small scale and large scale economic
opportunity for local people.
O*B Conservation Proaram Obiective
4.        The fundamental objective is to ensure that viable populations of
the QAB can be expected to survive in perpetuity in their natural habitat by
providing opportunities for local people to benefit in both cultural and
economic terms from conservation of QAB and its forest habitat.
OAB Conservation ProSram Outline
5.        The QAB Conservation program would be based upon existing GOPNG
conservation and agriculture agencies, and would link directly with the NFCAP.
It would provide core components to field infrastructure, lacking in the past,
upon which to base conservation work. In particular, it would provide funding
for national staff, housing, office space, demonstration and working areas,
transport, and equipment.
6.        National staff would include a qualified entomologist (or biologist
with special interest and knowledge in entomology) as conservation project
manager; a conservation officer to undertake field work coupled with the
research and resource management programs; an extension officer to identify
and coordinate economic opportunity projects with special focus on matters
related to women; an ecologist to lead the habitat rehabilitation team; a
registered surveyor to take responsibility for survey and procedural matters
related to establishment of conservation areas, and administrative and non-
technical support staff. An internationally recognized specialist in the
conservation of birdwing butterflies would be recrulted for three years as
principal research officer to study the butterfly and its habitat, propose
reserve areas, design research programs, and train the national counterpart.
OAM Conservation Prouram Activitie
7.        The principal activities would include basic research on the
distribution, population density and ecology of QAB throughout its range;
research on its food plants; habitat enrichment and rehabilitation; appraisal
of economic opportunities; liaison with commercial interests, NGOs and
government agencies; involvement of local people, with special attention to
issues of interest to women in conservation and development; continuing
education, awareness and extension services; and the development of resource
management strategies based upon economic opportunity coupled with the
establishment of Wildlife Nanagement Areas or similar conservation areas
designed for survival of the butterfly in perpetuity. Grant funds obtained
through the project would be used to enhance the productivity of the core team
by widening the scope and extent of research programs, conservation activities



- 66 -
Page 3 of 5
and economic development work which can be undertaken by them and, in
particular, by a range of appropriately experienced local NGOs.
8.       Small scale economic opportunities which have been tried
successfully in PNG and may be appropriate here include ranching of
butterflies and other insects (possibly including the QAB); farming of
cassowaries, crocodiles and freshwater fish; aquarium fish trading;
ecotourism; hardwood agro-forestry; making tapa cloth (from trees found only
in Oro); orchid culture for the cut-flowers market; rattan harvesting and
enrichment, and harvest of edible soft fruits and nuts, natural dyestuffs and
resins. While the income from such projects may be small in Kina terms, it is
commonly highly significant in terms of the small rural villages and family
groups which normally do not take part in the cash economy, but nonetheless
now require cash for school fees, transport etc.
9.       Discussion with representatives of women's groups in Oro revealed a
priority requirement for an area where women can meet to discuss economic and
cultural development. Therefore a suitable area, which can also be used as a
demonstration area (with associated preparation and storage rooms), would be
incorporated into the new Conservation Offices. The women's program would be
coordinated by the DEC extension officer and in some cases undertaken by NOOs
specializing in issues of interest to women. Work planned under the program
includes the direct involvement of women in promoting conservation at the
village level, since they traditionally have prime responsibility for
harvesting forest products, and restoration of women's traditional role in
decision-making, which tends to be eroded where the cash economy supplants the
non-cash economy.
10.      Grant funds would also be sought to support the active,
participation of local landowner groups, which would be essential to the
ultimate success of the project. Participation is intended both to raise
rural conservation awareness and to generate conservation - coupled income.
NGOs, some of which have expertise in village-level economic development and
in issues related to women in development, and others which have scientific
and technical interests appropriate to conservation, will be an integral part
of this part of the work, and will be coordinated by the DEC extension
officer.
OAS Conserwatio  ProrM Desion Basis
11.      The QAB Conservation Program has been designed and must be
implemented on the clear understanding that local Orokaiva people will
determine, ultimately, whether or not the QAB survives. In PNG, landowners
have virtually total authority over their land and the resources on it,
irrespective of the wishes of local and central governments. Only if the
landowners perceive that their own wishes for economic development continue to
be served by conservation of the QAB and its habitat will the program succeed
in the long term. Thus, the program has been set up in such a manner that
communication with landowners is facilitated in order to identify their
concerns and priorities, and address them through activities that are seen to
be directly linked with butterfly conservation. In rural PNG, development is
usually translated as "making money", hence to be successful conservation of



- 67 -
muE 13
Page 4 of 5
the butterfly, as one form of development, must be implemented in such a way
as to 'make money' for people taking part. This is particularly so in the
Popondetta area, where compared with many other areas of PN6, there is good
access to roads, schools, shops and medical facilities, and people have a
continuing requirement for cash.
InteractI  wiEt Oil Palm DetlnUmeSt
12.       Potential oil palm blocks are located in degraded, fire-maintained
grasslands or secondary forest. The latter are used by QAB, although adult
butterflies apparently also require primary forest species as food sources.
No primary forest would be accepted for conversion to oil palm, and indeed
none is known to remain in the area of oil palm interest. The possibility
that settlers attracted to the oil palm scheme at Kokoda may extend their
subsistence gardening activities into primary forest areas would be addressed
by offering stable alternatives through the project extension officers and
NGOs which have specialized in stabilizing shifting agriculture. A screening
process based on the density of the larval food plant has been designed to
assess the potential QAB habitat value of proposed oil palm blocks. If
habitats were assessed as "potentially useful', or as "prime habitat"
landowners would be encouraged to allow oil palm development elsewhere. If
they declined, they would be asked to allow removal of vines and butterflies
to alternative sites. If negotiation fails, OPIC would decline to assist the
landowners with oil palm development. This would be used as a last resort
where 60% of the blocks were assessed as prime sites. It is a high-risk
option as, in the "payback" society of PNG, landowners could retaliate
directly against both vines and butterflies. To further assist QAB
conservation, DAL/ORIC has agreed to restrict oil palm development to areas of
degraded grasslands for the first couple of years, thus allowing time to
obtain research data on the use of secondary forest areas by QAB in order to
imrove the management of such areas. Finally, it is relevant to note that
the most effective butterfly field work, habitat rehabilitation and resource
management program initiated to date is being carried out by HOPPL at its lejo
reserve.
OAB Conservation Proaram Imolementation Stat"u
13.       From the PMG viewpoint, planning of the conservation program is well
advanced in anticipation of full-scale operations from the beginning of 1993,
and field staff are already based in Popondetta. The principal remaining
requirement is for an international sponsor NGO to "adopt" the entire program,
and to provide the international continuity and continued presence which is so
difficult for field works in PNG to achieve.



- 68 -
AM=E 13
Page 5 of 5
TECUNIcAL PERSONNEL: SUMNARY OF OUALIFICATIONS AND DUTIES
A.        Principal Research Offier
Internationally recognized specialist in the conservation of
birdwing butterflies. Responsible for the design of research programs on all
aspects of the butterfly, its food plants, its distribution and its habitat
requirements. Responsible for technology transfer of research planning and
implementation skills to national staff. Position tenable for 18 months, with
renewal or replacement funded for further 18 months.
B.        ational Staff
Conservation Project Manager
Graduate entomologist (or biologist with special interest or
knowledge in entomology), and with proven skills in communications and in
managing research projects. Responsible for both administrative and technical
management of the project, liaison with other agencies, and supervision of
project staff.
Conservation Officer
Provincial wildlife/ecology-oriented person, with proven abilities
in butterfly field work and in liaison with local landowner groups.
Responsible for implementing the butterfly program, promoting with landowners
the concepts of butterfly conservation, and promoting the establishment of
Wildlife Management Areas.
Extension Officer
Specialist in sustainable utilization of non-timber forest
resources, small business opportunity and village-level economic development.
Responsible for identifying and evaluating options, and discussing them with
interested landowners. Responsible, in association with NGOs and others, for
implementing selected options. Responsible for addressing the implications of
development for women, the role of women in promoting conservation, and the
economic opportunities available in relation to butterfly conservation.
Ecologist
Leader of the habitat enrichment team. Responsible for propagating
and planting-out the butterfly's food plants, and for advising landowners on
habitat rehabilitation and management in accordance with objectives defined by
the research program.
Registered Surveyor
Registered surveyor to carry out boundary surveys of proposed
conservation areas, prepare maps and other documentation, and take
responsibility for liaison with the Department of Lands concerning the timely
establishment of conservation areas.



- 69 -
AM=E 14
PAPUA VW GUINEA
0O0 SNILLFOLDER oI AIRU DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supporting Documents Available in Project File
Agriculture Bank of Papua New Guinea: Annual Report and Financial Statements,
1990.
Papua New Guinea Banking Corporation: Annual Reports, 1989, 1990.
Bank of Papua New Guinea: Report and Financial Statements December 31, 1990.
Higaturu Oil Palms Pty Ltd (HOPPL): Annual Accounts, 1988, 1989, 1990 and
1991.
Higaturu Transport Pty Ltd (HTPL): Annual Accounts, 1989, 1990, and 1991.
FAO/CP - CDC December 1987 Identification Report.
FAO/CP - CDC November 1988 Preparation Report.
Cons"ltant's Report on Environment Management and Alexand-a Birdwing Butterfly
Conservation, May 1990.
Consultant's Report on Alexandra Birdwing Conservation, July 1990.
Results of the Preliminary Survey of Alexandra Birdwing, July 1991.
Consultant's Report on Women in Papua New Guinea's Tree Crop Sub-sector,
December 1991.
GOPNG's Procedures for Special Accounts for Foreign Assisted Projects.
Appraisal Mission's Working Papers:
(a) detailed cost tables by component;
(b) economic analysis;
(c) smallholder farm model;
(d) crop projections.



C~~~~~~~
A-                     Is-     4=
9w~~f
4~~~~~~~~
4-s
Z
(Onthpes:W alexandrae
f :~Acul Xsiz:
*""vi- fA  
* '.,,t''p'.,'' /'   .''  ',  ,   -S   As.              "', ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
, .7-fASE      
.V-  ,,s,r,,  ' '   <p'    S     ah          ,,       , e~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;'j''-"S                    X        ''         '".  .'",'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
( ||| QUEEN bLOCANDRA BIRDWING BlJrrERFLY  9         ;   -~~~~
- ~ ~~~~~~~ POntotr  lxnre                   
i  Actual size       o      .               .          *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_E~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "    --S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P



148 -OE                                               R.4UA ANd GL
ORO SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM
fJI pAP                .                                               <                                         DEVLOPMEN  PRW.-Cr
* '  NEW                                                                                                                  \:SMAU.OWEROILPALMOLOCKS-
GUINEA                                                                                                          _\__
Sc~~on,on                ,~C'(                                                                OSrENG A*EA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R.                                                                       MOP b9    _E ;\S  y t 
*       /a                                             e.                                              tHo,. t4 a.EUO eSTATES
.MarmbyhY        ~8030S                                                                                      MAMBAESTATE                   ~S-S
A   OWWCESAM0 PACTOPSIE
MAIN OtAD
f 5    X X  J          SECliONt tO S
-   .INTERHATiONAL SOUNDASES
AX
S045.8
'PAS.S
~~J~~6     ESTATE                                                                       SVN
9RISOTA            Oro
MT. LAMINGTON
i4d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO6~~~~~14W1



