Report No. 1526b-TA                                              FILE  COPY
Tanzania
Appraisal of a Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project
September 21, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                  Shilling (T Sh)
US$0.12                                        T Sh 1
US$1.00                                        T Sh 8.30
US$1,000                                       T Sh 8,300
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES        METRIC
Metric System                                 British/US System
1 meter (m)                                   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                              0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton2(m ton)        =                 2,204 pounds (lb) 2
1 sq. km (km )                                0.386 sq. mile (mi )
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA             -       Canadian International Development Agency
EAA              -       East African Airways
EAC              -       East African Community
EARC             -       East African Railways Corporation
ICB              -       International Competitive Bidding
IS               -       International Shopping
MCT              -       Ministry of Communications and Transport
MFP               -      Ministry of Finance and Planning
MoW               -      Ministry of Works
NIT              -       National Institute of Transport
NMC              -       National Milling Corporation
NRHC             -       National Road Haulage Company
NTC              -       National Transport Corporation
SMC              -       State Motor Corporation
TAT              -       Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
TAZARA           -       Tanzania - Zambia Railway Authority
TCA              -       Tanzania Cotton Authority
TCSL             -       Tanzania Coastal Shipping Lines
TLA              -       Transport Licensing Authority
TRS              -       Tanzania Road Services
TRDB             -       Tanzania Rural Development Bank
ZTRS             -       Zambia - Tanzania Road Services
GOVERNMENT OF TANZANIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF A TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ....               ..........................   i-ii
1.    INTRODUCTION           ................................ .. ...     ......... .      1
2.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR           ......................................               3
A.    Economic Setting  . ........ .            .................. ........ .       3
B.    The Transport System  - . .   .........  ..           ... . ....  ......... .  4
C.    Transport Policy,  Planning and Coordination  ..........                      5
D.    Previous Bank Projects in the Transport Sector  .......                       7
3.    THE TRUCKING INDUSTRY   - ...... . . . .................... . . . . . .  ........... .  8
A.    Structure of the Industry ............................                        8
B.    Truck Fleet  ....... ...............               ....................    10
C.    Traffic               .............................................    11
D.    Regulations and Rates  .            ................... .... . . ...  .    11
E.    Industry Performance  .......... .. .... . . .  ................. . ...    12
F.    Truck Maintenance and Repair                         ............           13
G.    Personnel  .............  .................. .O....    15
4.    THE PROJECT  ....................              ........................            16
A.    Objectives  ............ .......................................    16
B.    Description ................................................ .........    16
C.    Cost Estimate  ... .         .................. ..................    21
D. Financing ....                         ................ 23
E.    Implementation .... ................. - ...............                     23
F.    Procurement  . .............- .....     . ...... . . ..... ....    24
G.    Disbursements  . .....              ... . ............................. .    25
H.    Environmental Aspects  .... . . . . .  ......................  ....... .    26
5.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION  .......... o..............................                    26
A.    Main Benefits and Beneficiaries  .....  oo-.o..........    26
B.    Areas of Influence of Project  ........................    26
C.    Economic Analysis of Aid to Selected
Trucking Companies  .*o*oo...**               ......................    27
D.    Economic Analysis of Spare Parts Imports  .... o- ......   28
E.    Economic Evaluation of Other Project Components  ......    28
F.    Sensitivity Analysis  .......... . ................. . .                     29
6.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   ....................    29
This report was prepared by Kenneth Clare (Economist), Steve Carapetis
(Engineer) and Marie Garcia-Zamor (Technical Editor).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLES
1.   Road User Charges
2.   Motor Vehicles - New Registrations, 1962-74
3.   Road Vehicle Fleet, 1962-75
4.   Vehicle and Spare Parts Imports, 1972-74.
5.   Age Composition of Truck Fleet, Private and Parastatal,
1962-75
6.   Estimated Regional Distribution of Truck Fleet, 1975
7.   Axle-load Regulations
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.   Performance Targets for the Five Transport
Companies
10.   Truck Fleet of the Five Transport Companies,
1977-82
11.   Consolidated Operating Statements for the Five Transport
Companies Projected for 1980
12.   Truck Fleet Capability of the Five Transport Companies After
Strengthening, 1977-82
13.   Costs and Benefits Based on Assistance to the Five Transport
Companies
14.   Costs and Benefits of Truck Spare Parts Imports
ANNEXES
1.   Transport Modes Other than Roads
2.   Previous Bank Group-Financed Transport Projects
3.   Public and Private Truck Transport Operations
4.   Transport Problems of the Selected Regions
5.   Technical Assistance, Terms of Reference
6.   National Institute of Transport, Training Program
7.   Project Monitoring Indices
CHARTS
1.   Organization of Ministry of Communications and Transport
2.   Organization of the National Transport Corporation
3.   Organization of Trucking Companies to be Assisted
4.   Initial Implementation Schedule
5.   Implementation - Activities and Responsibilities
MAP
TANZANIA:  Trucking Industry Project, Transport Network (IBRD 12603)



TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF A TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Tanzania's largely agricultural economy depends heavily on truck
transport, which is provided by both public and private entities. Over the
last few years, however, trucking services have so deteriorated that the
present lack of efficient and reliable services constitutes a serious bottle-
neck to economic activity.
ii.       The Bank Group became involved in the transport sector of Tanzania
in 1964 when Credit 48-TA (US$14 million), supplemented by Credit 115-TA (US$3
million) in 1968, helped finance construction of various road sections
totalling 860 km; this project was satisfactorily completed in 1970. The
Second Road Project, financed in 1969 under Credit 142-TA (US$15.5 million)
and Loan 586-TA (US$7.0 million), assisted with the construction of the TANZAM
Highway and was satisfactorily completed in 1972. A Third Project, financed
in 1971 by IDA Credit 265-TA (US$6.5 million), also assisted with road construc-
tion, and a Fourth, financed in 1974 by IDA Credit 507-TA (US$10.2 million),
aimed at improving road maintenance; both are still in progress. In addition,
Bank Group loans totalling US$166 million were made to the East African
Railway Corporation in 1955, 1966 and 1974 and to the East African Harbours
Corporation in 1969 and 1972.
iii.      Under the proposed project, the major component will assist the
Government in improving public trucking facilities in line with its socialist
policies and comprises the establishment and initial operation of five public
trucking companies, including technical assistance, procurement of necessary
trucks, rehabilitation of existing trucks and provision of truck repair
facilities.
iv.       Financing is also provided for replenishing the country's depleted
stocks of spare parts and for technical assistance to improve spare part and
truck import procurement. Another component will assist with increasing the
supply of trained trucking personnel through provision of technical assist-
ance instructors, teaching aids and workshop equipment. Finally, the project
also provides technical assistance for coordination of the diverse project
activities and for preparing an action plan for organizing, improving and
strengthening the whole trucking industry including an explicit strategy
and program regarding future public sector involvement in the industry.
v.        Project execution will be the responsibility of the National Transport
Corporation, a parastatal company under the Ministry of Communications and
Transport, assisted by a Project Coordinator provided under the project. The
Tanzanian Rural Development Bank through which onlending will be arranged will
also play a significant role in implementing and overseeing the formation and
operation of the trucking companies. Project implementation is expected to
start in early 1978 and be completed by the end of 1982.



- ii -
vi.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$18.2 million
(US$17.3 million excluding taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$15.1 million. The IDA Credit of US$15 million will cover about
100% of the foreign costs, or about 87% of total project costs net of taxes
and duties. The remaining US$3.2 million will be contributed by the Govern-
ment. To assist with early mobilization of the technical assistance under
the project, retroactive financing of US$75,000 is recommended to help the
Government provide prompt logistic support.
vii.      New trucks and associated spare parts, and workshop equipment will
be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement. Spare parts for truck rehabilitation
(estimated value US$500,000) and teaching aids (valued at about US$60,000)
will be procured through international shopping. The necessary labor for
truck rehabilitation (estimated value US$180,000) will be obtained by local
shopping with competent local workshops. Procurement of workshop buildings
for the five companies (valued at about US$210,000) will be through local
competitive bidding procedures. Spare parts for replenishing dealers' in-
ventories will be procured by dealers to whom the foreign exchange will be
allocated by the Government. Finally, technical assistants will be employed
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and according to an agreed
timetable.
viii.     Quantified project benefits comprise increased efficiency of truck-
ing services in project areas, savings in cost per ton-km of road transport
and avoidance of substantial capital costs of new trucks. The project is
well-justified, yielding an economic return of about 37%.
ix.       The principal project risk is that expected benefits would be
substantially less than anticipated, particularly with respect to technical
assistance to the five project companies. Every reasonable effort to mini-
mize this risk has been made to help ensure that anticipated benefits mate-
rialize. Overall, the project, which represents a necessarily modest attempt
to begin alleviating the constraint that inefficient trucking services im-
poses on the country's economy, should yield improvements that can serve as
a basis for more comprehensive gains in future as the sector's absorptive
capacity for assistance increases.
x. With the agreements and under the conditions set forth in Chapter 6,
the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$15 million to Tanzania,
on the standard terms.



TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF A TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Tanzania's trucking industry accounts for much of the country's
total transport demand. However, trucking services have deteriorated rapidly
in recent years, resulting in a serious bottleneck to overall economic
activity, especially in the agricultural sector. This situation has come
about mainly as a result of difficulties the Government has encountered in
translating its socialist development policy into a workable transport sector
strategy, specifically from problems encountered in a) substituting public
trucking operations for private sector participation in the industry, and
b) regulating the import of vehicles and spare parts. Recognizing that
there was a problem, the Government commissioned a study of the trucking
industry by TRIMAC (Consultants, Canada), financed under the Fourth Highway
Project. This study, completed in 1976, forms the basis for the proposed
project.
Public Sector Trucking
1.02      Almost all road freight was carried by private companies until 1973
when the Government, in line with its socialist ideology, adopted a policy
of substituting a public transport system in place of the privately-owned
industry. As a result, the private sector lost confidence and many operators
left the industry, resulting in a decline in the private share of freight
service to about two-thirds of total trucking services. The Government en-
tered the industry in a number of ways, including the creation of specialist
transport companies and transport wings in manufacturing, trading and crop
marketing parastatals. However, many such entities have been characterized
by inefficiency, low productivity and unreliable provision of services, and,
consequently, have been neither financially viable nor economic. They have
inexperienced management, untrained personnel and inefficient organizational
procedures (para. 3.28). Further, some of the entities are required to pro-
vide unprofitable but essential services and, at times operating over poor
roads, are sometimes forced to accept unprofitable rates for services that
could command viable rates. Typically, these companies suffer from lack of
working capital with high interest and amortization commitments.
Import of Vehicles and Spare Parts
1.03      In 1974, the Government charged the Central Bank of Tanzania with
determining the amount of foreign exchange to be allocated for the import of
vehicles and the amount to be set aside for spare parts imports. Also in
1974, the Government set up the State Motor Corporation (SMC) and made it the
sole agency responsible for importing trucks for resale to both the public
and private sectors. In importing and allocating trucks, SMC gives priority
to parastatals, then cooperatives (citizens in joint ventures) and, last, to
private truckers. However, SMC lacks trained staff to collect and analyze
data on actual trucking industry needs, with the result that truck imports
are frequently unrelated to industry requirements in number, type and size of
trucks. This situation results in the import of inappropriate vehicles for



- 2 -
some operations, and in spare parts and training problems, the net effects of
which constrain industry efficiency and productivity.
1.04      For spare parts imports, the SMC receives foreign exchange applica-
tions, mainly from dealers (franchise holders and bazaars), parastatals and
major transport operators. These applications, which SMC does not have suffi-
cient trained staff to analyze, are submitted at six-month intervals to the
Central Bank of Tanzania. The Central Bank decides on the foreign exchange
to be provided for spare parts for the following six months. Like SMC, the
Central Bank has no way of determining actual needs. After the Central Bank
allocates the foreign exchange, SMC divides the amount available among the
various applicants who import parts against their often insufficient alloca-
tions. As a result, spare parts availability has been considerably reduced,
with the consequence that a major part of the vehicle fleet, including the
economically vital truck fleet, lies idle for lack of spare parts while
export crops, local foodstuffs and other vital commodities await transport.
It is estimated that as much as 40% of the truck fleet is out of service
largely because of lack of spare parts for vehicle maintenance and repair.
1.05      In an effort to reverse the resulting serious deterioration in
trucking services, and the concommitant constraint on the economy, the Gov-
ernment has reevaluated its policy with respect to private sector operations
and has concluded that, while it will continue to emphasize the part of
public transport supply, the private sector will continue to play an import-
ant role in road freight transport. Accordingly, the private sector has begun
to regain confidence in the industry and is beginning to reinvest. The
Government also realizes the negative effects of its vehicle and spare part
import system and is seeking a means of ensuring adequate and appropriate
availability of trucks and spares. Finally, the Government has taken some
preliminary steps to improve the performance of public trucking operations,
including decentralization of public trucking from the national to the re-
gional level (para. 3.04) and the dissolution of uneconomic and financially-
pressed public trucking entities.
Proposed Bank Group Assistance
1.06      The Government has requested Bank Group assistance in building upon
the above-mentioned preliminary steps to rehabilitate the trucking industry.
The magnitude of the task of adequately rehabilitating and improving the
industry is well beyond the scope of a single project, for several reasons.
First, the shortage of skilled managers and personnel limits the industry's
current absorptive capacity for assistance. Second, while industry problems
are glaringly apparent in general terms, there is little detailed informa-
tion available at present on the actual dimensions and geographic spread of
these problems. A start must be made on collecting and analyzing such data
before comprehensive solutions can be formulated. And third, the task of
strengthening public sector trucking, an institution-building exercise which
can only proceed on a phased basis as skills are trained, should be approached
in a flexible way so that changes can be made in the light of experience
gained and as new demands arise.
1.07      In view of the constraints mentioned above, it is obvious that,
at present, Association assistance to Tanzania's trucking industry will be



-3-
attended by some uncertainty and should aim for modest early gains in industry
performance. Yet at the same time Association staff believe it is imperative
that efforts to revitalize the industry begin now before the economy of the
country is further affected. The proposed project (described in detail in
Chapter 4) will support Government efforts to address the country's vehicle
and spare parts import problem (paras. 4.16-.17) and to increase the supply of
trained trucking personnel (paras. 4.10, 4.15), which will benefit the pri-
vate, as well as public sector industry. A major thrust of the project is to
begin the process of strengthening public sector trucking by assisting in the
setting-up and initial operation of five regional trucking companies (paras.
4.03-.14). While the planned services of these companies will represent a
small proportion of total trucking services in Tanzania, it is envisaged that
as the project unfolds, personnel are trained and experience is gained, this
approach could provide a model which would be extended to other regions as
well.
1.08      Total project cost is estimated at US$18.2 million (US$17.3 million
excluding taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange component of US$15.1
million, 87% of total project cost net of taxes and duties. The project will
be financed by an IDA credit of US$15 million and a Government contribution
of US$3.2 million, or US$2.3 million excluding taxes and duties.
1.09      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
comprising Kenneth Clare (Economist), Steve Carapetis (Engineer), and Earl
Federhofer (Consultant), which visited Tanzania in September-October 1976.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2.01      Tanzania, situated a few degrees south of Ehe equator on the eastern
coast of Africa, has a land area of about 940,000 km , a large part of which
is high, arid plateau. The population of about 15 million is concentrated
near the three main Indian Ocean ports of Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Mtwara,
and in the Lake Victoria region, the highlands around Kilimanjaro and the
southern highlands near Lake Nyasa. Less than 10% of the population lives in
towns, but the urban population is increasing much faster than the national
average of 2.7% p.a.
2.02      Agriculture is the main economic activity, accounting for about 40%
of GNP and 80% of exports (mainly cotton, coffee, sisal and cashewnuts). The
small but growing industrial sector includes textile and sugar mills, tobacco
products manufacturing, an oil refinery and diverse other small plants. How-
ever, as stated in para. 1.01, the current lack of adequate transport seri-
ously constrains the country's economic growth, especially the marketing of
agricultural products and the delivery of inputs.



-4-
2.03      Tanzania's development philosophy aims at reducing inequalities in
income distribution through rural development, and through state control of
large-scale agricultural enterprises and important industries and services,
including those related to transport (para. 1.02). To facilitate rural
development and to improve its overall efficiency, the Government in 1972
decentralized various administrative activities, giving the country's 20
regions substantial power to control planning and budget provisions in their
respective jurisdictions, particularly those activities concerned with devel-
opment at the local level. With regard to transport, this decentralization
policy is reflected in Government's present effort to regionalize public
trucking operations, which should help in achieving more reliable and effi-
cient services (para. 3.04).
B. The Transport System
The Network
2.04      Tanzania's transport system comprises roads (about 33,400 km),
two railway systems (totalling 3,570 km of track), three main ocean ports
and some minor ocean and lake ports, two international airports and over
50 smaller airfields. In addition, there is a 900 km oil pipeline between
Dar es Salaam and Zambia; one of the railways and a major road, the TANZAM
Highway, were also built mainly to carry Zambian traffic.
Roads
2.05      Network.  The Government has concentrated road investments in
recent years in bituminizing existing roads rather than building new ones;
thus the total length of the network has remained virtually unchanged. Of
the approximately 33,400 km of roads, only about 2,600 km (8%) are paved
and 1,100 km (3%) are engineered gravel. The remainder of the network is
unengineered, dry-weather roads. Trunk (6,000 km) and territorial main roads
(1,160 km) make up the primary system which links the country's 20 regional
capitals with each other and with neighboring countries. Primary roads vary
in standard from two-lane paved to unimproved track. Local main roads (9,220
km) make up the secondary system which connects other centers of economic
activity with the primary network. The tertiary road system comprises about
17,000 km.
2.06      Density.  Averag! road density is among the lowest in Eastern
Africa, 38 km per 1,000 km or 2.3 km per 1,000 inhabitants, and varies
considerably from one region to another, generally reflecting development
and settlement patterns.



- 5 -
2.07      Highway Plans.  The 1969-74 Second Five-Year Development Plan
allocated a total of US$114 million to roads, about US$70 million of which
was for the TANZAM4 Highway. Under the 1976-80 Third Five-Year Plan, under
preparation, highways are expected to account for a significant proportion
of the total budget, with substantial amounts for extension and improvement
of the primary road network and roads to serve agricultural development.
(Highway and overall transport planning capacity is discussed in Section C.)
2.08      Road User Charges.  Charges or taxes on road users have provided
funds for recurrent expenditures on road administration and maintenance.
Import duties on fuel, vehicles and tires and tubes (see rates in Table 1)
have yielded considerable revenue although full information on the amounts is
not available. Additional funds (Table 1) are collected from road users
in the form of motor vehicle taxes and licenses, and road transport licenses
(para. 3.13).
2.09      Maintenance.  The condition of the road network is generally poor
because there are few engineered roads (para. 2.05) and because adequate
maintenance is lacking due to shortage of qualified staff and equipment,
institutional inefficiencies, and insufficient budget allocations. Rural
roads are especially poor. Current Government action to address these
problems includes provision of staff training and equipment, under the
IDA-financed Highway Maintenance Project (Cr. 507-TA), and recently-created
Betterment and Maintenance Units, which are upgrading selected secondary
roads in several regions. In addition, the Government is preparing a further
road maintenance project for future Bank Group financing to cover regions not
involved in Credit 507-TA.
2.10      Administration and Staffing.  The Ministry of Works (MOW) is re-
sponsible for construction and maintenance of primary roads; regional admin-
istrations, which receive guidance and assistance from MOW, are responsible
for the rest of the network. Shortage of qualified staff has long been a
problem in all MOW divisions and in the regional administrations. The train-
ing program instituted under the Highway Maintenance Project is beginning
to redress this problem.
Other Modes
2.11      Railways, ports and shipping, air transport and pipelines are
described in Annex 1.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
Policy
Infrastructure
2.12       In colonial days, the development of transport infrastructure
focused on serving Tanzania's external trade; the west (Kigoma) and north



-6-
(Mwanza and Arusha) were linked by rail to the main ports, Dar es Salaam and
Tanga, and roads were developed mainly as feeders to the railway and the
ports, both of which are owned and operated by the East African Community
(EAC). Since 1969, expansion of transport infrastructure has been directed
towards providing neighboring landlocked Zambia with rail (TAZARA, built with
the assistance of the Peoples Republic of China) and road access (the TANZAM
Highway, partly financed by the Bank Group) to Dar es Salaam. Further, in
line with its development policy (para. 2.03) the Government has recently
given increasing emphasis to rural road development and to decentralization of
road administration.
2.13      Recent developments within the EAC are toward dissolution and de-
centralization of EAC railway, ports and air transport corporations; if this
continues, Tanzania will face a number of serious problems, particularly the
need for large capital investments from the national budget and additional
skilled manpower.
Road Transport
2.14      Until recent years, Government policy was to leave motor transport
entirely to the private sector but, with the evolution of socialism in the
country, the Government entered the field directly by setting up parastatal
road transport organizations. Nevertheless, most road transport of freight
and passenger traffic remains in the private sector, subject to licensing of
operators and other types of Governmental control (paras. 1.02-.05 and 3.13).
Planning
Infrastructure
2.15      The Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP) has principal respon-
sibility for financing transport investments and recurrent expenses. MFP
reviews investment proposals from MOW and the Ministry of Communications and
Transport (MCT), as well as from the District Councils after preliminary
review by the Office of the Prime Minister. Detailed investment plans were
contained in the First Five-Year Development Plan, prepared in 1964, and in
the 1969-74 Five-Year Plan which was extended to 1975 and then to 1976, to
take account of uncompleted works. A Third Five-Year Plan is being prepared.
2.16      Transport planning capability is weak, and data for planning is not
systematically collected. In 1970, a small Planning Unit was established in
the former Ministry of Communications and Works and given primary transport
planning responsibility. In 1975, when the functions of this Ministry were
given to the new MOW and MCT, the Planning Unit was assigned to MCT. Recently,
contracts for several CIDA-financed expatriates who were assisting the Govern-
ment have ended and the remaining planning capability is very limited. tMOW
created its own Planning Unit in 1976; although the Unit will be enlarged
in future, so far a Director has been appointed, an engineer has been assigned
to it part-time and MOW is recruiting an economist, financing for which
is provided under the Third Highway Project.



-7-
Road Transport
2.17      Motor transport is largely in the hands of individual private oper-
ators. Government has, however, taken some responsibility for assuring that
certain areas, not served by private operators, are provided with trucking
services through the creation of public companies. Planning of operations,
size of fleets, provision of ancillary services (workshops, spares, etc.) is
poor in the public companies. The proposed project is designed to redress
this situation (para. 4.18).
Coordination
Infrastructure
2.18      Coordination of transport infrastructure provision is virtually
nonexistent, largely because of the lack of planning capability and partly as
a result of the various difficulties EAC transport organizations have faced
in the recent past. To date, however, this has not led to serious mis-
investment.
Road Transport
2.19      Coordination of road transport with other modes is limited largely
to that within the East African Railway Corporation which has a motor trans-
port division providing a significant amount of trucking services comple-
mentary to its rail services. Other public and private transport services
operate mostly in isolation of other transport modes. The proposed project
will address this matter also (para 4.18).
D. Previous Bank Projects in the Transport Sector
Previous Projects
2.20      A number or road projects have been financed by the Bank Group
(Annex 2): (a) US$14 million IDA credit in 1964 (48-TA) for construction
of various road sections totalling 860 km; supplemented by a US$3 million
credit in 1968 (115-TA); (b) US$15.5 million IDA credit (142-TA) and US$7.0
million Bank loan (586-TA) in 1969 for reconstruction work on a part of the
TANZAM Highway; (c) US$6.5 million IDA credit (265-TA) in 1971 for construc-
tion of a main road in the Southeast and betterment of selected feeder
roads; and (d) US$10.2 million IDA credit (507-TA) in 1974 for improving the
maintenance of primary roads and for carrying out a study of the road trans-
port industry. Rail and port improvements in Tanzania have been financed by
the Bank Group through loans amounting to US$166 million to the EAC organiza-
tions concerned; the loans assisted with modernization and expansion of the
EAC railway and, inter alia, the port of Dar es Salaam.



-8-
Lessons
2.21      The First Highway Project has been reviewed in a report of the Oper-
ations Evaluation Department (June 1975). Because of delays and increased
costs under the First Highway Project, IDA reappraised and revised the proj-
ect and provided a supplementary credit to finance a scaled down project.
2.22      The report's major conclusions were that:
a) the actual cost of the revised project was 3% less than
estimated and that detailed engineering and construction
were carried out satisfactorily.
b) "the staffing and training program (which aimed at easing
road administration transition to Africanization) was
carried out to a very limited extent because of slowness
in recruiting expatriates, difficulties with training by
them and absolute shortage of African staff."
c) "the rather shaky information available suggests that
the overall economic return on the project probably
approximates the 11% estimated at appraisal."
2.23      As the proposed project depends heavily on the success of the tech-
nical assistance, the experience under the revised First Highway Project, as
well as subsequent experience associated with the use of consultants under
the Maintenance Project has been drawn on and the proposed project has been
designed to make efficient use of technical assistance provided; indeed, the
Government has already taken steps for mobilization of technical assistance
(para. 4.11).
2.24      The study of the road transport industry undertaken by TRIMAC
consultants (Canada) under the Fourth Highway Project (para. 2.20) identified
various weaknesses and problems but was not very successful in analyzing
problems and developing a remedial program, in part because of a lack of
detailed industry data. Accordingly, the proposed project will provide for
the collection of certain data in this field which will facilitate analysis of
industry problems and provide a basis for planning future development and
improvements.
3. THE TRUCKING INDUSTRY
A. Structure of the Industry
Private Sector
3.01      The private sector consists mostly of owner-operators, but it also
includes specialist transport cooperatives, and traders or manufacturers who
have trucks for their own needs and also offer services for hire. With the



-9-
advent of direct public participation in 1974, many private operators left
the industry; those that remained concentrated on the more lucrative long
haul business, withdrawing from short distance operations and from areas
where business was less profitable and roads poor.
Public Sector
3.02      Responsibility for public sector transport rests with the NTC, a
parastatal organization under the Ministry of Communications and Transport.
NTC controls the government-owned National Bus Service, Dar es Salaam Motor
Transport Company, and Tazania Coastal Shipping Line; the National Road
Haulage Company was also controlled by NTC for several years until it was
dissolved in April 1977 (Annex 3 and Chart 2). Although NTC does not it-
self directly engage in transport operations, it exercises substantial in-
fluence over the policies and activities of its subsidiary operating organi-
zations. In addition, the NTC recently assumed responsibility for the train-
ing of a wide range of skills in the transport field when it organized the
National Institute of Transport. NTC fulfills its duties adequately, parti-
cularly since the recent appointment of an able and energetic chairman and
managing director as its head.
3.03      Public sector trucking services, which account for one-third of
total services, are provided by transport parastatals and transport wings
in manufacturing, trading and crop parastatals. Until recently, public
trucking services included operations at the international, national and
regional level. International services were provided by the Long Distance
Division of the recently-liquidated National Road Haulage Company (NRHC),
which also provided inter-regional services. Regional services were provided
by NRHC's Hire Pool Division, by crop-marketing authorities and by the trans-
port wings of recently-dissolved cooperative unions. (Further details on
public transport entities are given in Annex 3.)
3.04      To replace these operations by a more efficient and reliable system,
the Government plans to use the trucks and other facilities of the disbanded
entities to form regional transport companies; this would permit effective
use of existing capacity because such companies could serve both as transport
operators and as regional coordination and clearing centers, with demand
for public and private transport channelled through them. During times of
peak demand in particular areas, private operators from other areas are
expected to supplement local trucking services.
3.05      To determine where initial regional efforts should be concentrated,
the Government, with assistance from the Association, identified five econom-
ically important areas which are particularly constrained by inadequate
trucking services: these areas are Dodoma (where a regional company has
recently begun operations), Mwanza, Tabora, Ruvuma and Mtwara regions (where
none exists) (Annex 4). Analysis of existing trucking facilities in these
regions showed that available private trucking services were limited; on the
other hand, total public sector fleet capacity was substantial but because
public services had been provided by entities whose transport operations were
inefficient, there has been considerable under-utilized public capacity
together with unsatisfied transport demand. While it may be possible to meet



- 10 -
some of this demand by encouraging private sector expansion, Government is
committed, as a matter of policy, to direct participation in the industry, and
it is not possible for the private sector to meet all of Tanzania's needs.
B. Truck Fleet
Fleet Size and Characteristics
3.06      Although information on the size and composition of the truck
fleet is incomplete (Tables 2, 3 and 4), it is known that since 1972 fleet
size has not changed significantly. On the basis of a 1971 survey and annual
new truck registrations through 1974 (Table 2), it is estimated that the
private and parastatal fleet (excluding Government ministry vehicles) in 1975
was about 13,000 vehicles (Table 5), of which 3,000 were publicly-owned and
10,000 private.
3.07      There is little data available on seasonal or total transport
demand or on available truck capacity. Although numerous transport users
interviewed reported that the size of the fleet is adequate for the nation's
truck transport requirements, Association staff feel there is not enough
information available on which to make a reasonable judgement as to optimum
fleet size. Because of the constraint that lack of vehicle fleet and opera-
ting data imposes on road transport planning, the technical assistance pro-
vided under the project will assist with setting up a data collection system
(para. 4.17). During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Gov-
ernment will set up such a system and collect data on a continuing basis.
3.08      More than half the trucks in the country in 1971 were of 6-ton
capacity or less; only 5% had a load capacity over 10 tons. More recently,
the trend is toward larger vehicles. However, almost all new trucks are
still single-unit vehicles. The Government should consider importing prime
mover/semi-trailer combinations, because of the operational and economic
advantages they can offer over single-unit vehicles in many instances.
Through the technical assistance to be provided under the proposed project,
the case for such articulated trucks in Tanzania will be studied (para. 4.17).
Geographic Distribution
3.09      In 1967, the latest year for which data are available, more than
one-third of the fleet served Dar es Salaam; somewhat more than one-third
were located in the four most developed rural regions, Arusha, Kilimanjaro,
Tanga and Mwanza, the first three of which are served relatively well by
existing transport services. The remaining regions in the country together
accounted for only about a quarter of the total fleet. This distribution
pattern still exists (Table 6).
3.10      During peak crop seasons in a given region, demand for trucking
services may substantially exceed the capacity of the region's available
trucks. Private sector truck operators attracted from outside the region by
the available business help meet this peak demand for transport.



- 11 -
Import of Trucks
3.11      Paragraph 1.03 describes the present vehicle import system and its
negative effects on the transport industry. While the consequences of the
import system on the industry are apparent, sufficiently detailed data on
industry requirements and their geographic spread are lacking. This problem
is addressed under the proposed project (para. 4.17).
C.  Traffic
3.12      The only available information on national truck traffic is the
TRIMAC (consultants, Canada) study financed under the Fourth Highway Project;
the consultants estimated truck traffic in 1974 to have been somewhere in the
region of 1,500 million ton-km, two-thirds of which was handled by the private
sector. There is insufficient information available on which to estimate
present or future traffic levels. Under the proposed project, assistance with
collecting traffic data will be provided (para. 4.17).
D. Regulations and Rates
Licensing of Vehicles, Drivers and Services
3.13      New vehicles are registered by the Central Motor Vehicle Registry,
but no annual license fees are collected. Recently, for safety considerations
the Government has undertaken a program of vehicle inspection. Drivers are
licensed after testing; these licenses are renewed every three years. Ser-
vice licenses for inter-regional hauls are issued by the central Transport
Licensing Authority (TLA); individual vehicles or companies receive such
licenses for specified routes. Regional TLAs issue licenses for general
freight operations within a region. Private truck operators have lowest
priority for service licenses. There is little data available on the num-
bers, types and duration of service licenses issued as the Licensing Author-
ities do not compile statistics, analyze demand or assess performance of
license holders. The technical assistance under the project will assist
with setting up a data collection and analysis system and will advise Gov-
ernment on service licensing policies and programs (para. 4.18).
Truck Weights, Dimensions and Inspections
3.14      The 1973 Road Traffic Act adequately regulates truck weights and
dimensions (Table 7). There had been significant overloading on the TANZAM
Highway, but as of December 1976, the Government began enforcing weight
restrictions and obliging overloaded vehicles to offload.  Information
is not available on the situation on other roads, but this matter is being
addressed under the Third and Fourth Highway Projects.
Rates and Fares
3.15      There is no national freight rate system in effect.  Truck trans-
port is relatively expensive, as high as US$0.22 per ton-km for general cargo;



- 12 -
this is because of poor road conditions (para. 2.09) and trucking inefficien-
cies, especially in the public sector. Rates charged by the private companies
vary according to type of cargo, road condition and the possibility of return
loads; the rates are revised frequently and are generally profitable. In
the public sector, rates are often negotiated. However, some crop marketing
parastatals, in conjunction with regional crop authorities, decide before
the harvest season what freight rates to offer truckers, and the Government
sometimes obliges public trucking companies to accept, without subsidy, the
offered rates, even if uneconomic. Of course, this form of Government in-
fluence on the public industry reduces the companies' financial viability.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that project companies be permitted
to negotiate economic rates for their services.
E. Industry Performance
3.16      While private sector trucking operations are relatively efficient,
the public sector is performing below a reasonable level of operational
efficiency and productivity, as measured by the low proportion of trucks
in working order and the low utilization rate of available trucks.
Truck Availability
3.17      Truck availability (ratio of vehicles in working order to total
vehicles) should be about 80% (based on operations of efficient transport
enterprises in other developing countries), but Association staff esti-
mates that on average not more than 60% of publicly-owned trucks are opera-
tionally available, with the remainder out-of-service for maintenance and
repairs. While detailed data are not available, interviews and direct obser-
vation in Tanzania show that private truck owners achieve a much higher
availability rate than parastatals whose low availability rates are due to:
i) inadequate truck maintenance and repair, in turn caused
by lack of adequate workshop facilities (para. 3.21) and
spare parts (para. 3.23-.26) and by insufficiently trained
maintenance personnel (para. 3.28);
ii) poor vehicle operation by untrained, poorly motivated
drivers (para. 3.28);
iii) lack of skilled management (para. 3.28); and
iv) poor road conditions (para. 2.09).
According to private truckers, their principal problems are the poor road
conditions, shortage of spare parts and difficulty in obtaining the trucks
required; even so, as noted above, this sector operates relatively efficiently.
Truck Utilization
3.18      Truck utilization (ratio of actual ton-km to ton-km capacity of
vehicles in working order) should be 70-80% of available transport capacity.



- 13 -
Based on TRIMAC estimates of available truck ton-km capacity in 1974, the
average parastatal utilized only 40% of available capacity. In contrast,
many private enterprises achieve 60% utilization in Tanzania.
3.19      Truck utilization in the public sector is constrained by four
factors. First, public sector trucking operations are limited by poor
management with little or no transport skills. Second, drivers are not
motivated to perform efficiently because they are paid low wages, below
private sector rates, and there are no incentives for good performance. Con-
sequently, they make little effort to secure backhauls for their companies
and often make return trips empty; the work of public sector drivers is
generally characterized by excessive loading and unloading times and slow
travel speeds. Third, because of the difficulty of obtaining spare parts for
the additional maintenance and repair work that would be necessary if their
trucks were used year-round, the cooperative and marketing parastatals tend
not to use their trucks for contract work in the off-season in order to
ensure truck availability for their own transport needs during peak season.
Finally, utilization is negatively affected by the poor condition of the road
network. The first three problems are addressed under the proposed project
with respect to the five project companies (paras. 4.09-.14). Further, the
increased availability of spare parts which will be effected through the
project (para. 4.16) will enable the whole industry to utilize its trucks more
intensively. Ongoing and planned actions by Government to improve road con-
ditions, which are outside the scope of this project, are described in para.
2.09.
3.20      The private sector's higher utilization rate is primarily attrib-
utable to the fact that it has a relatively strong financial incentive to
obtain maximum use of its vehicles. Therefore, the private operator loads and
unloads efficiently, achieves higher average vehicle speeds than parastatals,
carries full loads whenever practicable, searches for and finds backhaul loads
and generally accepts only profitable work.
F. Truck Maintenance and Repair
Workshops
3.21      The workshops run by the major vehicle dealers, located in Dar es
Salaam and in the larger regional centers, offer a comprehensive range of
services including major overhauls, and rebuilding and reconditioning of
major components. Both the quality and quantity of work produced there
is good. The remaining commercial workshops, which are frequently small
open-air facilities, offer generally poor services. Similarly, apart from a
few parastatals which have adequate workshops under competent supervision,
public sector repair operations are usually so poor that vehicles often are
out of service for long periods. This problem is addressed under the proposed
project with respect to the five project companies (para. 4.14).
3.22      The major private vehicle dealers employ the best mechanical staff
available, including some expatriates. However, most small commercial workshops



- 14 -
are owned and operated by inadequately trained people. Likewise, public
transport organizations have trouble recruiting trained and experienced staff.
The proposed project provides for the training of maintenance personnel, both
for the five project companies and for the overall needs of the industry
(paras. 4.10 and 4.15).
Spare Parts
3.23      Anticipating the establishment of Government controls in 1974 limit-
ing the availability of spare parts, dealers built up their stocks before the
controls went into effect, but these stocks are now being depleted. Further,
trucks compete with cars for the foreign exchange allocated for spare parts
imports; because new car imports for private use have been prohibited since
1973, the aging car fleet has been absorbing an increasing proportion of the
foreign exchange allocated for spare parts.
3.24      In 1976, there was an estimated net shortfall of about T Sh 30
million in the foreign exchange value of imported truck spares compared with
the estimated demand. A continuation of this situation would soon constrain
the industry, which has been surviving largely because of earlier stocks of
parts. On the other hand, a relaxation of controls would result in a surge
of imports because dealers would replenish their inventories. But provided
the dealers are confident of the continued relaxation of controls, such a
surge would most likely be a once only occurrence. The foreign exchange
shortage for spare parts is most seriously felt in the rural areas where, in
1976, seven regions received no foreign exchange for parts; 12 others together
received less than 10% of the total allocation, and over 90% was allocated to
the Dar es Salaam-based bazaars and dealers.
3.25      The overall absolute shortage of spares due to inadequate foreign
exchange allocations to the private sector is further aggravated by two
factors. First, as allocations are made biannually, importers must anticipate
demand over six months. Mtistakes in demand forecasting are amplified compared
to the situation before the controls went into effect when orders were placed
monthly. Second, major dealers (particularly franchise dealers), who receive
up to 40% of the foreign exchange allocation, often withhold parts from the
retail market in order to promote their repair businesses. In the public
sector, general parts availability is also constrained because the para-
statals, which receive adequate allocations for spare parts, generally lack
funds to actually purchase the parts and lack the personnel skilled in inven-
tory analysis or ordering.
3.26      The inadequacy of the present spare parts import system stems in
part from difficulties inherent in trying to tightly control the import of a
mix of highly specialized and diverse items for which demand is considerably
inelastic and geographically diffuse. Such difficulties are compounded by
the fact that, in the absence of an annual vehicle registration system since
1974, there are no detailed, reliable data on the size, composition and dis-
tribution of the vehicle fleet, which information is essential for economic
allocation of foreign exchange for spare parts. Association staff have main-
tained a dialogue with Government on this issue since appraisal and have
presented, to the Government, a written review of the effects of the spare
parts import control system on the transport industry and on the economy as



- 15 -
a whole. This has helped Government realize the severe constraints caused
by the control system and it is now seeking a means of remedying the situa-
tion; this effort will be supported under the proposed project and finance
is provided to help meet the import surge which would result from a substan-
tial relaxation of spare parts imports controls (para. 4.16).
G. Personnel
Private Sector
3.27      Of an estimated 32,000 persons engaged in trucking, the private
sector employs about 20,000. Approximately 5,800 owner-operators, who employ
about 5,800 laborers, account for 58% of private sector trucks. The remain-
ing private companies employ about 8,400 persons. The larger organizations,
especially those with more than 10 trucks, have specialists in management,
accounting, traffic operations, vehicle repair and maintenance, and they hire
and train their own drivers.
Public Sector
3.28      Public sector transport comprises about 2,100 persons in administra-
tion and traffic control, 3,600 drivers, 4,200 driver assistants and laborers
and about 2,100 mechanics and servicing staff. After the Government decided
to enter the industry directly, the public companies were formed rapidly.
However, most people with knowledge and experience in transport management
were in the private sector where wages, incentives and conditions were more
attractive than those offered by the new public organizations. Thus, the
publicly-owned operations were staffed, and are still operated by people with
limited knowledge of the industry. Most of these organizations have large and
complex organizational structures with much higher staff-to-truck ratios than
in the private companies (an average of four staff per truck, compared with
two per truck in the private sector).
Recruitment and Training
3.29      The managerial, accounting, mechanical and vehicle-operation skills
required by the trucking industry are in short supply because of insufficient
training capacity and number of recruits with basic education for further
training, and competition from other sectors. The fact that the private
sector recruits the most competent and efficient people available intensifies
the recruitment problems of the public organizations. Further, the demand
for qualified recruits for the industry as a whole, but especially in the
public sector, has been and is expected to continue increasing.
Training Programs
3.30      Until early 1976, there were no formal training programs specifi-
cally for the road transport industry, which had to compete with other sec-
tors for trained people from existing training centers. To alleviate this
problem, in 1974 the National Transport Corporation (NTC) established the



- 16 -
National Institute of Transport (NIT), which started operations in early 1976
in temporary quarters with 6 full-time instructors and 10 part-time lecturers.
It initially offered a 3-month course on Transport Management for 30 students
and is continuing such short-term courses while student accommodations are
being constructed with funds from Transport License Authority revenues, as NIT
receives 50% of total annual licensing fees. When the accommodations are
completed, NIT will begin full-time, three-year diploma courses in Management,
Operations and Mechanics, which will start supplying the public and private
industry with trained recruits by 1980. However, there will be a continuing
need for short-term courses for people already in the industry, and the
proposed project provides for this (para. 4.15).
3.31      There is also a need for on-the-job training, particularly in the
poorly staffed public transport organizations. On-the-job training would be
the most rapid and effective means of upgrading skills, and the critical areas
for such training are in management, accounting, vehicle care, maintenance,
driving and supplies management. The proposed project also provides for
on-the-job training of public sector transport personnel in the project
companies (para. 4.10).
4. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The proposed project aims to support Government's efforts to re-
verse the deteriorating trend in truck transport, a mode upon which the
predominantly agricultural economy depends heavily. While early improvements
will necessarily be modest, the experience and skills gained under the proj-
ect are expected to provide a basis for subsequent comprehensive rehabilita-
tion and improvement of the transport industry.
B. Description
4.02      The project consists of:
(i) the establishment and initial operation of five public
trucking companies, including:
(a) technical assistance for management, operations,
and training;
(b) procurement of necessary trucks and rehabilita-
tion of existing trucks; and
(c) provision of repair facilities;



- 17 -
(ii) improvement of the overall public and private trucking
industry through:
(a) strengthening NIT through provision of instruc-
tors, and teaching aids and equipment; and
(b) replenishing of spare parts inventori s and
improvement of the spare parts and truck import
systems and;
(iii) technical assistance to the NTC for project coordination
and monitoring, and policy advice.
Establishment and Operation of Five Public Trucking Companies
4.03      This component will assist the Government in its attempt to initiate
improvement of public trucking services to meet currently unsatisfied demand.
The assistance provided will enable the Government to make the most economic
use of existing public trucking facilities by supporting its effort to set
up and operate a regional trucking company through consolidation of existing
public enterprises in each of the five selected regions (paras. 3.04-.05).
Each company will be a general carrier public trucking entity with a
franchise to operate both within the region where based and between that
region and other regions.  While demand-tor-trucking services in a given
region during the peak crop season may substantially exceed available fleet
capacity (para. 3.10), it would be uneconomic to provide a permanent fleet in
each affected region to meet this demand; further, this demand could not be
evened out simply by increasing storage facilities because of spoilage.
However, the necessary additional services could be satisfactorily provided by
the private sector fleet to supplement regional efforts.
4.04      At this stage, in the absence of detailed information on local
conditions and needs, it would not be meaningful to try to anticipate exact
fleet, organizational, manpower and equipment requirements for the five
companies. These precise requirements will be determined through the tech-
nical assistance provided for each company, together with the most suitable
means of meeting identified needs taking into account facilities provided
from dissolved public trucking entitiesi 
4.05      Each of the five regional trucking companies will be formed ini-
tially with fleet capacity to be taken over from existing and defunct public
trucking operators. The Dodoma regional company, which began operations in
mid-1976, has already received 13 trucks from the transport wing of a li-
quidated cooperative union and will take over about 19 additional trucks from
other sources to be nominated by the Government. The Mwanza company will begin
operations with about 65 trucks, Tabora about 20, Mtwara about 90 and Ruvuma
about 55. The specific sources of these vehicles will be determined in the
study (para. 4.04) and subsequent review to be undertaken immediately prior to
the formation of each company, and will depend on the shareholders involved
and ownership structure. Of the trucks to be allocated to the regional com-
panies, some could not be economically rehabilitated and will be replaced



- 18 -
with new trucks under the project. During negotiations agreement was reached
with the Government that the Companies will be formed under terms and condi-
tions, including ownership, financial participation, assets and operations
and management arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, and fleets
transferred to them as described above. Further, it was agreed that this
will be accomplished by June 1978 for Dodoma, by December 1978 for Mwanza
and Ruvuma, by March 1979 for Tabora and by June 1979 for Mtwara.
4.06      Although detailed forecasts and breakdowns of individual company
structures and financial statements cannot be usefully prepared at present,
Bank staff have reviewed the performance of typical transport parastatals in
Tanzania and, also, of the one or two relatively efficient transport opera-
tions in the country, on the basis of which the general structural features
of each company have been set out (Chart 3) and operational performance tar-
gets have been established (Table 9). These target figures have been used
in the economic analysis of the proposed aid to the five companies (paras.
5.05-.07) and represent reasonably attainable objectives for them. Opera-
tional targets will be included in the terms and conditions under which each
of the five companies will be formed (para. 4.05). Agreement was reached
with Government that, in consultation with the Association, it will establish
a system for monitoring operating performance (Annex 7). Further, because
of the negative effect on the public industry of the Government's present
influence on freight rates (para. 3.15), agreement was reached that the five
companies will be under autonomous operational and financial management. To
assure availability of foreign exchange and transport licenses, and import
permits required for the companies' efficient and economic operation and for
the timely implementation of the project, it was agreed that all such licenses
and permits will be issued promptly as needed. In addition, to avoid in-
efficient proliferation and expansion of parastatal transport wings, it was
agreed that the merits and reasons for proposals to create new, or substan-
tially increase existing, truck fleets of public entities serving the project
regions will be discussed with the Association. Also, agreement was reached
that proposals and recommendations significantly affecting the operation and
organization of project companies and their effects on the trucking industry,
will be discussed with the Association as and when they are being considered.
4.07      While detailed financial forecasts cannot meaningfully be made at
this stage, it is possible to project anticipated financial performance in
general terms. By 1980, the five companies are expected to have about 264
trucks handling about 59 million ton-km of traffic at an average cost of
T Sh 0.8 per ton-km (Tables 10, 11 and 12). On this basis, operating expenses
would then be about T Sh 47 million. By that year, these companies should be
able to obtain sufficient revenue to cover expenses and generate some surplus
for reinvestment. Assuming the trucking organizations realize an average
revenue of T Sh 0.9 per ton-km, operating revenue would be about T Sh 52 mil-
lion and a surplus of T Sh 5 million would result (Table 11).
4.08      To assist with the establishment and initial operation of the five
companies, the proposed project will provide each company with the necessary
a) technical assistance advisors, b) procurement of trucks, c) rehabilitation
of economically reparable trucks, and d) truck repair facilities.



- 19 -
a) Technical Assistance
4.09      While it would be possible to introduce a team of experts to set
up and manage each company, Association staff feel that, since the project
aims to assist the Tanzanians in developing the capacity to run their own
companies, there is a greater likelihood of achieving this aim if the tech-
nical assistance takes the form of advisors to management with respect to
organization, planning, personnel policy, financial management, fleet manage-
ment and operations, as well as providing training for drivers, repair and
maintenance personnel.
4.10      For each company, a technical assistance advisor will be provided
for the General Manager to assist with organizational, management, operational
and supervisory requirements, including pay rates and incentives, marketing
and scheduling. An advisor for the Chief Accountant will assist in operating
costing and accounting systems, rate determination and billing procedures.
An advisor to the Service Manager will train specialists in operating a spare
parts inventory control system, as well as in preventive maintenance systems
and workshop management. Finally, an instructor will be provided for mech-
anics and drivers. (Terms of reference for technical assistance are detailed
in Annex 5).
4.11      As mentioned in para. 1.07, the effort to establish viable public
trucking companies includes attendant risks, which relate mainly to the antic-
ipated benefits from technical assistance. However, the transport problem
being addressed is a critical one and Association staff believe that the proj-
ect represents the only feasible approach likely to yield productive results
in present circumstances (paras. 1.06-.07). Every reasonable precaution has
been taken to minimize risk. Vigorous efforts by the Government to recruit
technical assistants are already underway. In addition, the Government is
anxious to provide prompt logistical support (housing or caravan accommodation
and vehicles) in order to ensure early mobilization of technical assistance.
To assist in this, retroactive financing under the project is recommended
(para. 4.26). Further, the setting up of the project companies will be phased
so that experience gained can be drawn upon as the project unfolds. Finally,
detailed coordination and monitoring of all project activities is provided for
(para. 4.18). With these measures, there is every reason to expect that the
project's objectives with respect to improving public trucking will be
achieved.
b) Procurement of Trucks and Rehabilitation of Existing Trucks
4.12      As the fleet requirements of each project company are not now known
in detail, the technical assistance advisors will assist the company managers
in making such assessments. They will take into consideration the condition
of the existing truck fleets of dissolved public entities with a view toward
determining which trucks are in good condition or economically reparable and
can thus form the basis of a regional company fleet. Association staff
estimate that about 160 trucks, representing about half of the proposed
fleets, will warrant replacement and, accordingly, the project provides



- 20 -
financing for replacing these trucks; however, the sizes and other specifi-
cations of the new trucks may differ from those replaced, depending upon
needs of the companies.
4.13      An estimated 130 trucks earmarked for the five regional companies
require rehabilitation, as do approximately 40 buses which are an integral
part of the fleets of two of the companies. The project companies, assisted
by the advisors, will diagnose the work each vehicle needs, procure the
necessary parts, and then contract this work to competent private workshops,
according to agreed procedures (para. 4.24).
c) Provision of Truck Repair Facilities
4.14      The project companies, in order to operate efficiently, will re-
quire well-equipped and staffed company workshops. As existing facilities
are completely inadequate (para. 3.21), the project provides for the neces-
sary workshops, including vehicle testing facilities, machines and hand
tools. The facilities to be provided will be adequate for day-to-day
servicing, running repairs and preventive maintenance; for major repairs and
overhauls the companies will rely on independent service organizations, which
are considered adequate.
Assistance to the Overall Public and Private Trucking Sector
4.15      (a)  Strengthening of NIT.  Although NIT has recently been provided
with excellent classroom buildings and a skeletal staff, the Institute needs
strengthening, particularly of its instructional staff, teaching aids and
equipment if it is to upgrade the capabilities of public and private transport
personnel (para. 3.30). Accordingly, the project provides for four technical
assistance instructors, one for trucking management, another for accounting, a
third to handle the training of mechanics and drivers, and another to train
supplies managers; also provided are workshop equipment and teaching aids.
The four instructors will conduct both short courses at the NIT facility in
Dar es Salaam and field training sessions in various regional centers (Annexes
5 and 6).
4.16      (b)  Replenishing of Spare Parts Inventories and Improvement of
the Spare Parts and Truck Import Systems. The proposed project will support
the Government in its effort to address the spare parts problem. Financing
is provided for the Government to cover the foreign exchange of spare parts
needed to enable spare parts dealers to replenish depleted inventories (paras.
3.23-.26); the ultimate buyers of the parts procured will pay for them in
local currency. Further, and more importantly, technical assistance advisors
will assist the Government in reviewing its spare parts import system. Dur-
ing negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government will submit
for approval to the Association by March 31, 1978, a plan designed to ensure
adequate availability and distribution of vehicle spare parts.
4.17      The present truck import system results in spare parts, repair and
training problems and the use of less appropriate vehicles for some opera-
tions (paras. 3.08 and 3.11). The lack of necessary transport data also



- 21 -
seriously constrains transport planning (paras. 3.07 and 3.12). During nego-
tiations, agreement was reached that commodity and traffic flow data and
statistics will be collected and analyzed to assist in formulating future
trucking industry policies and programs. Technical assistance advisors will
help establish a procedure for collecting and analyzing information on truck
fleet and traffic. The advisors will also assist the Government in examining
its truck import policy with a view toward ensuring adequate availability of
appropriate trucks (paras. 1.03 and 3.11).
Technical Assistance for Project Coordination
4.18      Project coordination will be the responsibility of the NTC which
plays an important role in the development of public sector road transport
(para. 3.02 and Annex 3). This organization will need some strengthening
to fulfill its responsibility. Accordingly, a Coordinator with considerable
knowledge of the trucking industry is required. The basic role of the Project
Coordinator (Annex 5) will be to monitor the performance of the public com-
panies assisted under the project and to train counterparts who would then
monitor and coordinate future trucking programs. He will also monitor and
coordinate project activities at NIT and of other technical assistants who
will advise Government on the spare parts and vehicle import system; take an
active role in recruiting the technical assistants, including training
specialists, for the transport companies and the NIT; review all documents
related to procurement of new trucks, truck rehabilitation services, spare
parts, workshop facilities, and teaching aids and equipment; serve NTC as
trucking policy advisor; and assist in establishing a data collection system
mentioned in para. 4.17. Based on the results of and experience gained from
the project, the Project Coordinator will assist Government to prepare an
action plan for organizing, improving and strengthening the trucking industry
in Tanzania; this action plan should include an explicit strategy and program
regarding future public sector involvement in the industry. To help the
Coordinator in procurement matters, an assistant will also be provided.
C. Cost Estimate
4.19      Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
US$18.2 million, or US$17.3 million net of taxes and duties. The foreign
exchange component is US$15.1 million, or 83% of total cost. Taxes and
duties represent about 5% of total costs. Estimated costs are shown below:



- 22 -
----T Sh millions----  ----US$ millions----    Foreign
Foreign  Local  Total  Foreign  Local  Total  Componen
1. Project Coordination                   2.50   0.25    2.75   0.30    0.03    0.33          91
2. Assistance to Transport Companies
a) training & technical assistance  19.83   2.08   21.91   2.38    0.25    2.63            91
b) truck rehabilitation
i) parts                           2.67   0.33    3.00   0.32    0.04    0.36          89
ii) labor                            -      1.50    1.50      -     0.18    0.18         0
c) repair facilities
i) materials, equipment
and spares                      3.66   0.75    4.41   0.44    0.09    0.53         83
ii) labor                            -      1.00    1.00      -     0.12    0.12         0
d) new trucks & spares                39.42  11.08   50.50   4.73    1.33    6.06          78
3. Assistance to NIT
a) Instructors                         2.58   0.25    2.83   0.31    0.03    0.34          91
b) Equipment & teaching aids            1.67   0.50    2.17   0.20    0.06    0.26         75
4. Assistance for spare parts & truck
imports analysis and management         1.67   0.17    1.84   0.20    0.02    0.22         91
5. Truck spare parts' imports            25.00   2.50   27.50   3.00    0.30    3.30          91
Subtotal                       99.00  20.41  119.41  11.88    2.45   14.33         83
6. Contingencies
a) Physical: 10% for (1) to (4)        7.42   1.75    9.17   0.89    0.21    1.10          81
b) Price: 10% p.a. for 1, 2a,
2b(ii), 2c(ii), 3(a) & 4;  8.00   1.25    9.25   0.96    0.15    1.11           86
7-1/2% p.a. for 1977
to 1979 and 7% p.a.
after 1979 for 2b(i),
2c(i), 2d, 3b, & 5         11.50   2.50   14.00   1.38    0.30    1.68          83
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   125.92  25.91  151.83  15.11    3.11   18.22          83
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(net of taxes and duties)            125.92  18.00  143.92  15.11    2.16   17.27
4.20      The base costs, as of July 1977, the date of negotiations,
were derived as follows:
(i) Technical Assistance: a total of 816 man-months ranging
from US$3,000 to US$5,000 per man-month, plus travel,
local subsistence and allowances, based on recent con-
tract rates for technical assistance to the MOW;



- 23 -
(ii) New Trucks: based on current prices of, and duties on,
truck imports for 100 trucks of average 12-ton capacity
at a retail price of US$39,500 and 60 trucks of average
7-ton capacity at a retail price of US$17,500 (actual
sizes and numbers of trucks to be determined as indi-
cated in para. 4.12);
(iii) Truck Rehabilitation: based on estimates by trucking
companies and Bank Group staff; provision is made for
US$2,500 for spare parts and US$1,200 for labor per truck
for immediate rehabilitation, and US$1,000 per truck for
a stock of spare parts;
(iv) Truck Repair Facilities: based on estimates by trucking
companies, workshop owners and Bank Group staff;
(v) Equipment and Teaching Aids for NIT: based on estimates
by NIT and Bank Group staff;
(vi) Truck Spare Parts Imports: based on 1976 shortfall of
imports against demand; and
(vii) Contingencies: 10% allowed for physical contingencies
for all but the general allocation for truck spare parts
imports; 10% per annum price contingency for technical
assistance and local labor; for trucks, spare parts,
materials, equipment and teaching aids, price contingency
provided at 7-1/2% p.a. for 1977, 1978 and 1979 and 7%
p.a. after 1979, in accordance with Bank Group estimates.
D. Financing
4.21      The US$15.0 million IDA credit will finance about 100% of the
US$15.1 million of the foreign cost of the project, or about 87% of total
project cost net of taxes and duties. The Government will provide the
remaining US$3.22 million, or US$2.27 million excluding taxes and duties.
E. Implementation
4.22      The NTC will be responsible for executing the project.  During
negotiations agreement was reached with Government on the establishment
of an implementation schedule, progress reporting procedures and project
monitoring indices. Indicative implementation schedules and project moni-
toring indices are shown in Charts 4 and 5 and Annex 7. Within NTC, the
various project activities will be coordinated by a Project Coordinator
(para. 4.18). Technical assistance will begin in early 1978 and end in 1982.
Procurement of new trucks and rehabilitation of existing ones, together with
construction and equipping of workshops, will be carried out during 1978-80.



- 24 -
Spare parts will be procured in 1978-79. The anticipated project completion
date is December 1982.
4.23      The Tanzanian Rural Development Bank (TRDB) will be the intermediary
for channelling all financial assistance, except that for technical assist-
ance, to the five project companies. TRDB has been involved as a financial
intermediary in a number of Bank Group projects and is familiar with Bank
group requirements, procedures and practices. Because of its past experience
in lending to the road transport industry and its capable management, TRDB
will be able to guide the formation and operations of the project companies
along practical and efficient lines.
F. Procurement
4.24      All procurement will be arranged and coordinated by NTC, assisted
by the technical experts provided under the project, through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), International Shopping (IS), local competitive
bidding and local shopping as described in the Bank Group's "Guidelines for
Procurement". ICB or IS will be used to procure;
(a) new trucks and associated spare parts through ICB to an
estimated value of US$6.06 million from suppliers who
will be required to provide an adequate service, repair
and maintenance organization and a reasonable inventory
of spare parts in Tanzania;
(b) equipment for the trucking companies' workshops and for
the NIT through ICB to an estimated value of US$500,000;
(c) spare parts for rehabilitating existing trucks through IS
to an estimated value of US$500,000. Trucks for the five
regional companies will be repaired under separate con-
tracts, spaced at six-to-nine month intervals, both to
take account of the staged schedule of setting up the
companies and of the work volume capacity of commercial
workshops; IS is appropriate because these are a limited
number of suppliers of spare parts for the known types of
trucks involved; and
(d) teaching aids for NIT through IS to an estimated value of
US$60,000.
The necessary labor for rehabilitating existing trucks to a total value of
about US$180,000 will be obtained by local shopping with competent local
commercial workshops (usually franchise holders) under separate contracts
for each trucking company and, if necessary, for each type of truck involved.
Contracts for the construction of workshop buildings to a total value of about
US$210,000 will be awarded under local competitive bidding procedures which
were agreed during negotiations, on separate contracts for each of the five
companies involved. Other spare parts imports under the project's spare parts



- 25 -
component (para. 4.19), amounting to US$3.3 million, will be procured by the
various dealers and merchants to whom the foreign exchange will be allocated
by SMC, subject to IDA agreement on the proposed plan for allocations.
4.25      Other procurement of US$3.52 million is for technical assistance to
be recruited by NTC. The NTC will arrange for recruitment and hiring of all
technical assistance under the project and will make the experts available to
the trucking companies and Government entities involved at no charge to those
bodies because the central focus of these will be to create a widely applic-
able model for the trucking industry throughout the country, and accordingly
their cost should not be borne by the first companies to be assisted.  Equity
capital will be subscribed by the shareholders, and all other assistance to
the trucking companies will be in the form of loans; IDA funds will be onlent
through the TRDB, and local funds will be provided by Government through TRDB
loans, the conditions, terms, and procedures of which were agreed at negotia-
tions.  IDA funds will be lent to TRDB at 4% for 10 years, including 2 years
of grace. These funds will then be relent by TRDB to the project companies at
8-1/2% for 5 years, including one year of grace.
4.26      During negotiations, agreement was reached that suitably quali-
fied technical assistants will be employed under the project by agreed dates
and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and that the
Project Coordinator and his assistant will be appointed as soon as possible
and in no case later than December 1977. Recruitment efforts are already
underway for the Project Coordinator and an Advisor on spare parts and truck
import policy. It was also agreed that a qualified counterpart will be
assigned to each technical assistant on the appointment of the related
technical assistant.
G. Disbursements
4.27      Credit disbursements will be made on the basis of 100% of the
foreign cost and 70% of the local cost of technical assistance, new trucks,
spare parts, materials, equipment and teaching aids. Because the technical
assistance is vital to achieving project objectives (para 4.11), retroactive
financing up to US$75,000 is recommended for technical assistance to NTC,
to enable the Government to provide prompt logistical support (housing or
caravan accommodation, furniture, household articles, and vehicles) and thus
mobilize the technical assistance as early as possible. A disbursement sched-
ule is shown in Table 8. A project completion report will be prepared by the
NTC within six months after final disbursement. For the loans to the five
trucking companies, the execution and delivery of a loan agreement between
the TRDB and each project company, under terms, conditions and procedures
satisfactory to the Association, will be a condition of disbursement of funds
to assist the respective companies. For the replenishment of spare parts
inventories, the submission by the Government of, and agreement between the
Government and the Association to, a plan to ensure adequate availability
and distribution of appropriate spare parts will be a condition of disburse-
ment of that part of the credit. Any surplus funds at the completion of the
project could be used to assist the formation or strengthening of additional
public trucking companies.



- 26 -
H. Environmental Aspects
4.28      The project is not expected to have any significant environmental
effects.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01      The project will assist the Government in rehabilitating and
improving an important part of Tanzania's trucking industry, which accounts
for a significant proportion of the total transport service in the country.
The five public companies will benefit from suitably trained personnel,
adequate truck fleets and workshop facilities, and appropriate operating
procedures, all of which should result in efficient and financially strong
companies. In addition, private and other public trucking organizations will
benefit from the project, particularly through the NIT training program, and
improved availability of suitable trucks and spare parts. The project com-
ponents concerned with these efforts will contribute to raising the competence
of personnel and improving the availability and utilization of truck fleets;
as a result, the financial condition of trucking entities will be improved.
5.02      Transport improvement will benefit numerous consumers, farmers,
merchants and others through reduced cost of truck transportation. In an
industry characterized by a high degree of private sector competition, re-
ductions in vehicle operating costs are generally passed on to the shippers,
in the first instance, through lower rates. Publicly-owned truck companies
will charge rates no higher than necessary to cover their costs and generate
sufficient surpluses for reinvestment. Thus, the reduced trucking costs to
be realized as a result of the project will be translated into more economic
services. Moreover, the project will have a favorable effect on transport
reliability and, therefore, there will be fewer transport delays, with re-
duced losses associated with such delays. Lower trucking costs and improved
reliability of service will undoubtedly have a stimulating effect on general
economic development.
B. Areas of Influence of Project
5.03      The project will influence truck transport primarily in the five
selected regions, although its effects will be felt to some extent throughout
the country. Improved availability of spare parts and trucks, as well as the
training of personnel of the industry, will have a nationwide impact.
5.04      Certain regions will benefit particularly from the project element
concerned with assisting the five regional transport companies. These
regions - Mwanza, Tabora, Mtwara, Ruvuma and Dodoma - are widely scattered



- 27 -
(see Map), and collectively represent about a fourth of the country's pop-
ulation and area. Agriculture heavily predominates in all five regions
although the crop mix varies considerably among them (Annex 4). All of
these regions are road improvements and a strengthened trucking industry
are clearly needed. While this project will assist in the latter respect,
other projects are directed toward road construction and improved main-
tenance.
C. Economic Analysis of Aid to Selected Trucking Companies
5.05      Assistance to five selected trucking companies is the principal
project component, representing 68% of the total T Sh 119.4 million economic
cost. The basis for the economic analysis of this component, as set out
below, is an assessment of costs and benefits with and without the proposed
project over the estimated economic life of the principal capital inputs
(trainers/advisors, truck rehabilitation, workshop structures and equipment
and new trucks with spare parts) including physical contingencies; the quan-
tified benefits are savings in truck transport costs. The without-project
case consists of parastatal trucking companies, not private sector trucking,
because the Government is firmly committed to the participation of publicly-
owned operations in this field; performance of parastatal trucking companies
has been generally poor (paras. 3.17 and 3.19). Estimates show the proposed
investment in the companies to be economically sound, yielding a 37% economic
return (Table 13).
5.06      Costs.  Costs of various elements of this project component, includ-
ing a 10% physical contingency, have been estimated, exclusive of taxes and
duties, as of July 1977:
Item                          Cost
(T Sh '000)
Trainers/Advisors                              24,011
Truck Rehabilitation                            5,048
Workshop Structures                             2,165
Workshop Equipment                              3,650
Replacement Trucks with Spare Parts            46,690
Total                            81,564
Shadow pricing the foreign exchange component of these costs, at 1.33 of
the official rate of exchange, yields an economic cost of T Sh 95.4 million,
which is used in the economic analysis.
5.07      Quantified Benefits.  Savings in truck transport costs comprise the
principal benefit from the assistance to the five companies. These savings



- 28 -
have been estimated on the basis of comparative costs of providing trucking
service. Present operating costs (excluding depreciation) are relatively
high at about T Sh 1.2 per ton-kilometer of actual traffic, compared with
mission estimates of anticipated T Sh 1.0 per ton-kilometer for the companies
in 1978, declining to T Sh 0.9 in 1979 and T Sh 0.8 in 1980, when the project
will have a major impact on operations (Table 9). The reduced unit costs
will result largely from improvements in operating performance as measured
by truck availability (ratio of operational trucks to total trucks) and load
factors (ratio of actual load to load capacity), both of which are presently
very low. The combined effect of training, truck rehabilitation and new
trucks with spare parts, and new workshops is forecast to raise the truck
availability ratio from 0.50 or less to about 0.80 and the load factor
from about 0.50 to 0.70 (Table 9). Consequently, the companies' output
(ton-kilometers of traffic), based on project inputs, will be substantially
higher than would be the case without the project. Savings in transport cost
(Table 13) rise from T Sh 5.9 million in 1978 to T Sh 23.4 million in 1980;
the subsequent cost savings result, in part, from the expectation that as
units are retired after the end of their estimated four-year economic life,
the companies will acquire additional equipment based on self-generated funds
to enable them to achieve a continuing traffic growth.
D. Economic Analysis of Spare Parts Imports
5.08      The project component for replenishing spare parts inventories
represents 23% of the project's total economic cost. These spare parts
would permit better utilization of existing trucks. The economic cost of
the spare parts imports is estimated at T Sh 75 million but the benefits,
though undoubtedly large, are difficult to estimate (Table 14). The prin-
cipal benefit will be the avoidance of losses caused by current deficiencies
in transport capacity, these losses comprising crop spoilage, reduced in-
comes and the like. Another type of benefit will be the avoided capital
cost of new trucks to overcome the current deficiency in transport capacity.
While the potential transport capability based on the spare parts imports
would be sizeable, there is uncertainty as to how much of this capability
would actually be utilized. However, even if one assumes that only a third
of the capability would be employed, the economic return would be 38%.
E. Economic Evaluation of Other Project Components
5.09      An economic return on the other project components, mostly for
training, which account for about 9% of total economic cost of the project,
has not been calculated; however, benefits will be well in excess of costs.
The technical assistance will help address the variety of problems discussed
above which face the trucking sector. Aid to NIT will enable the country to
make a greater effort in training manpower for the trucking industry and thus
raise the quality of trucking management and operations; this will result in



- 29 -
more reliable and lower cost transport. The project coordination component
of the project will be beneficial in that project implementation will be
more satisfactory with the participation of the coordination unit.
F. Sensitivity Analysis
5.10      Sensitivity of the 37% economic return on the principal component
of the project has been analyzed, taking into consideration possible in-
creases in costs and reductions in benefits. Due to the shortage of suffi-
cient accurate data, estimates of benefits from savings in transport costs
were calculated conservatively and are unlikely to be reduced. Provisions
made under the project for central coordination and detailed monitoring of
project activities are also designed to ensure that anticipated benefits
materialize. The Government is also making vigorous efforts to ensure that
technical assistance, which will provide the major part of quantified bene-
fits, will be mobilized early and fully used. In any event, even if quan-
tified benefits are reduced by 15% and costs increased by 15%, the rate of
return would still be a satisfactory 21%. Overall, Association staff believe
that the project, which represents a necessarily modest attempt to begin
alleviating the serious bottleneck that inefficient trucking services imposes
on the country's economic activity, is likely to effect initial improvements
which will provide a basis for more comprehensive gains in future as the
sector's absorptive capacity for assistance increases.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government:
(i)  that it will establish and implement procedures for
the systematic collection and evaluation nationwide
of data with respect to number, age, size, location
and ownership for all motor vehicles; seasonal and
total transport demand; available truck capacity; and
trucking industry performance and financial condition
(para 3.07, 3.12 and 4.17);
(ii)  that the five transport companies to be assisted under
the project will be:
(a) formed under terms and conditions including owner-
ship, financial participation, assets and opera-
tional and management arrangements satisfactory
to the Association and in receipt of their truck
fleets as described in paras. 4.04-.05 by the dates
specified in para. 4.05;



- 30 -
(b)  issued promptly all necessary foreign exchange
and transport licenses, and import permits re-
quired for efficient and economic operations and
for the timely implementation of the project
(para. 4.06); and
(c)  a general carrier public trucking entity with a
region-wide and inter-regional franchise (para.
4.06);
(d)  under autonomous operational and financial man-
agement (para. 4.06);
(e)  permitted to negotiate economic rates for their
services (para. 3.15);
(iii)  that proposals to create new, or substantially increase
existing, truck fleets of public entities serving the
project regions will be discussed with the Association
as and when these proposals are being considered (para.
4.06);
(iv) on establishment of a project implementation schedule,
monitoring indices and progress reporting for all
project components (paras. 4.06, 4.18 and 4.22);
(v) that proposals and recommendations which would significantly
affect the operations and organization of project companies
and their effects on the trucking industry will be discussed
with the Association as and when they are being considered
(para. 4.06).
(vi) that, by March 31, 1978, a plan designed to ensure adequate
availability of appropriate spare parts will be submitted
to the Association for approval (para. 4.16);
(vii) on procurement procedures for trucks, spare parts,
equipment and other items provided under the project
(para. 4.24);
(viii)  on terms, conditions and procedures for onlending credit
proceeds allocated to the five trucking companies (para.
4.25);
(ix) that suitably qualified technical assistants will be
retained under the project according to an agreed time
schedule and under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association (para. 4.26);
(x) that the Project Coordinator and the Assistant will be
appointed by December 1977 (para. 4.26); and



- 31 -
(xi)  that a suitable counterpart will be assigned to each
technical assistant provided under the project and,
by an agreed date, IDA will be given the opportunity
to review the qualifications of the proposed counter-
parts, with appointments to take place within three
months of the IDA review (para. 4.26);
(xii) that a Project Completion Report will be prepared with-
in six months after final disbursement (para. 4.27).
(xiii) that an action plan for organizing, improving and
strengthening the trucking industry in Tanzania will
be prepared based on the results of and experience
gained from the project; such action plan to include
an explicit strategy and program regarding future
public sector involvement in the industry (para. 4.18).
6.02      The execution and delivery of the loan agreement between the TRDB
and each project company will be a condition of disbursement of Credit Funds
for truck rehabilitation, repair facilities and new trucks and spare parts
for the respective trucking companies (para 4.27).
6.03      The approval by the Association of a plan to ensure adequate avail-
ability of appropriate spare parts will be a condition of disbursement of
funds provided under the Credit for replenishment of spare parts inventories
(para. 4.27).
6.04      With the agreements and under the conditions outlined above, the
proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$15 million, on the
standard terms, to Tanzania.
SeDtember 21. 1977






TABLE 1
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Road User Charges
Import Duties on Fuel, Vehicles and Tires and Tubes
Gasoline                                                  T Sh 600/m3
Diesel                                                    T Sh 400/m3
Crude Petroleum                                           T Sh 600/m3
Partly Refined Petroleum                                  T Sh 600/m3
Tires and Tubes                                               30%
Road Tractors for semi-trailers                               20%
Passenger cars 1,500-1,750 cc                                 60%
Passenger cars 1,750-2,000 cc                                 75%
Passenger cars 2,000-2,250 cc                                100%
Passenger cars over 2,250 cc                                 150%
Trucks over 3 tons                                            20%
Other vehicles                                               Free
Government Revenues from Road User Charges (T Sh millions)
FY73   FY74   FY75   FY76*  FY77*
Motor Vehicle Registration Tax            7.9    9.9    1.7    2.0    0.3
Motor Vehicle Licenses                   28.6    5.5    6.1    5.0    4.1
Motor Vehicle Transfer Tax                5.7    5.7    7.7    3.0    7.6
Transport Licenses                        4.7    5.1   11.5    7.0   11.0
Total:            46.9   26.2   27.0   17.0   23.0
* Estimated
Source: Tanzania Ministry of Finance, 1977.
September 1977



TABLE 2
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Motor Vehicles - New Registrations, 1962-74
Light Com-
mercial       Motor       Lorries        Buses &      Tractors   Trailers   Other   Total
Year            Cars           Vehicles        cycles   and Trucks        Coaches          2/                     3/   Vehicles
1/
All Vehicles (Private and Government):
1962           3,488           1,141           794            955             233           397        367         13    7,418
1963           3,780           1,103           682            879             279           692        271         12    7,702
1964           3,285           1,345           824          1,212             357           648         436        23    8,130
1965           2,776           1,427         1,033          1,011             412           858         276        16    7,809
1966           3,238           1,816         1,002          2,086             349           664         116         9    9,276
1967           2,937           1,784         1,027          1,680             299           928           3        33    8,691
1968           3,313           1,963         1,081          1,758             495           686        341         62    9,735
1969           3,276           1,908         1,165          1,490             494           734         214        19    9,300
1970           3,392           1,859         1,289          2,345             480           806         399        49   10,619
1971           1,886           1,309           989          1,870             376           432         321        20    7,203
1972           1,190             603           687          1,134             317           561         220        25    4,737
1973           2 120             967         1,422          1,542             414           390         282        19    7,156
1974 4/        2:763             986         1,541          2,490             523           718         415       149    9,585
Government Vehicles Only:
1962               37            211             19            66              11            15          34         3       396
1963               83            219             14            63               5            15           8         2       409
1964               75            250             22           100              12            58          45        12       574
1965             216             251             33           151              33            38          34        -        756
1966             258             399             30           273              29            93          -         -     1,082
1967               74            451           101            227              42           219           2         3    1,119
1968             179             303             69           288              31            93        110         11    1,084
1969             149             251           141            202              21            71          35         4       874
1970             418             416            204           514              51           147          84        27    1,861
1971             222             397           176            219              53            78          30         3    1,178
1972             301              99             36           106              20            21         14          1      598
1973             859             380           186            681              71           111          81         8    2,377
1974           1,080             195           480            853              36           179          74        25    2,922
1/ Pick-ups, Vans, Landrovers, Boxbodies, etc.
2/ Until 1967, Tankers were included with tractors. From 1968 onwards
Tankers have been grouped together with Lorries and tractors.
3/ Ambulances, Bulldozers, Caravans, Cranes, Fire-engines, Graders, etc.
4/ Provisional figures.
Source: Central Registry of Motor Vehicles
September 1977



TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Road Vehicle Fleet, 1962-75
li62     1963      196)     1965      1966     1267       98J 16            17         91      17        1973       1974       1975
Privatelvy-owned Vehicles
Passenger cars                         19,048   21,419   22,854   22,985   25,877   28,748   26,809   29,783   33,078   33,261   34,141
Light commercial vehicles               7,755    8,046    8,454    8,557    9,884   11,213   10,648   12,205   14,171   14,280   14,784
Trucks                                  6,386    6,779    7,301    7,215    9,004   10,461   10,137   11,578   13,570   13,821   14,849
Buses                                   1,526    1,687    1,887    2,041    2,354    2,613    2,473    2,969    3,486    3,521    3,816
Motorcycles                             4,495    4,783    5,221    5,415    6,449    7,293    6,970    7,989    9,306    9,396   10,072
Other 2                                 2.316    3.101    3.803    3,971    4,557    5,792    43.44    5,939    7.096    7.151    7.921
Subtotal                           41,526   45,815   49,520   50,184   58,125   66,120   61,471   70,463   80,707   81,430   85,583
Government-owned Vehiclesl/             3,623    3,859    4,391    4,238    5,320    6,534    4,003    4,872    7,008    7,855    8,454
(o , w~ich , trucks)          (1,290)  (1,255)  (1,337)  (1.381)  (1,654)  (1,881)    (987)  (1,196)  (1,534)  (1,834)  (1,940)   (2,197) _42487)   (2,817)
Total Vehicle Fleet               45,149   49,674   53,911   54,1422   63,445   72,654   65,474   75,335   87,715   89,285   94,037    97,411  100,961   104,968
I/ Seeming discrepancies for which no explanation could be obtained.
g/  Ambulances, bulldozers, cranes, fire engines, graders, tractors, trailers, etc.
i/  All types of vehicles.
Source:    Central Registry of Motor Vehicles.
September 1977
wd



TABLE 4
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEIMENT PROJECT
Vehicle and Spare Parts Imports, 1972-74
Units                TShs thousand
L972    1973    1974    1972    1973    1974
Road Motor Vehicles
Cars
< 1200cc                                             442                      5,881
1200-1500cc                                          126                      2,031
1500-1750cc                                          338                      5,742
1750-2000cc                                   n.a.   298              n.a.   8,130
2000-2250cc                                           15                        283
< 2250cc                                               19               _       263
Sub-total    554      1,190 1,233      6,964 20,070  22,430
Buses
Mini buses:  1200cc (14 seats)                        1                          3
1200-1500cc                                          16                        274
1500-1750cc                                         157                      4,233
1750-2000cc                                 n.a.      4              n.a.      110
>2000cc
With 14 or more seats:                ____            91            __5,266
Sub-total      59      141    269      1,448 3,751    9,866
Lorries
Load capacity< 3 tons                               450                      8,753
> 3 tons                              762                    52,752
n.a.  1212             n.a.   61,505
Four wheel drive vehicles                            973                _    29,170
Sub-total    732    1,227  2,185    26,067 28,631  90,675
Trailers                             96         4    128      2,221           . 9,714
Engines for Motor Vehicles           56        95     78        170  1,318      576
Parts of Engines for Motor
Vehicles                               3,839  3,810  11,576
Road Motor Vehicle Parts                                            50,017   1.385
Road Motor Vehicle Parts                                     45,937          17,377
Total parts
49,976 55,145  30,914
Source: Import Statistics, 1976.
September 1977



Table 5
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Age Composition of Truck Fleet, Private and Parastatal, 1962-75
Year of First                  New                  Surviving           Percentage of
Registration               Registrations          Vehicles-1975          1975 Fleet
1962 or earlier                 889                      142                 1%
1963                            816                      228                 2%
1964                          1,112                      434                 3.3
1965                            860                      430                 3.3
1966                          1,813                    1,052                 8.0
1967                          1,453                      959                 7.3
1968                          1,232                      936                 7.1
1.969                         1,288                    1,030                 7.8-
1970                          1,831                    1,575                12.0
1971                          1,651                    1,486                11.3
1972                          1,028                      946                 7.2
1973                          1,844                    1,770                13.4
1974                          1,624                    1,592                12 1
1975                            595                      595                 4.j
13,175              100.0%
Sources:   Vehicle Fleet Survey, 1971
Central Motor Vehicle Registry
Bank Mission Estimates, 1976.
September 1977



Table 6
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REdABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Reeional Distibution of Truck Fleet, 1975
Estimated             Percentage
Trucks, 19751'            of Total
Arusha                                          1,040                     8.0
Coast/Dar es Salaam                             4,745                    36.5
Dodoma                                            286                      2.2
Iringa                                            286                     2.2
Kigoma                                            104                      0.8
Kilimanjaro                                     1,040                      8.0
Mara                                              143                      1.1
Mbeya/Rukwa                                       286                      2.2
Morogoro                                          546                      4.2
Mwanza                                          1,326                     10.2
Mtwara/Lindi                                      182                      1.4
Ruvuma                                            169                     1.3
Shinyawga                                         247                      1.9
Singida                                           117                     0.9
Tabora                                            702                      5.4
Tanga                                           1,365                    10.5
West Lake                                         416                      3.2
Total                                          13,000                   100.0
1/ Assuming the same distribution pattern as 1967 and
excluding Government and defense forces vehicles.
Source:   Trimac's "Tanzania Trucking Industry Study" 1976,
Mission Estimates
September 1977



TABLE 7
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Axle-load Regulations-
(Kgs)
All Roads
Maximum gross tire load                                    2,500
Maximum gross axle load                                    8,000
Maximum gross tandem axle load
-both two-wheel                                          8,000
-one two-wheel and one four-wheel                       11,400
-both four-wheel                                        14,500
Maximum gross load on adjacent axles
-both two-wheel                                         10,000
-one two-wheel and one four-wheel                       13,000
-both four-wheel                                        16,000
Maximum gross load on three axles
-all two-wheel                                          12,000
-front and rear two-wheel; middle four-wheel            17,900
-front and middle four-wheel and rear two-wheel         21,000
Maximum gross vehicle weight (including trailer)          35,000
1/ More restrictive axle load limits apply to Horohoro-Tanga-Segera-Chalinze and
Namanga-Arusha-Moshi-Korogwe-Segera roads because of limited pavement bearing
capacity.
Source: The Road Traffic Regulations (Maximum Weight of Vehicles), 1975.
September 1977



Table 8
TANZANLA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                               Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                                     at end of Quarter
US$ '000
1977/78
March 31, 1978                                                          45
June 30, 1978                                                          275
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                                     460
December 31, 1978                                                      800
March 31, 1979                                                       1,500
June 30, 1979                                                        4,000
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                                   4,800
December 31, 1979                                                    6,000
March 31, 1980                                                       7,200
June 30, 1980                                                        8,300
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                                   9,200
December 31, 1980                                                   10,500
March 31, 1981                                                      11,250
June 30, 1981                                                       12,250
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                                  12,500
December 31, 1981                                                   13,200
March 31, 1982                                                      13,800
June 30, 1982                                                       14,000
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                                  14,600
December 31, 1982                                                   15,000
SeDtember 1977



TABLE 9
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Performance Targets for the Five Transport Companies
Public Companies       Targets for Selected Companies   Efficient
in Tanzania          After              After           Tanzania Trucking
(average)           2 years            4 years         Parastatal
Vehicle-kilometers per truck
per year                             35,000            40,000            50,000             60,000
Ton-kilometers per truck
per year                            100,000           125,000           250,000            450,000
1/
Truck availability                    0.6                0.7               0.8                0.9
2/
Truck utilization                     0.5                0.6               0.7                0.8
Staff/vehicle ratio                   4+                  3                2+                  2
Operation cost per ton-
kilometer of actual
traffic (excluding
depreciation)                     T Sh 1.2            T Sh 1.0         T Sh 0.8            T Sh 0.6
Operating Ratio
(Operating Costs)                  Over 1            Below 1             0.9                 0.85
(Operating Revenue)
1/ Truck availability = Number of operational trucks
Total trucks
2/ Truck utilization = Used capacity of available trucks in ton-km
Total capacity of available trucks in ton-km
Source: Transport companies and Appraisal Mission, October 1976.
September 3Q77



TABLE 10
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Truck Fleet of the Five Transport Companies, 1977-82
Trucks
Present Trucks      Rehabilitated   Purchased new    Total
Not  Rehabilitated        Trucks        Under Project    Fleet
1978                     160              52                  0            212
1979                      60             104                50             214
1980                      0              104               160             264
1981                      0               52               160             212
1982                      0                0               160             160
Note:    The Table shows a decrease in the fleet size after 1980 because
only fleet imports financed under the project are considered for
this period. In practice, it is expected that sufficient additional
trucks would be purchased after 1980 to permit a modest growth in
traffic.
Source: Transport companies and appraisal mission, October, 1976.
September 1977



TABLE 11
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Operating Statement for the Five Transport Companies
Projected for 1980
Amount
( T Sh '000)
Operating Revenue                                             52,178
Operating Expenses
Running Costs
Vehicle Repairs                                          6,105
Fuel and Oil                                             8,922
Tires and Tubes                                          9,392
Miscellaneous                                            2,818
Fixed Costs
Salaries and Wages                                       4,226
Depreciation                                             9,392
Licenses and Insurance                                   1,409
Other Administrative Expenses                            2,348
Interest                                                    2,348
Total                         46,960
Net Surplus                                                    5,218
Note: Based on 264 trucks handling 58.7 million ton-kilometers of traffic
at average cost of T Sh 0.8 per ton-kilometer.
Source: Feasibility studies for regional transport companies and appraisal
mission, October 1976.
September 1977



TABLE 12
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Truck Fleet Capability of the Five Transport Companies
After Strengthening, 1977-32
(ton-km millions)
Present                        Trucks
Trucks Not    Rehabilitated   Purchased New      Total Fleet
Rehabilitated       Trucks       Under Project      Capability
1978           22.4            7.3               0               29.7
1979            9.6           16.6              10.0              36.2
1980             0            18.7              40.0             58.7
1981             0             9.4              40.0              49.4
1982             0              0               40.0              40.0
Note:    The Table shows a decrease in the capability after 1980 because
only fleet inputs financed under the project are considered for
this period. In practice, it is expected that sufficient
additional capability would be purchased after 1980 to permit a
modest growth in traffic.
Source: Transport companies and appraisal mission, October 1976.
September 1977



TABLE 13
TANZANIA
Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement Project
Costs and Benefits Based on Assistance to the Five Transport Companies
(TSh Millions)
Cost of          Cost of
Cost of                Producing        Producing        Saving in
Procurements           TKM with         TKM withou       Transport          Net
Under Project I'       Project           Project 3         Cost           Benefits
1978          1.1                29.7              35.6              5.9             4.8
1979        47.1                 32.6              43.4            10.8           -36.3
1980         36.5                47.0              70.4            23.4           -13.1
1981          9.0                48.0              72.0            24.0             15.0
1982          1.7                48.0              72.0            24.0             22.3
1983            0                48.0              72.0            24.0             24.0
1984            0                48.0              72.0            24.0             24.0
1985            0                48.0              72.0            24.0             24.0
1986            0                48.0              72.0            24.0             24.0
1987            0                48.0              72.0            24.0             24.0
1988            0                48.0              72.0            24.0             24.0
1989            0                48.0              72.0            24.0             24.0
1990            0                48.0              72.0            24.0             24.0
1991            0                48.0              72.0            24.0             24.0
1992            0                48.0              72.0            24.0             24.0
Economic return                                                           37%
1/ Cost of foreign element in procurements is shadow-priced at 1.33 of the official
rate of exchange.
2/ Based on (a) total capability of fleet shown in Table 12 and additional trucks
obtained with supplemental financing; and (b) unit operating cost (excluding
depreciation) ranging from TSh 0.8 to 1.0 per ton-kilometer of actual traffic.
3/ Based on (a) total capability of fleet shown in Table 12 and additional trucks
obtained with supplemental financing; and (b) unit operating costs (excluding
depreciation) of TSh 1.2 per ton-kilometer of actual traffic.
Source: Transport companies and appraisal mission, October 1976.
September 1977



Table 14
Page 1
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Costs and Benefits of Truck Spare Parts Imports
Costs:
Spare parts procurement: T Sh 62.3 million (T Sh 37.4 million foreign
exchange cost shadow priced at 1.33 of the official rate of exchange and
T Sh 12.6 million local cost)
Labor cost of installing spare parts: T Sh 12.5 million (based on current
rates of labor in Tanzania)
Benefits:
Benefits from the procurement of spare parts are difficult to estimate. Two
approaches to the assessment of benefits are:
1. Avoided losses caused by insufficient transport
It is known that there are at present widespread delays in movement of
goods which result in some spoilage, reduced incomes and other losses. These
losses are attributable in part, though the amount has not been measured, to
a shortage of transport capacity. The trucking capacity that would be made
available as a consequence of the proposed import of spare parts would reduce
the losses but the amount of the reduction cannot be readily estimated.
2. Avoided capital cost of new trucks
In lieu of bearing the losses suggested above as resulting from insuffi-
cient transport capacity, one may assume that additional trucks would be
imported to make up the capacity deficiency. The capital cost of such trucks
would be avoided if the proposed spare parts were procured thus permitting
better utilization of the existing truck fleet.
(a) Basic factors for estimating avoided capital cost:
(1) T Sh 0.40 per truck kilometer spare parts consumption rate;
(2) average 50,000 kilometers per truck; (3) average T Sh 125,000
economic cost of truck
(b) Method:
(1) T Sh 50 million procurement of spare parts . T Sh 0.40 consump-
tion rate = 125 million truck kilometers per year   50,000 kilometers
per year = 2,500 trucks; (3) 2,500 trucks x T Sh 125,000 unit cost
per truck = T Sh 312 million x 1.33 of the official rate of exchange
= T Sh 415 million avoided capital cost shadow priced
(c) Conclusion:
The T Sh 415 million potential avoided capital cost is far greater
than the T Sh 75 million economic cost of this project component.
While the benefit from the spare parts imports would undoubtedly
be large there is considerable uncertainty as to how much of the



Table 14
Page 2
added vehicle capability resulting from such imports would be
economically utilized. However, at least a third of the
capability would be employed and on this basis the economic
return is 38%.
Source: Transport companies and appraisal mission, October 1976.
September 1977



ANNEX 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Transport Modes Other Than Roads
Railways
1.        Two railway systems serve Tanzania, the East African Railway Cor-
poration (EARC) and the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA) (para. 2).
The EARC, a joint venture of the East African Community (EAC; consisting of
Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda), serves northern Tanzania with about 2,600 km of
1.00 m gauge track, linking Dar es Salaam and Tanga with Tabora, MJwanza,
Kigoma and Arusha. The railway moves a wide variety of Tanzanian goods
including cotton and other agricultural exports, as well as diverse import
products. In addition, the Kigoma-Dar es Salaam line handles large amounts of
transit traffic for its landlocked neighbors, particularly Burundi. EARC
operations within Tanzania have recently been unsatisfactory, largely due to
difficulties arising from the three Government's disagreements on corporation
policies; steps are being taken toward decentralization of the EARC. Follow-
ing decentralization, the Tanzania section will require substantial invest-
ments in track rehabilitation, workshops, locomotives and wagons; training and
technical assistance will also be needed.
2.        TAZARA, financed by the Peoples Republic of China and owned jointly
by Tanzania and Zambia, was completed in 1975 and consists of 1.067 m gauge
track extending 970 km from Dar es Salaam to the Zambia border and continuing
another 890 km into Zambia. The principal traffic at present is, and for some
years will continue to be, Zambia's exports of copper and imports. Future
growth of Tanzania traffic on the line will depend on general development of
its southern regions.
Ports and Shipping
3.        Though the principal Tanzania ocean ports of Dar es Salaam, Tanga
and Mtwara are organized under the East African Harbours Corporation (an
entity owned by the EAC), they operate more or less independently, following
the move toward decentralization of EAC organizations. Tanga has no deep
water berths and requires use of lighterage facilities; Mtwara has two deep-
water berths. The major port facilities in Dar es Salaam include eleven
alongside general cargo berths for oceangoing ships, 600 meters of lighterage
quay, one buoy berth for crude oil tankers and one pier for petroleum products
tankers. Dar es Salaam handles nearly four million tons of traffic annually,
or about 85% of the total for the three ports. Nearly half of the tonnage
through the key port represents Zambian traffic. Operating efficiency in the
Dar es Salaam port was unsatisfactory prior to 1972 but has improved signifi-
cantly since that time. Recent planning studies of the Tanzanian ports have



ANNEX 1
Page 2
concluded that fairly sizeable improvements and expansion are needed in Dar
es Salaam, some minor improvements in Tanga; virtually no developments will be
required at Mtwara for many years.
4.        The Tanzanian Coastal Shipping Lines (TCSL), established in 1971,
is a National Transport Corporation subsidiary with headquarters in Dar es
Salaam and branches in Mtwara and Lindi. The line has a monopoly on carrying
domestic freight and passengers between various coastal and island ports south
of Dar es Salaam. The fleet consists of two vessels, each capable of trans-
porting 150 passengers and about 500 tons of cargo. A third vessel has been
ordered which will be used to transport cattle from Tanzania to foreign
markets in the Middle East. Traffic between Dar es Salaam and Mtwara/Lindi is
highly seasonal with heavy traffic in the rainy season when alternative road
transport is unreliable, circuitous and costly. Until an improved coastal
road including a costly bridge across the Rufiji River can be built (which
appears unlikely for many years), the TCSL will play an important transport
role in southeast Tanzania.
5.        Some transport services are also provided on Lake Victoria and
Lake Tanganyika. The EARC has historically provided ancillary ferry services
at Lake Victoria, both internationally and within Tanzania. In 1976, as a
result of controversies between member countries of the EAC, all EARC ferry
boats previously operating on the lake were held in Kenya, which adversely
affected lake services between the Tanzanian ports of Mwanza, Bukoba and
Musoma. The few other vessels serving the lake have insufficient capacity to
handle the normal waterborne traffic; this problem has been alleviated to some
extent by use of road transport, but this involves delays and relatively high
cost. On Lake Tanganyika, Burundi-owned ships transport considerable cargo
between Bujumbura and Kigoma, the western terminus of EARC.
Air Transport
6.        Of the over 50 officially-designated air fields in Tanzania, only
a few are built to high enough standards to permit operation of international
jet aircraft; many are dirt and grass strips used only occasionally. The
airports of highest standard are at Dar es Salaam and Kilimanjaro; Mtwara,
Dodoma, Mwanza and Zanzibar also have paved runways. The East African Airways
Corporation (EAA), ceased operations in February 1977 due to financial dif-
ficulties. Owned by the EAC, it provided regular services to 18 airports
within Tanzania, using primarily F-27 turboprop aircraft; its international
services linked the country with several countries including Kenya, Mozambique,
Malawi and Zaire. Air passenger traffic to and from Dar es Salaam and other
Tanzania airports had grown rapidly in recent years. Domestic air service is
particularly important in Tanzania, as its road network is of low standard and
rail lines do not reach a number of important towns. Since the cessation of
services by EAA, internal services have been considerably curtailed with only
the major centers of Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, Kilimanjaro and Mtwara served on a
much reduced timetable using aircraft chartered by Tanzania from Mozambique.
A national airline, Air Tanzania, was formed subsequent of the closure of EAA.
It is expected to replace these charters, serving all the major domestic
centers formerly served by EAA.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Pipeline
7.        A pipeline of 20.3 cm diameter was constructed in 1968 from Dar es
Salaam to Ndola in Zambia. Initially, it served as a products line, carrying
principally gasoline to Zambia. Following construction of a refinery at
Ndola, the line has transported crude oil rather than products from Dar es
Salaam. The capacity of the line is 712,000 tons p.a. and traffic flow has
generally been at about that level. The role of the pipeline is that of a
transit facility for Zambian traffic.
September 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Previous Bank Group-Financed Transport Projects
A. Railway and Port Projects
1.        Bank Group loans amounting to US$166 million have been made to the
two East African Community (EAC) organizations, the East African Railway
Corporation (EARC) and the East African Harbours Corporation (EAHC). The
railway loans (110-EA in 1955; 428-EA in 1966; 674-EA in 1974) helped modernize
and expand the railway system of the EAC countries (Tanzania, Kenya and
Uganda). Under the harbor loans (638-EA in 1969; 865-EA in 1972) Dar es
Salaam, among other ports, was expanded and improved.
B. Roads Projects
2.        A number of road projects have been financed by the Bank Group.  The
first of four Bank-Group road projects in Tanzania was financed by a US$14
million IDA credit in 1964 (48-TA), supplemented by a US$3 million credit in
1968 (115-TA), and consisted of construction of six road sections (860 km) and
detailed engineering of part of the TANZAM Highway (230 km) and secondary
roads (335 km) in the cotton growing district of Geita. This project was
satisfactorily completed in 1970.
3.        The second project, financed by a US$15.5 million IDA credit and a
US$7.0 million Bank loan in 1969 (Credit 142-TA and Loan 586-TA), consisted
of the reconstruction of a 510 km section of the TANZAM Highway and was satis-
factorily completed in 1972. A Swedish credit of US$7.5 million assisted with
the financing of this major road project in the south.
4.        The third project, financed by a US$6.5 million IDA credit (265-TA)
in 1971, consists of improving to paved standard of a road extending west-
ward from the port of Mtwara and the betterment of 475 km of agricultural
feeder roads. Progress on this project has been slow and, because of cost
overruns, the funds made available under the credit have been sufficient to
finance only the Mltwara-Mingoya section (82 km) and the agricultural feeder
roads. The Government has received assistance from the African Development
Bank (AfDB) for the Mingoya-Masasi road (118 km) originally included in the
Third Project.
5.        The fourth project, financed by a US$10.2 million IDA credit
(507-TA) in 1974, comprises the first stage of the Government's program to
improve the maintenance of primary roads throughout the country. The project



ANNEX 2
Page 2
includes (a) maintenance and, where necessary, rehabilitation of about
3,300 km of primary roads; (b) construction/improvement of road maintenance
camps, workshops and offices; (c) procurement of road maintenance and work-
shop equipment, vehicles, spare parts, tools and materials; (d) training of
maintenance personnel; (e) technical assistance to the MOW; and (f) a study
of the country's road transport industry. Implementation of this project has
been slow, although recently the pace has improved. The transport industry
study was completed in 1976, the results of which confirmed the need for the
proposed project.
September 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND INPROVEMENT PROJECT
Public and Private Truck Transport Operations
National Transport Corporation
1.        The National Transport Corporation was established under the Public
Corporation Act of 1969 with a broad charter to conduct or engage in the
businesses of carrying, for hire, persons and/or goods by land, sea, inland
waterway or air transport and to engage in other related activities. Although
NTC does not itself directly engage in transport operations it exercises sub-
stantial influence over the policies and activities of its subsidiary operat-
ing organizations. At present, the NTC owns and operates three companies:
The National Bus Service, Dar es Salaam Motor Transport Company and Tanzania
Coastal Shipping Line; the National Road Haulage Company (paras. 2-6) was
also controlled by NTC until it was dissolved in April 1977. The NTC recog-
nizes the difficulties of managing, from a single base, transport operations
that are scattered in many parts of the country. Accordingly, the NTC is
exploring ways of aiding in the development of truck transport through the
provision of assistance for the formation and expansion of regional transport
companies.
National Road Haulage Company (NRHC)
2.        Prior to 1971, private truckers had been providing transport services
satisfactorily, but with the Government's decision to expand public sector
participation in the industry, many private operators left the industry, and
those who stayed began concentrating on the more lucrative long distance
hauls. In an effort to overcome the resulting shortage of services, the
parastatal NRHC was created and commenced operations in July 1972 with 10
trucks and 10 trailers, charged mainly with providing economical and reliable
road freight transport on the trunk road network between regional centers. In
July 1973, NRHC expanded and reorganized to include the Long Distance Division
and a Hire Pool Division, for shorter hauls. As a result of financial difficul-
ties the company was dissolved in April 1977.
Long Distance Division
3.        This Division was formed to compete with the private sector in the
lucrative inter-regional and international long distance transport industry
and was provided with 97 lorries (mainly Scania purchased with a Swedish
grant) and 53 trailers. Later it subcontracted trucks to Zambia-Tanzania Road
Services (ZTRS) to haul Zambia's copper exports and general cargo imports. A
few vehicles operated between Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Arusha but, due to poor
operations and management as well as low vehicle availability and use, this
service made only a minimal contribution to Tanzania's total transport
demand.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Hire Pool Division (HPD)
4.        HPD was formed to provide short distance regional transport of cash
crops when private transporters began concentrating on long distance haulage.
HPD was to provide a mobile pool of vehicles to supplement parastatals and
cooperatives' local fleets during peak crop periods, but instead estab-
lished branches with permanent fleets in some regions. The only regions
where its fleets increased and decreased appreciably with crop seasons were
Mwanza and Mtwara, between which about twenty trucks alternated for the cotton
and cashewnut seasons, respectively.
5.        In 1976, HPD had 216 trucks, purchased with bilateral loans, of
which 100 were 8 to 9 ton Mercedes Benz and 116 were 7 ton Isuzus. These
trucks operated on low standard feeder roads, which increased breakdowns and
vehicle maintenance problems. This, coupled with poor management, insufficient
spare parts, lack of trained staff and vehicle repair facilities, generally
poor drivers and inefficient operating procedures resulted in low vehicle
availability and utilization. At any one time, only about 60% of its vehicles
were in operating condition and on average only about 40% of the hauling
capacity of operating vehicles was used. As a result of these inefficiencies
and because it established permanently based fleets, NRHC did not provide a
much-needed mobile fleet of trucks to assist with peak crop seasons, and
instead competed for the year round transport business, to its own detriment
as well as that of the regionally based fleets.
NRHC Financial Position and Dissolution
6.        NRHC had serious financial problems throughout its five year exis-
tence. Its rapid expansion to provide hire pool services in 1973 were financed
by hard loans and overdrafts. However, the company, staffed by inexperienced
and untrained people, operated on the poorest roads where operating costs were
highest and was forced to accept freight rates which did not cover costs. Its
high amortization and interest charges for loans and overdrafts could not be
made from revenues that were insufficient to cover even operating costs; thus,
the Company's debt increased and its capital assets eroded. The financially-
pressed company had no vehicle replacement funds, or even sufficient working
capital for spare parts and vehicle repairs. Consequently, a large propor-
tion of its trucks were in extremely poor condition and lay idle. The
resultant reduced freight revenues compounded the financial problems which
finally caused the company to be dissolved.
Regional Transport Companies
7.        Several regions have been served by companies providing both freight
and passenger services. In the southeast, TEETEEKO is owned and operated by
the District Development Corporations of Lindi, Mtwara and Ruvuma Regions;
CORETCO, a transport cooperative, operates in the Coast and Dar es Salaam
regions. Each operates trucks as well as passenger buses and faces problems
similar to NRHC's; they operate on poor roads and lack skilled managers and
other operational staff, working capital and vehicle maintenance servicing,
repair parts and facilities.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        With the 1976 dissolution of Regional Cooperative Unions, which
had transport wings, a number of regions have formed new transport companies
using vehicles, facilities and staff taken over from the Cooperative Unions.
Companies have been formed in Dodoma and Tanga Regions and others are being
planned or considered for Tabora and Mwanza. Other regions are also looking
into this approach. At present, there are diverse ownership arrangements
among these companies; for example, the Dodoma Company is owned by the
District Development Corporations, while in Tabora, the various crop and
marketing parastatals will be the shareholders. However, FMO favors regional
companies and is considering issuing an edict for their formation in every
region. Such an edict would probably include guidelines for their formation
and ownership.
9.        The companies that have been formed or are being planned are
small, similar to the transport wings of the disbanded Cooperative Unions.
They will also provide passenger and freight transport services; the Dodoma
and proposed Tabora companies will also own and operate petrol stations.
10.       There is little information about the performance of these recently-
formed companies but, because they are regionally based and controlled, they
should be more responsive to regional needs. Provided they are efficiently
managed and operated, and gain the confidence of their clients, they could
develop into valuable and versatile institutions with the prospect of not only
providing transport but also of becoming the main coordinating and clearing
centers for all regional transport.
Transport Wings of Crop Authorities
11.       Most crop authorities have some trucks of their own and hire others
as required to transport agricultural produce and the farm inputs they supply.
As crop seasons normally last three to six months, these fleets of trucks are
rarely used intensively for more than six months each year. In the off-peak
season, although they could be used for hire or in other areas they seldom are
because of the difficulty in getting spare parts at times and lack of suffi-
cient vehicle repair facilities and personnel. Further, because they also
have difficulty hiring additional trucks in peak season, the larger authori-
ties are attempting to expand their fleets. Should these trends continue,
truck utilization will decrease and transport costs rise.
Other Non-private Transport
12.       Some industrial parastatals have their own transport fleets, such as
Tanzania Breweries Ltd and Agip Ltd. The Board of Internal Trade also formed
a separate transport company, the Biashara Transport Company to transport
merchandise from ports and factories to the sales outlets, normally the
Regional Trading Companies. Two other transport organizations operate trucks
within Tanzania; the Zambia-Tanzania Road Services (ZTRS) which operates
exclusively between Zambia and Dar es Salaam; and Tanzania Road Services, an
extension of East African Railways.
13.       Tanzania Breweries Ltd. (90 trucks) and Agip Ltd. concentrate on
their own products. The Biashara Transport Company, an autonomous company



ANNEX 3
Page 4
formed in 1976 by combining the Board of Internal Trade's transport wing
with the truck fleet of the National Textile Company, operates 33 trucks and
transports merchandise for member companies; it also competes for backhauls
in profitable areas with good roads. ZTRS, owned by Zambia (35%), Tanzania
(35%), and an Italian vehicle manufacturer (30%), was formed in 1966 to
transport Zambia's copper exports to Dar es Salaam and backhauls Zambia's
general cargo imports from the port. It operates 320 of its own trucks and
hired NRHC trucks and private trucks. The opening of the TAZARA Railway has
thrown some doubt on the future of ZTRS trucks' services for the Dar es Salaam-
Zambia traffic. However, it is likely that these trucks will be retained to
serve Zambia's needs on other routes. Tanzania Road Services (TRS) operates
72 trucks and 63 buses providing road freight and passenger services in areas
where the EAR does not have rail services, mainly in the southern highlands.
ZTRS, TRS and Biashara Transport Company are operating efficiently and
economically, reflecting the skills and ability of their management and
operations staff.
Private Operators
14.       Until 1973 road freight transport was provided almost exclusively
by private truck owners and companies. Since then, the Government has adopted
a policy of discouraging private operators and increasing the role of publicly-
owned transport. Many private truckers left the industry, mapiy leaving the
country altogether, including a lot of foreign owned trucks. However, despite
this exodus, the private segment of the industry is still dominant, owning over
two-thirds of the trucks and providing more than 60% of all road freight trans-
port service. More than 90% of private truck owners own less than four vehi-
cles and account for about 68% of the fleet, with 58% of trucks being single
vehicle owner-operations. In contrast, less than 1% of private trucking
organizations own more than 10 trucks but they account for about 20% of the
truck fleet.
15.       The small fleet and single-vehicle operators have the smaller trucks
(average 5.5 tons) and concentrate on intraregional and local services,
whereas the larger companies own larger vehicles (average 8.7 tons) and tend
to concentrate on the more lucrative long distance inter-regional transport.
All private operators, with the objective of maximizing their income, favor
long hauls over short hauls, avoid areas with the poorest roads and refuse
to serve areas where ferry queues or impassable roads cause long delays. In
this way, by concentrating on the more profitable part of the transport de-
mand and by operating efficiently, the private segment continues to prosper
and, in many cases, is continuing to invest in more and bigger trucks and
to grow. The demand by private transporters for new trucks far exceeds the
supply which is strictly regulated by the Government, both in total numbers
imported and in allocation between prospective buyers. In addition their
efficiency is reduced because frequently the Government imports and allocates
trucks of different makes and sizes to those applied for, so the operators
are forced to accept inappropriate vehicles for their jobs or for the areas
in which they operate and also they have to retrain mechanics and increase
investments in spare parts stocks.
September 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Transport Problems of the Selected PRgions
1.        Certain regions of Tanzania - Mwanza, Tabora, Mtwara, Dodoma and
Ruvuma - have particularly difficult transport problems and the project
therefore concentrates considerable resources on strengthening the trucking
industry in these areas. Characteristics of the regions and a review of their
transport systems and problems are discussed below.
Mwanza Region
2.        General Characteristics:  Mwanza region, located in the northwester
part of Tanzania and bordering on Lake Victoria, has a land area of 19,700 km
its elevation is about 1,000 to 1,500 m and the terrain is rolling in character.
Rainfall occurs predominantly in the period from February to May and the annual
precipitation ranges from 700 to 1,000 mm. Population of Ehe region is about
1.3 million and the density a comparatively high 66 per km . Agriculture is
the predominant economic activity with cassava and maize the main food crops
and cotton the principal cash crop. Some industry, including a cotton textile
mill, has developed in Mwanza Town, the largest urban center in the region.
3.        Transport System:  The transport infrastructure includes two all-
weather, gravel roads which are part of the national trunk system; one of
these is an east-west route linking Mtwanza Town with points in the two adjacent
regions of West Lake and Mara and the other a north-south route linking Mwanza
with neighboring Shinyanga region. Access roads within Mwanza Region were
developed largely around the need to move the cotton crop from village stores
to the ginneries and this road system is not adequate, many sections being in
need of maintenance and impassable during heavy rains.
4.        The northern spur of the main trans-Tanzania railway reaches north-
ward from the Tabora junction to Mwanza Town. The railway is particularly
important to Mwanza region for long-distance movement of freight, especially
cotton shipments to Dar es Salaam. Unfortunately, the capabilities of the
rail line were somewhat impaired as a result of the decision to decentralize
the East African Railway Corporation (EARC).
5.        Mwanza region has an extensive shore along Lake Victoria and there-
fore economical water transport is available to the area for movement of both
goods and passengers within the region, between Mwanza and neighboring regions,
and internationally. Since 1975, when the EARC discontinued its principal
lake services, water transport capability has been sharply reduced. Remaining
vessels are subject to heavy use and cannot meet the demand for lake transport.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
6.        Mwanza Town has an all-weather paved airport which is currently
being upgraded to international standards. Until the recent troubles of
the EAA, there were regular scheduled flights to the main towns of central
and eastern Tanzania and to Nairobi. A daily small plane service operates
between Mwanza and Bukoba.
7.        Transport Problems:  Mwanza Region faces serious transport problems,
one of which is the lack of adequate roads. As a result of the poorly con-
structed and inadequately maintained roads, transport costs are high and ser-
vice is unreliable, particularly during the rainy season. Some progress has
been made recently in the construction of a limited amount of secondary roads
but the general situation remains rather poor.
8.        Another serious transport problem of the region is the weakness of
the trucking industry. Limitations are found in the insufficiently trained
personnel, poor workshop facilities and problems in securing spare parts
for vehicle repairs. The rapid deterioration of trucks caused by poor roads
aggravates greatly the problem of operating reliable and efficient trucking
services.
9.        The Tanzania Cotton Authority (TCA), with its heavy requirement for
transport during the cotton harvest season, has sought to build up its own
truck fleet because of the undependability of trucking companies. Although
these TCA trucks can be effectively utilized during the harvest season they
are not well utilized in other periods.
10.       The heavy demand for truck transport during the cotton harvest led
the Government to establish some years ago a truck fleet in the National Road
Haulage Company (NRHC) that could be moved into the cotton growing area of
Mwanza and Shiyanga regions during the harvest period. Weaknesses of the NRHC,
however, have limited the number of trucks that could be provided for this
purpose. Also, until recent years a considerable number of Uganda trucks
supplemented the local capacity for cotton movement but these additions are
no longer available.
11.       Discontinuance of EARC lake transport services as noted above, has
had the effect of placing an increased demand on road transport between various
points in the three regions of northwest Tanzania. This addition burden on
road transport makes the problem of serving the area with adequate transport
service even more difficult.
Tabora Region
12.       General Characteristics:  Tabora Region, located i2 the west-central
part of Tanzania, is the nation's largest region (122,000 km ). Its average



ANNEX 4
Page 3
elevation is about 1,100 m with some ridges along the eastern border rising
to 1,500 m. The average rainfall is about 800 mm and the rainy season begin-
ning in November, lasts about six Ionths. Population of the region is about
780,000 and the density 6.4 per km . Agriculture, the principal economic
activity, is smallholder farming with maize, sorghum and groundnuts the main
food crops and tobacco and cotton the leading cash crops. The region accounts
for 55% of the country's tobacco production.
13.       Transport System:  There are some 2,300 km of roads in the region,
mostly radiating from Tabora Town. The most important roads are the links
northeastward and westward from that center. The quality of the regions roads
is low; there are no paved roads and the routes vary from gravel roads to
poorly-drained earth roads and tracks. Road maintenance is minimal.
14.       The trans-Tanzania line of the EARC spans the region; in addition to
the northern extension there is a spur line in the southwest. The east-west
line is not only the principal surface means of communication in west central
Tanzania but also an important facility for handling transit traffic of
neighboring land locked countries. Unfortunately, the condition of the rail
line west of Tabora is poor.
15.       An all-weather airport is located near Tabora Town and until the
recent EAA problems there were regular scheduled flights to-the main towns of
central and eastern Tanzania. Service was also available between Tabora and
Kigoma on Lake Tanganyika.
16.       Transport Problems:  Despite the fact that the region is served by
road, rail and air transport there are serious transport problems here. As in
Mwanza, this region has a sparse and poor quality network of roads and its
trucking industry is weak in all respects. As a consequence transport costs
here too are high and service often unreliable. The large size of this region
means that the building and maintenance of a good road network would be a great
burden.
17.       Since tobacco is the region's plain cash crop its movement to markets
is of special significance. Transport of tobacco is a major problem, however,
because the production areas are widely scattered and the product is trucked
over long, and in some cases rather circuitous routes from farms to Tabora
Town and to various other stations on the railway.
18.       The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT), faced with the problem of
obtaining reliable truck transport, acquired and operates a fleet of trucks to
handle much of its own transport needs. As in the case of the TCA, the utili-
zation of the TAT trucks is poor in the off-season and loading is directionally
imbalanced. TAT proposes to reduce its fleet substantially when the Tabora
Regional Transport Company becomes operational and will rely on the latter for
most of its transport requirements.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Mtwara Region
19.       General Characteristics:  Mtwara region, located in the south-
eastern corner of Tanzania, borders on the Indian Oc2an and Mozambique;
it is one of the nation's smaller regions (16,740 km ). The topography is
flat to undulating for the most part, with a maximum elevation of 800 m. The
climate of the region differs little from the general pattern for Tanzania,
average rainfall being 900 to 1,000 mm. 2Population of the region is about
750,000 and the density about 45 per km . Agriculture is the predominant
economic activity, the main food crops being cassava, sorghum, millet, maize
and paddy; cashewnut is the leading cash crop with oilseeds also contributing
to cash income. Cashewnuts are exported mainly in unprocessed form although
some shelling and packing is done in Mtwara Town.
20.       Transport System:  The road network of the region consists of about
3,200 km of roads, which are relatively evenly distributed throughout the
area. The principal artery extends from Mtwara Town northwestward to Mingoya
in the Lindi Region, reenters Mtwara Region near Masasi and then continues
westward to the border of Ruvuma Region; this road is being paved under the
Third Highway Project. The condition of other roads is generally poor,
particularly in the rainy season. Only 190 km of the 3,200 km network is
maintained by the Ministry of Works and road conditions are highly dependent
on self-help maintenance.
21.       Mtwara Town has a good natural harbor and the port facilities
include a deep water quay and four godowns. Cashewnut exports account for 70%
of total exports through the port. The capacity of the port is underutilized
and should be able to accommodate traffic needs for several years. The
Tanzania Coastal Shipping Line operates freight and passenger services between
Mtwara and other coastal cities; during the rainy season the demand for these
services is very heavy. No railway serves the port of Mtwara nor is there any
railway elsewhere in the region.
22.       Mtwara has an all-weather airport with a paved runway capable of
handling commercial jet aircraft. There were scheduled air services between
the regional center and Dar es Salaam. The town is also served by interna-
tional flights between Tanzania and Mozambique.
23.       Transport Problems:  Mtwara region is experiencing serious transport
problems as a result of poor roads and weaknesses in virtually all aspects of
the trucking industry. The adverse effects of poor roads are especially great
in this region because the period of harvest and transport of cashewnuts - the
chief cash crop - coincides with the rainy reason. Because of the hazard of
vehicle breakdown during the rainy season, private truck operators are reluc-
tant to offer their services when the demand for transport is at its peak.
Consequently, the region is plagued with delays in transport, crop spoilage
and high transport costs.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
24.       Cashewnuts and other cash crops originate in widely dispersed
locations within the region and flow largely toward Mtwara Town in the extreme
eastern part of the area. Thus the transport of these important agricultural
products depends on the use of a rather large network of roads which, as
indicated above, are in generally poor condition.
25.       Mtwara region, which accounts for a high proportion of one of
Tanzania's leading exports, cashewnuts, is disadvantaged by a lack of good
road connections to Dar es Salaam. The coastal road is interrupted by the
Rufiji River across which a ferry boat operates with considerable irregular-
ity; during the rainy season the Rufiji delta is generally flooded and is
often impassable. An alternative road from Mtwara to Dar es Salaam is that
via Tunduru, Songea and Makumbaku where it connects with the TANZAM Highway
and TAZARA Railway; although this circuitous road is passable the year round,
transport on it is slow and costly. Because of difficulties with road trans-
port between Mtwara and Dar es Salaam during the rainy season, there is a heavy
seasonal demand for the coastal shipping service and the demand exceeds the
capacity of the service in that period.
26.       Augmentation of the truck fleet in Mtwara region during the cashew-
nut harvest season was one of the main objectives of the Hire Pool Division
of the NRHC. Unfortunately, serious limitations in its capabilities resulted
in the NRHC making only a small contribution to the truck fleet capacity in
this region during the critical harvest period.
Dodoma Region
27.       General Characteristics:  Located in the central part 2f Tanzania,
Dodoma is one of the nation s medium size regions with 41,300 km of land area.
The topography is quite varied including extensive level to rolling areas but
also some mountainous portions in the northwest and south where elevations are
1,500 to 2,000 m. Rainfall is relatively light averaging only 500 to 600 mm;
the seasonal pattern of rainfall is similar to that in other parts of the
country. Population of the region is nearly 900,000 and the density about 22
per km . As a result of its low rainfall, the region's agriculture is compara-
tively poor and cash crops, consisting mainly of grains, are small. In recent
years, people of this region have been recipients of large amounts of food
relief because of deficiencies in local food production.
28.       Transport System:  The region has a north-south trunk road and an
east-west trunk road both of which run through Dodoma Town, the region's
administrative and commercial center. These gravel roads are the principal
road transport arteries of the area and are important as interregional routes
in addition to serving local needs. Other roads are largely the earth type
although some have gravel surfacing. In general, as in much of Tanzania, the
condition of the road network is unsatisfactory due to insufficient maintenance
as well as lack of good construction.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
29.       The trans-Tanzanian line of the EARC cuts across the center of the
region and Dodoma Town is an important station on the route. Dodoma Town will
undoubtedly take on increasing importance as a rail center in the future as
the Government proceeds to implement its plan to develop the town as the
nation's capital.
30.       Dodoma has an all-weather, paved airport located a short distance
from the town center. Regular scheduled air services were provided by East
African Airways between this airport and various towns of Tanzania.
31.       Transport Problems:  Transport in Dodoma region is handicapped by
poor roads and a weak trucking industry, as in other regions of the country.
The low level of production and purchasing power in the area means that
trucking operators are not particularly attracted to the region. At the same
time, the availability of transport at reasonable cost is an important factor
affecting both regional productivity and the ability of Government authorities
to distribute to the people essential relief supplies.
32.       The lack of reliable transport services from trucking companies
has led the National Milling Corporation (NMC) and the Regional Trading
Company to build up their own fleets of trucks. While NMC trucks can be
effectively utilized inbound to Dodoma Town, they tend to be poorly utilized
outbound; RTC trucks have unbalanced loading in the opposite directions. In
addition, utilization of NMC trucks is subject to wide seasonal variations
related to the seasonal pattern of crop movements. Strengthening of the
trucking industry should result in better truck utilization, improved service
and lower transport costs.
Ruvuma Region
33.       General Characteristics:  Ruvuma region, located in the south rn
part of Tanzania, is the sixth largest of the 20 regions with 61,250 km
of land area. The terrain is rolling to mountainous and is dissected by
many streams. Elevations in the western portion generally exceed 1,000
meters and decline toward the east. Rainfall is adequate in about two-
thirds of the region, reaching about 1,200 mm annually in most areas. Popula-
ti2n of the region is approximately 500,000, and the density only about 8 per
km . Agricultural production is relatively light but there is substantial
cultivable land. The principal food crops are cassava and maize; cash crops
include small quantities of cashewnuts and coffee.
34.       Transport System:  The region is heavily dependent on road trans-
port since there are no railways and the rivers are not navigable. The
principal road extends from the eastern regional border westward through
the two main towns of Tunduru and Songea and then northward to the adjoining
Iringa region where it links with the TANZAM Highway. Another significant
road links Songea with Mbamba Bay on Lake Nyasa. Virtually all of the 1,450
km of roads are classified as earth roads and, because of the rough terrain
in many areas, are often impassable in rainy weather and always difficult.
The roads are poorly maintained.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
35.       Mbamba Bay has a small port and serves as a focal point for lake
transport.
36.       Songea, the principal commercial and administrative center of
the region, has an airport of limited capacity. Regular scheduled air services
were provided by East African Airways between this airport and various towns
of Tanzania.
37.       Transport Problems:  Extremely poor roads and a weak trucking
industry are severe problems for this region. As in Dodoma region, trucking
operators are not attracted to this area of limited production, low incomes
and poor roads. The region has, however, considerable potential for agricul-
tural expansion, and the improvement of roads and truck transport along with
other programs in rural development should make possible significant realiza-
tion of this potential.
September 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance - Terms of Reference
I.   Objectives
II.   Scope of Technical Services
III.   Qualifications and Job Descriptions
A.   For Ministry of Communications and Transport
1.   Project Coordinator
2.   Assistant to Coordinator
B.   For Trucking Companies
1.   Trainer/Advisor for General Manager
2.   Trainer/Advisor for Chief Accountant
3.   Trainer/Advisor for Service Manager
4.   Trainer/Advisor for Senior Mechanic
C.   For National Institute of Transport
1.   Instructor for Trucking Managers
2.   Instructor for Accountants
3.   Instructor for Mechanics and Drivers
4.   Instructor for Supplies Management
D.   For Spare Parts & Vehicle Imports
1.   Vehicle Imports Advisors



ANNEX 5
Page 2
I. Objectives
1.        The purpose of the technical assistance is to strengthen, through
training and advisory services, the management and operations of selected
trucking companies, enhance the capability of the National Institute of
Transport to train personnel for the trucking indust:y and to improve
the data base, management and analysis of trucks and spare parts import
requirements and foreign exchange allocations with a view to increasing
the availability and performance of trucks.
II. Scope of Technical Services
2.        The project will provide the following technical assistance staff:
(i) a Project Coordinator and an Assistant for NTC;
(ii) four Trainer/Advisors to aid in improving the effectiveness of
four key personnel in each of five selected trucking companies,
these personnel being the General Manager, Chief Accountant,
Service Manager and Senior Mechanic;
(iii) four Instructors for the National Institute of Transport to
train trucking managers, accountants, mechanics and drivers,
and supplies managers; and
(iv) two Management Advisors to the Government to help improve the
system of import control for trucks and spare parts. The re-
quired qualifications and job descriptions of the individuals
are described below.
III. Qualifications and Job Descriptions
A. For Ministry of Communications and Transport
1. Project Coordinator
Qualifications
3.        The Project Coordinator should have at least 15 years experience in
the trucking industry, including some years as general manager of a trucking
company having at least 25 trucks, and should have particular experience in
recruitment of personnel and procurement of equipment. His background should
include reasonably detailed knowledge of accounting, workshop operations and



ANNEX 5
Page 3
scheduling of truck operations. Fluency in written and spoken English and the
ability to communicate ideas easily are also required.
Duties
4.        The Project Coordinator will report to the NTC and will assist and
advise NTC on all aspects of the project execution including but not limited
to:
(i) assisting NTC in recruiting and selecting suitable technical
assistance personnel for the five transport companies and NIT;
(ii)  reviewing and where necessary preparing procurement documents
for trucks, parts, workshop equipment, tools and teaching aids;
(iii) preparing and where others prepare reviewing proposals for
setting up Regional Transport companies and generally advising
on setting them up;
(iv)  reviewing plans and documents concerned with construction or
improvement of buildings required by trucking companies;
(v) reviewing proposals and documents for rehabilitation of trucks;
(vi)  identifying bottlenecks in the implementation of all aspects of
the project and initiating necessary action for their removal;
(vii) monitoring trucking operations of the five companies by periodi-
cally analyzing specific measures of performance prepared by
those companies;
(viii) preparing quarterly progress reports on accomplishments and prob-
lems concerning project activities in the NTC, five transport com-
panies, NIT and authorities concerned with imports of spare parts
and vehicles;
(ix)  assisting in establishing and implementing data and statistics
systems relating to the trucking industry size and performance
and for traffic and commodity flows; and
(x) advising the Government on matters related to trucking industry
policies, plans and programs.
Location
5.        The Project Coordinator will be stationed in Dar es Salaam and will
travel to the operating territories of the five transport companies as required.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
2. Assistant to Coordinator
Qualifications
6.        The Assistant should be a qualified mechanical engineer and have at
least eight years experience in the trucking industry including some years in
managerial positions. He should have particular experience in procurement of
trucks, spare parts and workshop equipment. Fluency in written and spoken
English and the ability to communicate ideas easily are also required.
Duties
7.        The Assistant will report to the Project Coordinator and will assist
the latter in carrying out his duties as shown above. In the conduct of his
work the Assistant will concentrate particular attention on items (ii) and
(v) in the above-listed duties.
Location
8.        The Assistant will be stationed in Dar es Salaam and will travel
to the operating territories of the five transport companies as required.
B. For Trucking Companies
1. Trainer/Advisor for General Manager
Qualifications
9.        The Trainer/Advisor for General Manager should have at least 15
years experience in the trucking industry including five years or more as
general manager of a trucking company having a fleet of at least 25 trucks.
His experience in the industry should reflect substantial involvement in
scheduling operations, accounting, rate-making, vehicle repair and marketing
of transport services. Fluency in written and spoken English and the ability
to communicate ideas easily are also required.
Duties
10.       The Trainer/Advisor for General Manager will report to the General
Manager of the trucking company to which he is assigned and will advise, train
and assist his counterpart in all aspects of company management including, but
not limited to:
(i) assist where necessary in setting up a Regional Transport
Company;



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(ii)  planning and implementing schedules for trucking operations;
(iii) procuring trucks, workshop equipment, tools, office equipment
and facilities;
(iv)  planning and implementing truck repair;
(v) monitoring and supervising of company operations;
(vi)  reviewing reports on company accounts and operating statistics;
(vii) marketing transport services including negotiation of acceptable
rates;
(viii)  train appropriate company personnel in door-to-door shipping
and forwarding operations;
(ix)  preparing reports on company operations for the owners of
the transport company;
(x) arranging for temporary augmentation of company fleet by
engaging privately-owned truck operators; and
(xi)  establishing pay and incentive systems for company per-
sonnel in line with parastatal regulations.
Location
11.       The Trainer/Advisor for General Manager will be stationed at the
headquarters of the Company to which he is assigned and will travel at times
within the operating territory of the transport company.
2. Trainer/Advisor for Chief Accountant
Qualifications
12.       The Trainer/Advisor for Chief Accountant should have suitable spe-
cialized training in the accounting field and at least eight years experience
as an accountant for a trucking firm(s) having a fleet of at least 25 trucks.
His experience should have involved the full range of accounting and statis-
tics work and included preparation of accounting reports appropriate for
managerial purposes. Fluency in written and spoken English and the ability to
communicate ideas easily are also required.
Duties
13.       The Trainer/Advisor for Chief Accountant will report to the Chief
Accountant of the trucking company to which he is assigned and will advise,



ANNEX 5
Page 6
train and assist his counterpart in all aspects of company accounting includ-
ing, but not limited to:
(i) assist where necessary in setting up a Regional Transport
Company;
(ii)  reviewing and revising as necessary the ccapany's system
of accounting;
(iii) supervising and training the chief accountant's subordinate
accounting personnel;
(iv) maintaining records and accounts;
(v) analyzing accounts, operating statistics and cash flow;
(vi) preparing financial statements and accounting reports;
(vii) preparing cost data required for rate making; and
(viii) developing budgets and assisting in long range financial
planning.
Location
14.       The Trainer/Advisor for Chief Accountant will be stationed at the
headquarters of the Company to which he is assigned and will travel at times
within the operating territory of the transport company.
3. Trainer/Advisor for Service Manager
Qualifications
15.       The Trainer/Advisor for Service Manager should have at least 15
years experience in the field of vehicle servicing including five or more
years as a service manager in a trucking company having a fleet of at least
25 trucks. His experience should have included several years work as a truck
mechanic and some years operation of a spare parts department. Fluency in
written and spoken English and the ability to communicate ideas easily are
also required.
Duties
16.       The Trainer/Advisor for Service Manager will report to the Service
Manager of the trucking company to which he is assigned and will advise, train
and assist his counterpart in all aspects of the company's service management
including, but not limited to:



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(i) planning and developing a suitable workshop facility and its
equipment and tools;
(ii) supervising and training the service manager's subordinate
personnel;
(iii) planning and operating a suitable spare parts division based
on sound principles of inventory control;
(iv) evaluating the condition and repair needs of existing fleet
units;
(v) preparing specifications for procurement of trucks, spare parts
and workshop equipment;
(vi) arranging for rehabilitation of selected trucks by external
workshops;
(vii) scheduling and conducting the repair of trucks in company
workshop; and
(viii)  preparing appropriate reports for the General Manager.
Location
17.       The Trainer/Advisor for Service Manager will be stationed at the
headquarters of the Company to which he is assigned and will travel at times
within the operating territory of the transport company.
4. Trainer/Advisor for Senior Mechanic
Qualifications
18.       The Trainer/Advisor for Senior Mechanic should have at least 10
years experience as a mechanic on trucks of generally comparable size and
type to those used for transport companies in Tanzania. His experience
should have included the full range of vehicle repairs and some years as
foreman or supervisor of truck repair work. Fluency in written and spoken
English and the ability to communicate ideas easily are also required.
Duties
19.       The Trainer/Advisor for Senior Mechanic will report to the Service
Manager of the trucking company to which he is assigned and will train the
various mechanics in the truck repair including, but not limited to:
(i) conducting truck inspections to determine vehicle condition
and repair requirements;



ANNEX 5
Page 8
(ii) performing running repairs on trucks;
(iii) undertaking repairs on truck bodies, power train, electrical
systems and miscellaneous equipment;
(iv) providing limited mechanical training to truck drivers; and
(v) providing driver training instruction to truck drivers.
Location
20.       The Trainer/Advisor for Senior Mechanic will be stationed at the
headquarters of the Company to which he is assigned and will travel at times
within the operating territory of the transport company.
C. For National Institute of Transport
1. Instructor for Trucking Managers
21.       The qualifications and duties of the Instructor for Trucking Managers
in the National Institute of Transport are the same as for the Trainer/Advisor
for General Manager (para. 9 and 10). The Instructor will be stationed in Dar
es Salaam and will from time to time travel to regional centers to conduct
brief training sessions.
2. Instructor for Accountants
22.       The qualifications and duties of the Instructor for Accountants in
the National Institute of Transport are the same as for the Trainer/Advisor
for Chief Accountant (para. 11 and 12). The Instructor will be stationed in
Dar es Salaam and will from time to time travel to regional centers to con-
duct brief training sessions.
3. Instructor for Mechanics and Drivers
23.       The qualifications and duties of the Instructor for Mechanics and
Drivers in the National Institute of Transport are the same as for the
Trainer/Advisor for Senior Mechanic (para. 15 and 16). The Instructor will
be stationed in Dar es Salaam and will from time to time travel to regional
centers to conduct brief training session.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
4. Instructor for Supplies Managers
24.       The qualifications of the Instructor for Supplies Managers in the
National Institute of Transport should include at least eight years experience
as a supplies manager for a trucking firm(s) having a fleet of at least 25
trucks. His experience should include some years experience in related work
in the trucking field. Fluency in written and spoken English and the ability
to communicate ideas easily are also required. The Instructor will conduct
training in all aspects of supplies management including, but not limited to,
the planning and operating of a suitable spare parts division of a trucking
company based on sound principles of inventory control. He will be stationed
in Dar es Salaam and will from time to time travel to regional centers to
conduct brief training sessions.
D. For Spare Parts and Vehicle Imports
1. Vehicle Imports Advisors (2)
Qualifications
25.       The Vehicle Imports Advisor should have at least 15 years experi-
ence in commercial activities concerning trucks and spare parts for trucks.
This experience should have included work involving assessing basic demand
for trucks and parts and managing parts inventory system in accordance with a
sound principle of inventory control. Fluency in written and spoken English
and the ability to communicate ideas easily are also required.
Duties
26.       The Vehicle Imports Advisor will report to an assigned counterpart
in the organization in which he is for the time being appointed and will
advise and train his assigned counterparts in those aspects of the Authority's
operations and management affecting the flow of trucks and spare parts for
trucks into and throughout Tanzania, including, but not limited to:
(i) establishing a sound system for collecting data on the
demand for truck spare parts, by principal types or
categories of parts;
(ii) assessing the basic demand for trucks and parts, by region,
category of the trucking industry and commodity;
(iii) determining the availability of trucks and parts, by region,
locality, commodity and distribution outlet;
(iv) analyzing the flow of trucks and parts through the dis-
tribution system to identify bottlenecks;



ANNEX 5
Page 10
(v) analyzing the suitability for Tanzania various truck types,
makes and sizes and advising the Government on its truck
standardization policy;
(vi) determining the total amount of foreign exchange that
should be allocated by the Bank of Tanzania for import of
trucks and truck spare parts over specified time periods;
(vii) preparing statements supporting the foreign exchange re-
quired for import of trucks and parts for trucks;
(viii) implementing changes in procedures to assure that the dis-
tribution of trucks and spare parts in the country is in
accordance with demand;
(ix) preparing quarterly progress reports for the authority
to which he is assigned and for the NTC; and
(x) assist in collecting general data on trucking industry
fleet and operations.
Location
27.       The Vehicle Imports Advisor will be stationed in Dar es Salaam and
will travel to various points within the country as required.
September 1977



ANNEX 6
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
National Institute of Transport Special Training Program for
Upgrading the Capabilities of Personnel in the Trucking Industry
1.        The National Institute of Transport (NIT) has a short term program
concerned with training for the motor transport industry of Tanzania.
It comprises short term (three-month courses) training for personnel already
employed in the industry who need upgrading of their capabilities. The
trucking industry project aims particularly to strengthen this program in Dar
es Salaam and to enlarge upon it by adding seminars or brief training sessions
at various regional centers throughout the country. The curriculum for the
three-month courses to be assisted under the project will be developed by the
NIT with assistance of the instructors to be provided.
2.        A second type of NIT training program, to be initiated in 1977
when student accommodations are completed, consists of relatively long term
training (three-year diploma) for school leavers and others seeking to prepare
themselves for employment in the industry.
September 1977



ANNEX 7
Page 1
TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indices
The following project monitoring indices will be applied during the
execution of the Trucking Industry Project:
Monitoring of five Trucking Companies:
1.   Kilometers operated per month by each vehicle and average
kilometers per vehicle operated by fleet;
2.   Average tons per vehicle per month between selected key points,
by direction of haul;
3.   Ton-kilometers operated per month by each vehicle and average
ton-kilometers per vehicle operated by fleet;
4.   Number of hours per month each vehicle was out of service
because of (a) mechanical defects (b) other causes (specify);
5.   Average operating speed (km per hour) between selected key
points;
6.   Number of hours per month each vehicle was employed in
operations;
7.   Ratio of truck payload to truck capacity for each vehicle in
month;
8.   Average loading and unloading times including waiting times for
trucks during month;
9.   Average hours per month each vehicle was under servicing for
(a) running repairs (b) other servicing;
10.   Average number of operational staff per vehicle per month;
11.   Revenue earned per vehicle per month;
12.   Operating expense per vehicle per month;
13.   Hours worked by operating personnel vs. potential working
hours per month;



ANNEX 7
Page 2
14.   Liters of fuel consumed by each vehicle per month;
15.   Ratio of fuel consumption to vehicle kilometers operated by
vehicle fleet during month;
16.   Ratio of operating expenses to operating revenue during
month;
17.   Total costs and total revenue during month;
18.   Ratios of various specific costs to total costs during month;
19.   Average revenue per ton-kilometer per month;
20.   Average operating expense per ton-kilometer per month;
21.   The ratio of current assets to current liabilities during
month;
22.   Ratio of gross revenue to capital during year;
23.   Ratio of long term debt to capital during year;
24.   Operating statement for quarter, month, year; and
25.   Balance Sheet at end of year.
Monitoring of NIT Training of Trucking Industry Personnel
1.   Number of courses conducted per year, by type of course;
2.   Number of trainees per course, per year, by type of course;
3.   Ratio of trainees to instructors, by type of course;
4.   Number of instructional hours per month and per year, by type
of course;
5.   Ratio of trainee drop-outs to trainee entrants in each type
of course;
6.   Attendance rate in each type of course;
7.   Number of field training sessions conducted per year;
8.   Number of attendees of field training sessions at each location;
9.   Number of field training session hours per month and per year;



ANNEX 7
Page 3
10.   Breakdown of trainees by category of industry represented
(publicly-owned, privately-owned corporations); and
11.   Examination or diploma performance.
Monitoring of Import Advisors
1.   Number of man-months of technical assistance provided per
quarter; and
2.   Number of man-months of counterpart work performed per quarter.
September 1977



TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Organization of Ministry of Communications and Transport
|MINISTER]
I
JUNIOR
|MINISTER
PRINCIPAL|
[SECRETARY
FPLANNING UNITNANCE AND ADMINISTRATION
SURFACE TRANSPORT       AIR TRANSPORT        SHIPPING DIVISION|       COMMNICATIONS         MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT|
|VSODIVISION                  DIVISION
Source: Ministry of Communications and Transport
10



TANZANIA
Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement Project
Organization of the National Transport Corporation
Ministry of Communications and Transport
fNational Transport Corporation
[ Director of Administration]
Ntional Institute   National Bus      rTanzania Coastal Ship ping Line, Ltd.|   Dar es Salaam Motor Transport Company|
ofTransport       .Service    | I                                             I  I
Note: National Road Haulage Company was also a subsidiary organization of NTC until the Company was dissolved in April,
1977
Source:   NTC, 1977



TANZANIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Organization of Trucking Companies to be Assisted
Board of Directors
|General Manager]|
[Vehicle Service|                          Tra ffic  ||Accounting and|
|Department   ||Department ||Costing Departmenti
Vehicle Repair    Stores               Marketing       Operations       Cashier       Accounting      Costing
Division      Division              Division        Division         Division       Division       Division
Source: Appraisal Mission



TANZIA
TRUCRING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Initial Implementation Schedule
---------------------------------------------- Months -------------------------------------------------
Component                         n         iv s            0        6       12       IR                30                 42       6&                         66
PROJECT .,.  .f...
COORDINATION      Retiaadffs.....                                                                              .~
PROJECT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eritadhire coordination saf   [ii
FIRST             Recruit and hire advisors                               u....                                    . .........                                             -  ......._
REGIONAL          Inspect & repair existing vehicles
TRANSPORT         Purchase new trucks
COMPANY (RTC)    Design, construct & equip buildings                         '11_     _         .:--
SECOND            Recruit and hire advisors                                                                    ...._ _    :1  ......  .
REGIONAL          Inspect & repair existing vehicles
TRANSPORT         Purchase new trucks
COMPANY (RTC)    Design, construct & equip buildings                                                                                                           -- -    - 
THIRD             Recruit and hire advisors                                                                ........         ...
REGIONAL          Inspect & repair existing vehicles                       _______
TRANSPORT         Purchase new trucks
COMPANY (RTC)    Design, construct & equip buildings                                                                                                  - - -  - - -
FOURTH            Recruit and hire advisors                                            _.............. -.                                                --
REGIONAL          Inspect & repair existing vehicles            .       __                                                               ___________j : __
TRANSPORT         Purchase new trucks
COMPANY (RTC)    Design, construct & equip buildings
FIFTN             Recruit and hire advisors                                                                        ......   .. . .__ ......
REGIONAL          Inspect & repair existing vehicles
TRANSPORT         Purchase new trucks
COMPANY (RTC)    Design, construct & equip buildings   i l
NATIONAL          Recruit & hire instructors                                                       .........  ....
INSTITUTE         Procure equipment & teaching aids
OF TRANSPORT      Prepare curriculum material                                               .      jj                                   i.
(NIT)_________________                                                                                                        -         I
SPARE PARTS       Recruit & hire technical assistance                                       ..........- . ...... ............
AND VEHICLE
IMPORTS           Issue licenses & import spare parts         .        :   :   :               E.                                       I
._ __  -  .  ,- :
1I



Chart 5
Page I
TANZMIA
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMNROVEMENT PROJECT
Implementation - Activities and ResDonsibilites
Recruiting Technical Assistance
7. Prepare draft
contract and                      10. Submit conformed
negotiation detailsa]                       copy to IDA
1. Draft Terms.2. Discuss and_.3. Contact sources _ 4. PFrepare-5. Review,                 6. Revie                   8. Negotiate_9  Sign                12. Teebnical
of Reference      agree on TOR      & iovite proposals      proposals      evaluate &      recommenda-                               contract              asistants
reco=end        tions                                            caart
11 Make local
Parrangent
RRCRUTfl4BN FOR!
Activity No.
NTC                       Regional Transport                                                         NIT                      Vehicle Imports
Companies                       Mobile Fleet                                                        Mvisor
1                    NTC                            NTC & RTC                          NTC                            NTC & NIT                       NTC
2                NTC & IDA                          NTC & IDA                          NTC, IDA                       NTC, NIT, IDA                   NTC, IDA
3,                   NTC                                NTC                            NTC                            NTC, NIT                        NTC
4.                   Firms                              Firms                          Firms                          Firms                           Firms
5                    NTC                            NTC & RTC                          NTC                            NTC, NIT                        NTC
6                    IDA                                IDA                            IDA                            IDA                              IDA
7                    NTC                            NTC & RTC                          ETC                            NTC, NIT                        NTC
8.                NTC & Firma                   NTC. RTC & Firma                       NTC & Firms                    NTC, NIT, Firms                 NTC & Firms
9                 NTC & Firms                       NTC & Firma                        NTC & Firms                    NIT & Firms                     NTC & Firms
10                    NTC                                NTC                            NTC                            NTC                             NTC
11                    NTC                            NTC & RTC                          WTC                            NTC & NIT                       NTC
12.                   Firms                             Firms                           Firms                          Firms                           Firms



CHART 5
TANZANIIA                                                             Page 2
TRUCKING INDUSTRY REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Implementation - Activities and Responsibilities
Operation of Trucking Companies
Define on-the job             Arrange and
training needa                implement traininl
[(NTC,RTC,NIT  1 -                 (RTC,NIT)
Review staff,      Draft new          Review           Zmplement        COG anies         Prepare        Review             Define          Implement
organization -    organization -     proposals         proposals  - operational           periodic   -  performance -       necessary       changes
& management.      & management       (NTC.IDA)           (RTC)            (RTC)          reports         (NTC, IDA)        changes           (RTC)
(NTC,RTC)       systemsj                                                                (RTC,NTC)                         (NTC,RTC)
(NTC,RTC)
Discuss            Prepare
& decide           detailed
Lreporting -              new manage-
requirements       ment systems
(NTC,RTC,IDA)        (NTC,RTC)
Rehabilitation of Existing Trucks
Negotiate with
private garagesg -
for repairs
ReiF          (NTC,RTC)
Review 
Inspect and assess       leport on             proposals for                         Mobilize labor           Repair
existing trucks _parts  and                    repair,disposal                        & order parts _        existing
(NTC,RTC)              labor required       & new trucks                           (NTC,RTC.Garages)        trucks
(NTC,RTC)           (NTC,RTC,IDA)                                                   (RTC,Garages)
Reclaim repair &                             I      Surplus parts
overhaul parts                               I     to stock
& components                                          (RTC)
(RTC)
See new truck             [        Dispose of
procurement                        unwanted trucks
and parts
(RTC)
New Truck Procurement
Draft
Cntract
(NTC,RTC)
Finalize        Deliver
Define number -Prepare specifi-_Review specifi-   -Call & receive                  ,Evaluate &           'Review _Negot ate          Contract -      Trucks
& types of new      cations and bid    cations and             bids                recommend         recommneda- (NTC,RTC)         & financing     (Contractor)
trucks              documents           documents              (NTC)                (NTC,RTC)           tions                      arrangements
(NTC,RTC)            (NTC,RTC)            (IDA)                                         j               (IDA)           |            (NTC,RTC)
I~~                                ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~ II
Prepare                       Despatch conformed
Review procurement           I                                                         egotiating                     copy to IDA
procedures                                                                             agenda                             (NTC)
(NTC, IDA)                                                                          (NTC,RTC)
Vehicle Repair Facilities
Draft
GontraC     c
(NTC,RTC)
I                    I            ~~~~~~~~~~~Finalize  Build,
Review buildings_Prepare plans,---Review specifi--Call & receive-Evaluate &                           .Review - egtiate-               Contract-deiver
& equipment         specifications      cations and            bids                recommend          recommenda- (NTC.RTC)       & financing        & install
requirements       ,& bid documents   documents                (NTC)               (NTC,RTC)            tions                     arrangements    (Contractor)
(NTC,RTC)_   _ _NTC,RTC)                 (IDA)                                       j                 (IDA)                       (NTC,RTC)
I   ~ ~ ~ rpaeI
Review procurement                                                                     Prepare                         espatch conformed
procedures                                                                          negotiating                       copies to IDA
(NTC,IDA)                                                                             agenda                               (NTC)
(NTC,RTC)
Truck Spare Parts Imports
(NTC,& SMC)    (NTC & SMC)           (IDA)              (IMPORTERS)
Review     _.  Decide on            Review             Art.nge
needs            allocations       allocations         procurement
L               Review p
vrocurement procedures
(NTC,SMC & IDA)






IBRD 12603
F VRARY IE7
JAQA L
S T :1-                   a- k-
lv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
?l<<bluwt~~~  0SSLA
Wi              gMAn             X                                                           n<'diaMn  7 -
h N i    g   +   /            8                   <             Kil~~~~~~~~~~             ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~osn  Mohoro   i
\   yi~ >   D! b2                                 cr                                   skm                       , [,,n;   
SO-~{Lrl 3                    /E  N4r  Mkongolos'
>                                t v y j                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nonguru ukuro
TRUCKING [NC9V$TRY PROJECT                                  K
Transpor_ <   At I tet1  llwo        L   5rk    v i
8 k  *f   t   B   1   .  _  _  M  L  .  i  A t r ,, ' ' ' W NcrwVmoW
TI    Moon  ORBS                sBr
SM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-A
A~~~~~~ORE./o
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii



